 Colonel Evans  did not venture to anticipate any definite or satisfactory declaration in the Speech which had been graciously delivered from the Throne. It was from time immemorial the character of such Addresses that they were vague, undefined, and incomprehensible, even as to the doctrines which they purported
 50 51 52 53 l 54 55 56 57 58 59 l l 60
 Mr. Ruthven  lamented, that his Majesty's Speech should be made the channel for the conveyance of sentiments so repugnant to the feelings of a numerous body of the subjects of this realm. The desire for the Repeal of the Union was so deeply implanted in the breasts of the people of Ireland, that it could not now be easily repressed. The question of Repeal would come before a tribunal which had already prejudged it, and would, no doubt, be thrown out by the same noisy majority which carried the Coercion Bill. The conduct of the Parliament during the last Session had made more Repealers than
 99
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he rose to adopt a course different to any pursued by the hon. Members who had preceded him. He had a motion to present, in rising to make which he could not help congratulating the House on the unusual course displayed by the mover and seconder of the Address. They had had two exceedingly noble and temperate speeches, full of information, and replete with matter, which produced admiration for the talent of the speakers, and conviction of the truth of their various statements. The holiday speech, and the schoolboy declamation, that generally re-echoed the Speech from the Throne, he was glad to see was all at an end; there was but one improvement
 84 l 85 in futuro 86 l 87 l l l l l 88 89 90 91 92
 Mr. Ruthven  seconded the Amendment.
 Mr. Baring  concurred with what had been stated on all sides as to the importance of keeping up a good understanding between this country and France. No one could value the advantages of such an understanding more highly than he did. At the same time it was his decided opinion, that the maintenance by this country of a good understanding with France was by no means inconsistent with the maintenance of a good understanding with the other countries of Europe. Was not the noble Lord, then, aware that all those other countries charged us not only with working against them ourselves, but of uniting with France, our ally, in working against them? There never existed in the history of the world a more complete feeling of disgust, jealousy, and aversion, than that which was in consequence entertained by those states against this
 106 107 de facto 108
 Mr. Littleton  said, that it appeared to him, that the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down had given proofs in his Speech, that he was imbued not a little with the spirit of that old woman to whom he had referred at the commencement of his harangue. He was not sufficiently
 93 94 l 95 96
 Mr. Robinson  observed, that he had heard the statement of the hon. Seconder (the member for Ipswich) concerning the prosperity of the manufactures, commerce, and trade of the country, with considerable astonishment; and he hoped the House would bear with him for a very few minutes, while he ventured upon an explanation which appeared necessary by the
 74 75 76 77
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said: It is impossible to agree to the Address, not only on account of what it says, but what it omits to say. There is no relief promised—there is a very indistinct and unintelligible statement as to tithes—and there are portentous threats, angry language, and ominous expressions of renewed coercion. It might be supposed that the Act of last year, its violence in the outset—its failure in the operation—would have been sufficient to stop them. We told the House it would fail; we told the Ministers, that in order to put down a few disturbers of the peace in the Queen's County, and the adjacent ones, it was not necessary to suspend the Constitution. The measure had nothing on which to operate; the people became quiet from other causes. The repetition of a tithe law, and the Million Bill—these, and not the Coercion Bill, appeased the people. Still there is much disquiet, much agitation; and the Minister comes forward again, and, in another Speech, fulminates from the Throne denunciations against the people. I ask, what Minister dictated the words his Majesty has just used? Who was audacious enough to suggest them, and weak enough to advise their adoption? Who is the junior Minister, who, in the excess of his imprudence, superseding the senior and sober Members, invades the office of Prime Minister, and forces the introduction of the expressions that have fallen from the King? Are the Ministers aware of what is said when they make the King declare that his Irish subjects have drawn down upon themselves his "just indignation"—that our Royal master is indignant with his people, and that his anger is not only great but "just?" His faithful subjects in Ireland have now to dread the consequences that are attendant upon his just indignation; and this from the father of his people Sir, in all the Royal Speeches I have read, no such expressions as these occur—not at the period of 1782, not of 1792—not at the period of 1775. His Majesty then expressed his regret and concern at the conduct of the colonies; it was not until they resorted to force that he indulged the plenitude of his wrath. His Majesty speaks of disaffection to the State. Sir, I assert, that his Irish subjects are not disaffected; the King has been misinformed; there exists no disaffection
 78 79 80 81 82
 Mr. Warburton  seconded the Motion.
 Mr. Morrison  said, that in rising to second the Address which had been moved by his hon. friend, he felt that it would be unnecessary for him to occupy much of the time of the House in going over the same ground, or in touching at all upon many of the topics which it embraced, and to which his hon. friend had addressed himself so well and in a manner so satisfactory to the House. He should, therefore, restrict himself to certain parts of the Speech with which his own practical information rendered him, best acquainted. He concurred entirely in all that his hon. friend had said, especially on the subject of West-India Slavery, and he was sure that the country would observe with delight the prospect held forth by the speech, that that long-disputed subject was likely to be arranged so happily. It was most gratifying also to him to know from the same source that all the complicated questions, some of which had undoubtedly presented very great difficulties, connected with our foreign relations, were in a progressive state of adjustment, and that his Majesty's Government, notwithstanding the difficulties of the subject, had been enabled to preserve to this country the inestimable blessings of peace. That gratification, too, was much increased in his mind by knowing that this state of things had been brought about under the cordial co-operation of his Majesty's Government with the government of France. He trusted it would not be considered out of place if he here ventured upon an expression of his cordial hope that the political union of the two countries might soon be followed by a more liberal and extensive commercial intercourse, which must tend so greatly to the benefit of the people of each. With respect to the inquiries directed under his Majesty's Commission, and especially that relating to Municipal Corporations, he believed that that inquiry, and the manner in which it had been conducted, had given the greatest satisfaction, and afforded proof that his Majesty's Government had no intention to protect abuse wherever it might be found to exist, but to give to the public a proper control over their own property and funds, and a security
 40 41 l l l l d d s s d s d 42 d l l 43 l l 44 l l l l s l l l l 45 46 47 48 49
 Mr. Hume  said, it was not his intention to follow the example of the mover of the Address in the course he had pursued in addressing the House. He considered, that the duty which they had that night to perform was, to look at those measures which they could gather it to be his Majesty's Ministers' intention to bring forward in the course of the Session. They were to look to the Speech delivered by his Majesty that day from the Throne, and from it to judge what were the intentions of Ministers. If the Ministers had, with the Reformed Parliament, carried into execution a proposition which they themselves made while they were in opposition—that of printing the Speech, and circulating it among the Members twenty-four hours before it came to be discussed,—then the Members would be able to do themselves
 61 62 l 63 64 l 65 66 67 68 "Little things are great to little men;" 69 70
 Mr. Hume  then moved, after the words, in reply to that part of His Majesty's Speech in which he says, "It has been the constant aim of my policy to secure to my people the uninterrupted enjoyment of the blessings of peace," the following words be inserted:—"And this House pledges itself to cause such reductions to be made in all the civil, military, and naval expenditure of the country as shall bring home to all his Majesty's subjects, by immediate and large reductions of taxation, the practical advantages and blessings of that continued peace which, this House rejoices to learn, is not likely to be disturbed." The hon. Member stated it was not his intention to trouble the House with a second division, but merely to place his sentiments upon record.
 Mr. Hesketh Fleetwood  said, the terms of the Address were vague and unsatisfactory; they had already caused much desultory conversation in the House, and were, therefore, productive of loss of time to the public. With so many notices on the book as 134, and those accumulating every day, unless the time of the House were more economized the business of the nation must stand still. He only thus briefly alluded to those topics, as otherwise he should be guilty of the offence which he felt it his duty to denounce in others. He should confine himself to noticing the allusion that had been made to the present prosperity of trade, which it was said had improved to the extent of thirty per cent generally; but the hand-loom weavers, it would appear, were an exception to that rule, the advance with them extending only to ten per cent. Being returned for a place where hand-loom weavers were numerous, he thought himself entitled to observe, that assuming the fact to be as stated, it still evinced no great advance in the condition of manufacturers, at least so far as they were concerned; for ten per cent, though large on great capitals, was as nothing to the poor man—it did not amount to 1 s
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that he should feel it necessary to propose a distinct Amendment. He felt that the Address contained a great deal of what he could not call falsehood, because he supposed the term was not allowable, but certainly it alleged as true many things which were untrue. It stated, that they concurred with his Majesty in lamenting the continuance of distress amongst the proprietors and occupiers of land, and then went on to say, that they concurred with his Majesty that the state of the country, as regarded its internal tranquillity, and its commerce, and manufactures, afforded the most encouraging prospects of progressive improvement.
 97 98
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that with a few qualifications, he was happy to be enabled to concur in the Address which had been moved. These qualifications were not very important, bat, to avoid misconstruction, it was his duty to state them. With the greater part of the Address he found no fault; indeed, with the exception of that part of it which referred to the agitation and excitement prevailing in Ireland, by which it was attempted to promote the Repeal of the Union—with the exception of that part, he must be a fastidious man who could object to an Address which neither contained an opinion, nor gave a pledge. For himself, he fully concurred in the feelings of regret and indignation expressed at the agitation for the Repeal of the Union; and with that portion of the Address he most fully and cordially agreed. He rejoiced to hear that it was the intention of those who supported Repeal to submit that great question to a full and fair discussion. He rejoiced at this, because he believed, that if sound reason prevailed, nothing would be more easy than to show that ever since the union with Ireland, the disposition of England towards her sister country was, to deal out impartial justice; nothing also would be more easy than to show that the consequences of a Repeal would involve a separation of the two countries, either immediate or protracted only by a long, disastrous, and perhaps fatal conflict. He approved of the general policy of avoiding, in a King's Speech, the introduction of subjects which were likely to provoke any violent differences of opinion. He had always wished to see the Speech framed in such a manner as, without any violence to individual feelings, or sacrifice of political principles, should insure unanimity at least on the first day of the Session. As far, therefore, as the Speech avoided any provocation to the discussion of measures in detail, or calling for any distinct pledge as to the measures to be proposed, so far did he concur in the policy by which it had been dictated. Having had himself some experience in framing these documents, he he most confess his admiration of the dexterity which had contrived to put in the Speech so many words meaning nothing.
 100 "True, no meaning puzzles more than wit." 101 102 de facto 103 104
 Lord Althorp , after the speech of the
 71 72 73
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that he should not have risen, but for the qualifications of the right hon. Baronet, which, particularly those relating to foreign policy, almost amounted to a dissent from the Address; and he could not pass over them in silence without, in some measure, appearing to sanction them. The right hon. Baronet expressed his surprise at the negociations respecting Belgium not being yet concluded. He could only say it was much to be regretted, but a convention had been signed in May last, which placed the two countries in such a relative situation towards each other, that the signatures of a definitive treaty became of very little consequence as far as the stability of the arrangement, and the peace of Europe were concerned. The right hon. Baronet's charge, that the civil war in Portugal had been fostered and protracted by this country, had already been repeatedly answered. Ministers, however, were now, it appeared, accused of thereby creating a civil war in Spain. But, every person who regarded the events of the Peninsula with an impartial eye, must perceive that the war in Spain, arose from causes within Spain herself, and by no means flowed out of that which prevailed in Portugal. But it was said, that a time had arrived at which it was the duty of his Majesty's Government to acknowledge Don Miguel. He should like to ask the right hon. Baronet, when this particular time had come to pass. The last Administration continued in office two years and a-half after Don Miguel had usurped the Crown. If, therefore, a lapse of time were alone sufficient to have rendered it imperative on the Government of the country to acknowledge Don Miguel, why did not the last Government acknowledge him? And why seek to throw on the present Administration the odium of acknowledging a usurper, whom the right hon. Baronet and his colleagues were ashamed to recognize. The right hon. Baronet appeared to attach very little importance to the maintenance of the Turkish Empire as it now stood. He differed much from the right hon. Baronet. It was, in his opinion,
 105
 Mr. O'Connell  declared, that the mea-sure of last Session was one of robbery, of injustice, and cruelty; and miserably de-fended by such evidence as that which had just been adduced by the right hon. Secretary for Ireland. That right hon. Gentleman had favoured the House with a statement of the decrease of outrages in the county of Kilkenny, but nothing could be more fallacious; and he would refer the; right hon. Gentleman to a more happy instance of the decrease of crime in another part of Ireland. The county of Clare had been the scene of disturbance, much more violent and extensive than the county of Kilkenny. The county of Clare had been tranquillized—and how? Not by means of Coercion Law. Two Special Commissions had been issued, and by these constitutional proceedings, the disturbances had been quelled. The right hon. Secretary for Ireland boasted of a de-crease of cases of outrage in the county of Kilkenny, to the amount of eight hundred and odd out of 1,072; but he was happy to tell the House, that in the county of Clare, the decrease of disturbances had been seven to one greater than in Kilkenny; in fact, there was no appearance of outrage left, though no Coercion Act had been applied to it. He was prepared to show by the returns, that such had been the case. The question was, whether the Coercion Act had worked well or ill? The right hon. Secretary had given an opinion in its favour, but not till he had been asked to speak on the subject. In the last Session the right hon. Secretary was
 118 119
 Mr. O'Connell  continued: He then came to a different subject. The attention of the House having been called to the Coercion Bill, he would take this opportunity of alluding to a circumstance which was connected with it. It had been publicly stated that votes had been procured in support of that measure in a manner so disreputable, as to be scarcely within the bounds of belief; but he did not wish Ministers to suppose that he believed the part which was attributed to them in the transaction. A statement, however, had been published in the newspapers,
 120 Non meus hic sermo 121
 Mr. O'Connell : I am astonished at the noble Lord's statement. "The noble Lord is shrinking—why not state the names of those Members?"
 Mr. O'Connell : I retract the word
 122
 Mr. O'Connell : I am authorised by every Irish Member [ Oh! oh! "No!"
 Mr. O'Connell  hoped that the House would bear with him and his friends, and that every man who valued his character would aid them in endeavouring to prevent equivocation on the subject.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he must observe that the question before the House was a public one, inasmuch as it concerned deeply the constituency of Ireland to know whether any of their representatives had behaved in the manner described. The noble Lord had satisfactorily replied to the question put by himself and another Irish Member, but other Members, and amongst them his hon. friend, the member for Tipperary, (Mr. Sheil) had been interrupted when they rose to propose the same question to the noble Lord. His hon. friends had constituents who were deeply interested in their character, and therefore he pressed the noble Lord to be more explicit. He asked whether there was a single Scotch or English Member who would be content to rest under the imputation which had been cast upon some Irish Members? Was it anything but fair to ask that the guilty should be detected, and that those who were innocent should have the opportunity of freeing themselves from imputation? The noble Lord had said "more than one" Irish Member, who had voted and spoken against the Bill, had made the statement referred to. An opportunity of clearing themselves had been given to some two or three, but why should not the same indulgence be extended to all on whom the imputation had been cast? He thought that, in justice, the House could not refuge them the opportunity. The hon.
 124
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that after what had just passed he felt it his duty to the hon. and learned member for Hull (Mr. Hill) and to himself, to take the earliest opportunity of publicly retracting the language he had used towards that hon. Member. In the belief that for the whole of the allegations made by that hon. Member, and for which he had refused to give up his authority, there was no foundation, and conceiving it meant to throw imputations on all those Irish Members who had opposed the Coercion Bill, he had used very strong language in speaking of him. He now publicly tendered to him his retractation of all he had said; and he offered to give it in the House or out of it, for he now fully admitted that the hon. and learned Member was justified in what he had asserted. He was sorry that he had used any such language, and he begged the hon. and learned Member's pardon. As to the other part of the charge, which involved some other Irish Members, he would say nothing. He would leave the matter to those Members themselves who felt themselves aggrieved by it. Having said thus much, he would only state further, with respect to the Amendment which he had moved, that it was not his intention to take the sense of the House upon it, or on the Address generally. He would content himself with his simple negative.
 Mr. Hill  said, that it so happened that he had unguardedly made use of words at a public meeting at Hull, which, being without premeditation, did not make any great impression on him till his attention was drawn to them by the sensation they created. Upon this he looked into the published reports of his speech given in the newspapers. He found three reports published which differed materially from each other; and though he could not trust entirely to his memory as to the exact expressions used, he thought he could confidently say, that his words were not those stated. As far as he remembered, the words were these:—That he had been informed that a Member of Parliament (he
 128 129
 Mr. O'Connell  was happy to have the high authority of the Speaker for what was passing in his own mind. He could not but think it would be unbecoming that this subject should pass without a public investigation; and he, therefore, hoped, that he should be allowed to bring forward, to-morrow, as the first business of the day, a Motion for the appointment of a Committee of Investigation; and he accordingly now gave notice of that intention. He was sure that no one could be
 130
 Colonel Evans  understood the noble Lord to have said, that some Members had spoken differently in private from what they had expressed as their opinions in public. Now, these words did not impute a very serious degree of impropriety in any man, if no further explanation were given of them, or if not in direct contradiction to his public acts.
 Sir Francis Burdelt  fully coincided with the suggestion of the Speaker. The adoption of that suggestion was necessary to preserve the freedom of discussion; and he (Sir F. Burdett) should move, that the House acquiesce in the suggestion of the Speaker, and that the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) and the learned Member (Mr. Sheil) should be put under restraint.
 Mr. John Stanley  put it to the hon. and learned Member to consider whether it was at all likely to clear his honour from the charge by fastening the responsibility on the noble Lord. Surely it would be much better to have the matter thoroughly investigated than to press the responsibility upon the noble Lord, to whom the question had been put as a Minister.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  was convinced that the whole of the present conversation arose out of a misunderstanding on the part of the hon. and learned Member, of the sense in which his noble friend had used the word responsibility. It was, he believed, evident to almost every Member in that House that nothing personally offensive had been intended. The question put to his noble friend was this—"Did you or did you not hear such a report?" He replied that he had heard it from parties worthy of credit—that he believed them; that the matter, however, must rest with him, for that he should not go further, and make public the source whence he had derived his information. Now, if saying that was to be esteemed an act of personal provocation, he confessed himself unable to comprehend how public affairs could be carried on. With all possible respect for the feelings of the hon. and learned Gentleman, he must be allowed to say, that after it was so evident that his noble friend was perfectly unconscious of offensive tendency in the language be had used, and when all the Members of that House who spoke upon the subject were also of opinion that it was free of offence, the hon. Member scarcely could be warranted in not coming forward and frankly declaring that he had no intention of following up the matter further.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, it was quite clear that it was the noble Lord who ought first to be called upon to give an assurance to the House that he would be a party to no proceedings out of it.
 Mr. Ruthven  complained that little encouragement was given to Irishmen to speak whilst people made noises, which were perfectly discreditable on the present occasion; for whilst they were talking of responsibility, there was no responsibility to be incurred which could equal the want of courtesy evinced by certain anonymous
 139
 Mr. Halcombe  thought it was the duty of the noble Lord, before the hon. and learned Member was called upon to give
 141
 Mr. Hill  wished, before the Speaker rose, to say one word in reply to the observations just made by the hon. and learned member for Drogheda. Every syllable of what he had stated to his constituents at Hull, he had heard—he believed at the time—he still believed. He was willing, as he had already offered, to give his best exertions for having the matter placed in a train for inquiry; and if, on the termination of that inquiry, it should turn out that he had been misinformed, he pledged himself, without adopting the precise expressions used by the hon. and learned member for Drogheda, to adopt their meaning to the fullest possible extent, and, as far as was in his power, to visit his informant with the punishment his deception would then so imperatively call for.
 Mr. O'Counell :—Simply that I entertain a deep sense of the injustice done to my hon. and learned friend; that I am penetrated with the sentiment, that he is not getting fair play. I have ever entertained a strong abhorrence—every one who hears me will admit that I have reason to do so—to the practice of duelling; but there never was a stronger instance of the injustice and absurdity of what were called the laws of honour than the present. True, the noble Lord has received no offence, but he has given one. The noble Lord has pledged himself, as easily he might, that he will not send my hon. and learned friend a hostile message; but has he pledged himself that he will not respond to a challenge? The answer given by the noble Lord was in point of fact a mere delusion, and yet the House was content with it. Until the noble Lord pledged himself not to respond to any proceedings out of the walls of Parliament, I must say, that the noble Lord, equally with my hon. and learned friend, has declined complying with the Call of the House.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  rose, and spoke as follows:—Mr. Speaker,—it is not my intention, Sir, to offer any observation, or to renew in any shape whatever, any discussion upon the merits of the question which has so long and so painfully been under the consideration of this House upon the present evening. I am, Sir, the bearer of a communication, which I trust will give the same satisfaction to this honourable House, which it has unfeignedly given to me and to our mutual friends. Sir, my noble friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), whose conduct was under the review of this House this evening, felt that he had done as much, and that he had gone as far as he could fairly be called upon to go, when he had stated to the House, that he was willing to enter into an engagement, that, in consequence of what had passed, he would take no active steps in the affair whatever. The House, in its wisdom, had judged this not to be sufficient, and looking to the exercise of its authority, and the vindication of its dignity, in the enforcement of its own
 147
 Mr. Hill  said, it was his anxious wish to place himself under the guidance of the House. If the Speaker thought it right that he should make to the House such an assurance as the hon. member for the University of Dublin alluded to, he should most certainly feel bound to obey the call of the right hon. Gentleman.
 Lord John Russell  coincided with the Speaker in thinking that the privileges of debate would be injured if this question, and such questions as it, were not kept within the jurisdiction of the House. He hoped that, the House would insist, that both the noble Lord and the hon. and learned Member should either tacitly or expressly agree—and that in a manner which could leave no doubt of their meaning—that they should not carry the question beyond the walls of the House.
 Colonel Leith Hay  thought, that a more injudicious course to himself, than that which the hon. and learned Gentleman
 137
 Mr. O'Dwyer  thought, if the authority of the House was to be appealed to, in restraining his hon. and learned friend from adopting such measures as in his judgment might appear most fitting for the vindication of his character, while at the same time the noble Lord was to be left free and unshackled, they were bound in justice to impress on the noble Lord the propriety of retracting one expression which he had made use of. He (Mr. O'Dwyer) understood the noble Lord to say, that he fully believed the statement of his informant [ "No, no." Sheil: 142
 Mr. Littleton  rose to reply to the question put to him by the hon. member for Kilkenny, as to whether there had existed any connexion of political feeling with the outrages complained of in Ireland? His reply would be decidedly in the affirmative. The tone and character which these political discussions had assumed, was such as to excite the people to a very general resistance to the laws. The hon. member for Kilkenny had made allusion to the working of the Coercion Bill. For the satisfaction of the hon. Member, and of the House, he would beg to read a comparative statement of the stale of crime, and the numerical amount of outrages in the county of Kilkenny, at two distinct periods of time. He had compared the returns for seven months
 117 
 
 For 7 months previous. For 7 months after. 
 Burglaries 428 62 
 Burnings 30 9 
 Injury to cattle 34 5 
 Assaults by Whitefeet 151 34 
 Illegal notices 127 27 
 Injury to property 44 24 
 Firing with intention to kill 17 3
 Mr. Shaw  begged to suggest to the Speaker the propriety of calling on the member for Hull to make the same assurance to the House as had been required from the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) and the hon. and learned member for Tipperary.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, that as one of those interested, he claimed the right to offer a few words. This was a charge brought by one Member of Parliament against another, appearing first in a report of a speech in a newspaper. He would suggest that the House, in order to be able to take cognizance and to go fully into the inquiry, should in the first instance have the statement itself before them. There were precedents for this in Hatsell—cases were there mentioned in which individuals, not members of Parliament, had been called before the House to answer for certain allegations made against Members of the House. He would refer to cases upon record; those, for example, of the Earl of Suffolk, the Bishop of Lincoln, and the Archdeacon of Bath. In these cases committees had been appointed. The same course ought now to be followed. They ought to have the printer or publisher of the paper in which the statement first appeared, or they ought to call on the individual whose statement it was represented to be, if he chose to acknowledge it. It was of the utmost importance to the character of many Members in that House, that the individual who had been described as having gone to Ministers or their friends, and recommended them to support the Bill which he himself was at the same moment publicly opposing, should be known, if in fact any such person existed; for there could be no doubt that to some such influence it was owing that many English Members who had promised to oppose the Bill had afterwards voted for it. He felt it necessary to say that there were thirty or forty English Members who had declared to him that they would vote against the Bill. They stated that they did not choose to communicate with Mr. O'Connell, for that they thought his politics too severe. He had a list with the names of many of those Members whom he met
 125
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, he was persuaded that every Member of the House must feel that the noble Lord was restrained by a high sense of honour from disclosing the name of his informant; but, on the other hand, the hon. and learned Member had solemnly asserted that the statement vouched for by the noble Lord was false and foul. Under these circumstances, it was a difficult matter to say how the House could interfere without imposing a restraint on the honour of one party or the other. But the proposition of the hon. Baronet appeared to him to be perfectly just, with this condition, that there should be a full inquiry. Let the hon. and learned Member have that assurance from the House. He, therefore, would second the Motion of the hon. Baronet, with that addition.
 Mr. Abercromby  expressed his regret at the circumstance which had given rise to this discussion, but he hoped that the House of Commons would not shrink from the prosecution of its duty. He hoped they would not separate until they should have taken such effectual means as should prevent any such consequences as those which were likely to arise if the matter were allowed to remain as it then stood. The hon. and gallant Officer seemed to think, that a necessary condition in the present case must be, that an inquiry should be proposed, and a Committee appointed. Now he would object to the House being clogged with any such proceedings; for even if such Committee were appointed, he should still say it was not necessary to fix this as a condition upon which the House should rest. He objected to a Committee, as it would decidedly be a novel mode of proceeding, and before he should be prepared to grant inquiry, he must have time for reflection, but at the present time he was not prepared to come to a conclusion. With regard to the hon. and learned Gentleman, he was sure that no person who had taken a part in this discussion, was disposed to do anything which should be inconsistent with his honour. It was perfectly clear that, whether the Members concerned voluntarily gave their assurances that the matter should not go further, the necessary restraint must be imposed upon them. He would submit to the House, whether the House should not adopt the suggestion of the hon. Baronet, the member for Westminster, for the purpose of settling the matter in question.
 Mr. Fielden  seconded the Motion.
 Mr. Hardy  agreed with the hon. Baronet (Sir Francis Burdett) in thinking, that if the House found it necessary to take any step, the proceeding should bear equally on the noble Lord and the hon. and learned Member. But he thought that the situation in which the hon. and learned Member was placed was one of great cruelty. A communication had been made to the noble Lord affecting the hon. and learned Gentleman's character; and when the noble Lord was asked for the author, his reply was, no, he would give no name, but would take the responsibility on himself. This communication somehow or other found its way to the hon. member for Hull, and was by him made public; and, therefore, he concluded that the hon. and learned Member had a full right to a complete investigation. With respect to the alleged machinery said to be used by the Government to gain votes, he must say he could not credit it. It appeared to him impossible. But he repeated that the position of the hon. and learned Member was a cruel one. On the one hand, the noble Lord vouched for an assertion affecting deeply the character of the hon. and learned Member; on the other hand, the hon. and learned Member solemnly declared that the assertion was false and foul. When the noble Lord was asked for his authority, the reply was, no, he took the responsibility on himself; and yet the House required the hon. and learned Member not to take any steps without its jurisdiction. That was a course the House ought not to take without resolving on inquiry.
 Mr. Hume  rose to second the Motion. He had given his vote with great pain; but he had felt that there was no alternative but to support the rules and regulations of the House. The manner in which the noble Lord had yielded to the wishes of the House must add to his high character.
 Mr. Hume  stated, that in consequence of what had passed, he and other friends of the hon. and learned member for Tipperary (Mr. Sheil) had communicated with that Gentleman; and he had the satisfaction to state on the part of his hon. and learned friend, that he felt anxious to show his respect for the orders of the House, and that, without giving any opinion upon the subject which had led to the situation he was then in, he had come to the determination of submitting implicitly to their wishes. He, together with the other friends of the hon. and learned Gentleman, had stated to him that by adopting this course, so far from acting in a manner derogatory to his character as a man of honour, he would be taking the most effectual means of supporting it, and placing it in a higher and more worthy station than before. In following the advice tendered to him by his friends the hon. and learned Gentleman was actuated solely by a spirit of obedience to the orders of that House, which it was, upon all occasions, the duty and the interest of every Member individually to uphold. He moved, "That Richard Lalor Sheil,
 149
 Mr. Hume  rose to order. On a former
 123
 Mr. Sheil : Tell us the name of our accuser.
 Mr. Sheil  said, the noble Lord had, in answer to questions put by his hon. and learned friend, and put at his (Mr. Sheil's) instance, stated two circumstances. The noble Lord stated, that no communication had been made in support of the Bill to the Cabinet, or to any Minister of the Cabinet, by any Irish Member who had spoken and voted against it. The noble Lord had also said, that not only had no communication been made to the Cabinet by any Irish Member who had voted and spoken strongly against the Bill, but that no such communication, with a recommendation that the Bill should be passed, had been transmitted by any such Irish Member. He repeated those statements of the noble Lord, that he might be set right if he had misunderstood him, and for the purpose of showing that, whatever might be the nature of the charge against one or more Irish Members on this subject, it had now taken a shape quite different from its original form. The original charge was, that an Irish Member, who had spoken violently and voted against the Bill, had gone to Ministers and recommended that it should be persevered
 126
 Mr. Sheil  was in the House, but did not answer to the call. After the lapse of a few minutes,
 Mr. Sheil  said, surely the House must see the peculiar predicament in which he was placed by these preliminary proceedings (for such he might term them). The
 133 134
 Mr. Sheil  repeated, that he could give no such assurance as that required. He did not feel that the House had any right to make the demand. With respect to the meaning he attached to the word
 136
 Mr. Sheil  said: "Will not disclose."
 Mr. Sheil : He said so.
 Mr. Sheil  said, that the preliminary in-
 132
 Mr. Sheil  said, this was not a case for diplomacy. When the noble Lord mentioned that he would not name his informant, he added, that he would take upon himself the responsibility. Now he (Mr. Sheil) charged the noble Lord's informant with falsehood in alleging; that he had expressed himself favourable to the Coercion Bill, and the noble Lord took upon himself the responsibility.
 Mr. Sheil , who had resumed his seat on putting the question to the noble Lord, remained in it for some moments; at length he rose and said: "Having heard the statement which the noble Lord has just made to the House, I beg on the other hand to declare in the face of my country, and if I may say so without irreverence, in the
 127
 Mr. Sheil  said, that the noble Lord, at the outset of his declaration, had referred to a private conversation, and stated, without being called upon, and by anticipation, and before he was asked any question on that subject, that he took upon himself the responsibility—that he stood as the Representative of the person who alleged the truth of the statement [" No, no.!
 Mr. Sheil : Or communicated in any way whatever. He did beg that the noble Lord would give a decisive answer. He had understood the noble Lord to add, that some Irish Members [An  Hon. Member
 Mr. Cobbett  said, the sort of proceeding which had been often alluded to, he for his part held in very great contempt. He thought the hon. and learned Member had been very hardly dealt with. The case was simply this:—A man goes into a company and he says, "I am informed that one of you stole a horse, but will not tell you my authority. I take the responsibility on myself." Well, one of the company says, "Am I the man you charge with stealing the horse?" The accuser replies, "Yes, you are." To which the retort is, "You lie." Well, then, the person who brought the charge must bear all the responsibility.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, he objected to that paragraph which spoke of agricultural distress. For his own part he could not reconcile those conflicting statements, that great distress existed amongst the agricultural classes, and that tranquillity prevailed
 109 110 111 l. l. 112 113 s 114
 Mr. Finn  wished to say a few words to the House upon that part of the Address which related to the alleged disturbances in Ireland, and the operation of the Coercion Bill, of which Ministers boasted so much. That was a most unconstitutional measure, directed against the rights of his much-injured and much-misrepresented country. He would like that the right hon. Secretary for Ireland should give him some account of the application of the secret service money in the county (Kilkenny) which he had the honour to represent in that House, in order to see how far this very secret service money had been influential in creating the alarm, if not the reality, of the disturbances complained of. Nine-tenths of those disturbances had their origin in this fruitful source of bribery and corruption. A system of espionage amongst the lowest underlings in and about office, disgraceful in a civilized nation, had been complained of, and justly complained of, in England; but he would venture to affirm, that for one spy in England, there were to be found twenty in Ireland; and yet no exertion was made to put a stop to so abominable a system. They were told that Ireland was disturbed, and that England was enjoying tranquillity. Now, with the single exception of the crime of murder,
 116
 Mr. Finn : Am I one?
 The Speaker  was certain, that upon a moment's reflection, the House would see the difficult situation in which they would be placed if this discussion were continued in the spirit and manner in which it had commenced. He deeply regretted that the noble Lord had felt it his duty to answer the questions which had been proposed to him. Any person acquainted with the rules of the House must be aware that even subjects infinitely less calculated to excite the feelings of the public and of individuals could not be dealt with by them unless they assumed a public character, and were brought before them as questions of privilege, being defamatory of a Member or Members. He put it to the House whether what a Member had said out of the House or in private could assume such a character as to form the basis of public discussion?
 The Speaker  was sure the House felt with him, that the longer the present discussion was persevered in, they were only
 143 144
 The Speaker  said, he certainly understood the noble Lord to pledge himself, that he would not out of the walls of that House, himself either originate proceedings upon the matter in dispute, or respond to any proceedings emanating from the hon. and learned member for Tipperary. To that extent he conceived himself to have been charged by the House—to that extent he meant to call upon the hon. and learned member for Tipperary—to that extent he meant also to call upon the noble Lord—to that extent he understood the noble Lord's answer to go; and, unless he contradicted him, he would still presume, that it was to that extent the noble Lord had pledged himself to the House. He now called upon the noble Lord to say, whether he had been right or wrong in his supposition?
 The Speaker  begged to remind hon. Members, that they had come to a mere point of order, and the regulations of the House upon it were so precise as to admit of no further discussion. The House had instructed him as the Speaker to call upon the hon. and learned Member for an assurance; the hon. and learned Member had not, for certain reasons, answered that call: and it now only remained to assert the authority of the House, in pursuance of its strictly and well-defined regulations. He would, however, venture to suggest to the hon. Baronet, that in order to give the hon. and learned Member time to consider his position, he should postpone his Motion until the other business of the day was concluded.
 The Speaker  said, that having already had occasion so frequently to address the House in the course of the evening, most painfully, he hoped he might be permitted, before putting the question, to say two words expressive of the deep satisfaction he felt at the conduct of the noble Lord. He cordially concurred with the hon. member for Middlesex, that after the speech which had been made by the right hon. Secretary, there could not exist two opinions in the House upon the course which had been pursued on the present
 148
 The Speaker  thought, that after what had just fallen from the hon. and learned member for Hull, the House would feel it to be unnecessary for him to call on that hon. and learned Member for any further assurance. The statement just made would be received as an assurance on the part of the hon. and learned Member that he would not take any steps in this matter of which the House could not approve.
 The Speaker  said, he could not but express his gratification at the course which the hon. and learned Member had adopted. The House, and the country at large, would feel, that he had been rightly advised by the hon. member for Middlesex and his friends, when he was told, that he would best maintain his own honour, and best consult his personal dignity in upholding the dignity and character of that House.
 The Speaker  said, that it was impossible he could allow the discussion to terminate in its present state; and much as he regretted that an hon. Member had considered it his duty to bring the subject under the consideration of the House, and regretting, also, the manner in which the noble Lord had thought it necessary to answer the question, joining, also, with the hon. and learned member for Hull in his regret, that so much public feeling and private pain had ensued from the expressions made use of (as that hon. and learned Member said) unguardedly, but which expressions conveyed charges against Members of the House, which were serious in themselves, but ambiguous. He said, this, however, without imputing any improper motives to the hon. and learned Member; he thought it, however, his duty to suggest, as the case had been brought under the consideration of the House,—as an appeal had been made, and the subject was thereby brought within their jurisdiction, and the House could interfere,—it should not be permitted for the parties concerned to carry it to any other tribunal, but that the matter should be settled entirely within the walls of the House. He was sure, that there was no old Member in the House but would acknowledge, that if the speeches of Members during a debate were picked up and made the subject of proceedings out of the House, there would be an end to all freedom of debate, of the dignity of the proceedings of the House, and of their usefulness in the public service. He hoped, therefore, that whether the question were now set at rest or not, it would not be touched by either party, except within the walls of the House.
 The Speaker  hoped, that the House would coincide with him in the course which he was about to pursue. He felt so strongly the responsibility of the situation in which he was placed, that he was most anxious that the House would agree with him in asking from the hon. Member an acquiescence in the decision of the House.
 The Speaker  was satisfied, that the hon. and learned member for Tipperary felt differently on this subject from any other Member in the House. He had allowed the subject to be proceeded with, from the conviction that the Orders of the House should be enforced, and that the question being once brought before the House, should not be allowed to be dealt with out of doors. And if he now saw reason to doubt, that the Orders of the House would be observed, unless an injunction were laid on the hon. Member, he should consider it his duty to impose an injunction on either, or both. He need hardly add, that if the hon. member for Tipperary would not yield to the decision of the House, he must be restrained by its authority from doing anything further in this question but with its permission.
 The Speaker  said, that if the hon. and learned Gentleman thought he meant to place him in a worse situation than he would any other hon. Member under similar circumstances, he did him an injustice. The reason why he was averse, if it could be avoided, to the House coming to any fixed Resolution on the subject was, that those hon. Members who did not take part in the proceedings that evening, as well as those who did, might think that every personal quarrel that occurred between hon. Members ought to be brought before the House for its decision. He (the Speaker) was sure the hon. and learned member for Tipperary would not better his position by refusing to comply with the wish expressed, that he would pledge himself not to take any proceedings in the matter out of the House. The hon. and learned Gentleman, he was certain, would, on cool calculation, see the reasonableness of the view which he took of the question. If the hon. Member did not make the suggested pledge voluntarily, the House must do its duty, however reluctantly.
 The Speaker  said, that after the expressions which had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman, he trusted the House would permit him to express his belief, that no Member of that House would impute to him (the Speaker) the wish or intention voluntarily to impute a meaning to words made use of by any hon. Member. He trusted that the House would permit him to say, that he would be the last man in the House to assume to himself the privilege of dictating to it the course it should pursue; but after the general expression of the feeling of the House, he would at once venture to call upon the hon. and learned Gentleman to assure the House, that, his case having been brought before them, to their consideration and judgment it must be left.
 The Speaker  said that, before the hon. Baronet made his Motion, perhaps he might be allowed once more to urge that arrangement which appeared to him in every way so desirable. If the hon. and learned Gentleman considered the matter, the hon. and learned Gentleman would see that he had no choice, but was compelled first to call upon the hon. and learned Member for the assurance he had requested. If he had made the like request from the noble Lord, the reply might have been that the noble Lord had received no offence; that nothing had occurred which would justify the supposition that he intended to take any steps out of that House with reference to the conduct of the hon. and learned Gentleman. The case, however, as it bore upon the hon. and learned Member was very different. It was the language of the
 138
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  seconded the Motion.
 Sir Francis Burdett  said, that if it should be found impossible to induce the Gentlemen between whom the dispute had occurred, to take the course desired by the House, he trusted the House would exercise its authority. No good could result from any other course of proceeding. He put it to the hon. and learned Member to consider that no concession was asked from him. By the Motion he had proposed to make, the hon. and learned Member and the noble Lord would be put precisely on the same footing; and, unless they would voluntarily and gracefully comply with the arrangement, the House must exert its authority. He begged, therefore, formally to move—
 Sir Francis Burdett  felt that the course suggested by the right hon. Baronet, was the only one now left to him; and would therefore move, "That Lord Viscount Althorp, and Richard Lalor Sheil, having declined to comply with the Call of the House communicated through their Speaker, be committed to the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms."
 Sir Francis Burdett , would, of course, bow to the suggestion of the Chair.
 Sir Francis Burdett  rose, and moved, "That Richard Lalor Sheil, having declined to obey the Call of the House communicated to him through the Chair, be taken into the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms." The hon. Baronet observed, that nothing would mortify him more than the reflection of having urged a proposal likely to tarnish in the smallest degree the character or honour of a fellow-man; but, as he was confident such a charge could not in the present instance be made against him, he felt it his duty to persevere in the course in which he had set out.
 Sir Francis Burdett  said, that it now only remained for the Speaker to call on the hon. Members in turn to give their assurance to the House, that nothing which had there taken place that evening should be personal beyond its walls, and that the subject in dispute, having been placed under the consideration of the House, should be allowed to abide its decision.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that his impression of the meaning of the word responsibility, as used by the noble Lord, was just that which was all along affixed to it by the noble Lord. He could not have meant it in the conventional sense attributed to it by the hon. member for Tipperary. Could any man, either in or out of the House, understand the expressions of the noble Lord in any other sense than that in which he himself had stated he had used them? He called on the House to assert the authority of the Chair, and not allow the question to be pursued.
 Sir Robert Peel  thought it extremely desirable that the hon. and learned Mem-
 135
 Sir Robert Peel : The hon. and learned Member fixes a technical meaning upon the word. He declared solemnly upon his honour, as a man and a gentleman, that he could see nothing in the slightest degree derogatory in the course proposed to the hon. and learned Member. No concession was asked. On the contrary, the hon. and learned Member was left at perfect liberty to take whatever steps he thought necessary for the vindication of his public character, in the assembly in which it had been attacked; and that assembly had a perfect right, and was bound to require at his hands, an assurance that that which was properly within its jurisdiction should not be transferred to another.
 Sir Robert Peel : Why, the noble Lord could not. It was impossible he should mean to attach to himself a personal responsibility.
 Sir Robert Peel  thought, there was another party deserving of some small consideration in the present matter, and that was the House. He felt the hon. Baronet would now only discharge his duty by amending his Motion, and at once moving, that both the noble Lord and the hon. and learned Member be committed to the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms.
 Lord Althorp  immediately rose, and said, that as he had received no offence, he could have no hesitation in declaring an intention of not following up the matter under consideration, by any proceedings out of Parliament. He had received no provocation whatever; consequently could entertain no hostile intention towards the hon. and learned Member, or any Member of that House.
 Lord Althorp  immediately rose, amid
 145
 Lord Althorp , after a pause, said, that a consideration for what was due to himself
 146
 Lord Althorp  had to observe, that he had given the only answer he could to the demand which had been made on him. He had pledged himself not to take any proceeding with reference to the matter before the House without its walls.
 Lord Althorp  said, that what he meant when he used the word "responsibility," was this:—A statement had been made to him, in which he believed. He felt when the question was put to him that a declaration to that effect was likely, indeed must give offence, and, therefore, he determined himself to vouch that such a statement had been made, to declare his belief in it, and not to disclose the name of the person who had made it, but to take upon himself the responsibility. If offence, therefore, had been given he was answerable.
 Lord Althorp  rose to explain his meaning. He had stated he had had information, that Irish Members who voted against the Coercion Bill approved of it; that he would not give up his informant, and would take upon himself the responsibility of not doing so.
 Lord Althorp : Yes. The hon. and learned Gentleman is one.
 Lord Althorp  had not meant to authorize any such inference. What he had said was, that no statement had been made, or message transmitted, in favour of the Bill to any Member of the Cabinet by any Irish Member who had voted and spoken against it.
 Lord Althorp : No. [Mr. Carew O'Dwyer and Mr. Lynch, severally put the same question, and received the same answer. Several other Irish Members rose from their seats with the view of putting the same question to Lord Althorp. Great confusion prevailed, and amidst shouts of "Order," and "Chair."]
 Lord Althorp : No.
 Lord Althorp : I am answerable for what I say, and for what I believe. With respect to naming the Irish Members to whom I have alluded, I am perfectly ready to do so if they choose to call upon me; but unless they do so, I think I should not be justified in doing it.
 Lord Althorp  (across the Table): Does the hon. and learned Member accuse me of shrinking?
 Lord Althorp  said, that to the first of the questions, he could answer positively for himself, and to the best of his belief, for his colleagues, that no such assertion as had been referred to had ever been made. With respect to the second question—namely, whether any Irish Member who voted and spoke against the Coercive Bill ever made any statement to the Administration similar to that which the hon. and learned Member had referred to, he was prepared to say that, as far as he was aware, no Irish Member who voted and spoke against the Coercive Bill had made any such statement to a Cabinet Minister. He felt that he was placed in a peculiar situation. The hon. and learned member for Dublin a few moments since said, that his right hon. friend had properly answered a question, because it was put to him; and, under the same circumstances, he felt that he should not act a manly part if he answered the question short. He had said, that to his knowledge no Irish Member who voted against the Coercive Bill had made the statement in question to a Cabinet Minister; but he should not act properly, if he did not declare, that he had good reason to believe that some Irish Members (certainly more than one), who voted and spoke with considerable violence against the Bill, did in private conversation, use very different language.
 Lord Althorp  said, it appeared to him that the hon. Member had entirely misunderstood what was intended to be conveyed by that part of the Address to which he had alluded. The hon. Member seemed to think, that it was intended to express to his Majesty something which would leave no hope of improvement in the state of agriculture. No such object was intended by those who framed the Address. The hon. Member had expressed his regret, that neither the Government nor the gentlemen who composed the Committee of last year, had recommended further inquiry into the condition of the landed interests. He thought, that Government would be wrong in recommending any such inquiry after the Report of that Committee, unless they bad good ground to expect that they could devise measures to relieve the distress which existed. The hon. Member had said truly, that the Committee of last year had stated, that the cultivation of land was worse at present than it had been some years past; that agriculture was on the decline; and that great distress prevailed amongst the agricultural population. But the hon. Member ought to have remembered that, after the fullest investigation into the subject, the Committee had concluded that no legislative measure should be taken respecting it. It was, however, competent to the hon. member for Oldham, or to any other Member of the House, to propose such inquiry, or to make any other specific motion on the subject that he pleased; and he would take upon himself to say, that any proposition which would benefit the agriculturist, without detriment to other interests, would have the cordial co-operation of his Majesty's Ministers, and also, he believed, of every independent Gentleman of that House. He admitted, with the hon. Member, that a system of incendiarism existed in some parts of the country; but that fact would not justify the Government in saying, that the country generally was not tranquil. Though incendiarism, existed, it did not prevail to
 115
 Viscount Palmerston  rose to explain his understanding of the word responsibility, as it was used by the noble Lord, and certainly as it was understood by himself. The hon. and learned Member had called upon the noble Lord to give the name of his informant. The noble Lord did what every honourable man would on such an occasion,—he refused to give the name; but he took upon himself the responsibility of the statement he had made. But
 131
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to direct the attention of the House to a breach of its privileges, and, after what had passed last night, it required very serious and deliberate investigation. It seemed to him generally understood, that the House had exercised its jurisdiction over two individual Members; and that the House had itself attached the matter then in controversy, which it was competent both to investigate and to redress. It was exceedingly desirable, that the characters of Members in the performance of their parliamentary duty should be ascertained—that the individuals might meet reproach if they deserved reproach, and confidence if they deserved confidence. He was himself, and so was his hon. and learned friend, the member for Tipperary, exceedingly anxious that an investigation
 151 152 The Examiner
 Mr. Secretary Stanley,  before the paper was read at the Table, wished to ask, whether the House, by the act of reading it, would be bound to take any consequent steps with regard to the printer or publisher? If that were not the case, he should have no objection to the reading by the clerk, as a preliminary to any motion the hon. and learned Gentleman might wish to make. If it were the case, he took the earliest opportunity of stating unhesitatingly, that he should object to the preliminary Motion.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that, after the explanation they had heard from the Chair, he did hope the House would take no step in this matter without due deliberation upon the consequences which that step might involve. It was impossible for any person, who heard the painful discussion of last night, not to have entertained the deepest regret at what then
 153 154 155 156
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the only thing in the course of the right hon. Gentleman's observations which excited in his mind any portion of surprise, was the supposition that any thing which had fallen from him could be calculated to hurt the feelings of any human being. It was impossible for him or for any man to exaggerate the importance of the inquiry to which they were about to proceed. He wished for deliberation; but deliberation did not preclude determination. He thought it would be more consonant with a deliberative course of procedure, and it would be important, above all to his hon. and learned friend, that they should have before them at once an idea, with something like distinctness, as to the form of the charge and of the nature of the inquiry. He need not say, that there could be no disposition on the part of those who were accused, to limit the scope or nature of the inquiry; there could be no desire with them, but that the investigation should be ample and complete. He therefore thought, that he was not only justified in doing so, but bound to adopt the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman. Acceding to everything which had fallen from him as to the importance of the subject, and the serious consequences which it involved, the only thing he had to say was, that if any charge could be made it should be at once stated. He meant, that it should be generally specified, in order that the House should know what it was they were to inquire about. The accusation of the Chancellor of the Exchequer had a peculiar feature in it. It not only went beyond the question he put, but it included other individuals besides his hon. and learned friend. Certainly the noble Lord had said more than one; but that might be any number. It could not be less than two, but it might be just forty. He admitted, that the subject had been taken up by the other side of the House
 157
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  begged to correct the hon. and learned Gentleman when he said, that there was any difference between him and his noble friend near him. On the part of his noble friend and himself, he declined the application of the hon. and learned Gentleman to be considered public accusers in the case, and therefore he could not give the information the hon. and learned Gentleman desired. The term used by his noble friend was, that certain Members of that House, who spoke against the Coercion Bill used very different language out of the House. He again implored the House to pause, in order that they might have time to take into their serious consideration the steps which it would be proper to adopt before they decided on any direct or final course.
 Mr. O'Connell  regretted extremely, that from the turn which the Debate had taken it was impossible to go further. Now the matter became involved in much obscurity, even with regard to the charge made. Nothing definite was stated, and he must say, that he had never heard a charge more general, more loose, and more vague. The House would feel with him how painful a situation he stood in in vindicating a Gentleman from a charge that was in its nature so indefinite. Why were they not told of some particular time or place? And as the transaction now assumed quite a different shape, and as now nothing personal referred to his Lordship, why were they not told who it was that reported the conversation, and why did they not hear of some circumstance which would enable them to see their way a little further? There were no particulars given; all was general assertion. He hoped it was not the case with the noble Lord,  dolosus versatur in generalibus 158
 Mr. Halcombe  said, that this course was one which inflicted peculiar hardship upon such of the constituency of Warwick (and they were the vast majority) as were perfectly innocent of all bribery and malpractices. The evidence taken before the Committee, even supposing it to be correct, only proved twenty-one cases of bribery; and surely that was no ground to deprive the whole of the inhabitants of Warwick of the right of representation. The fact was, no case had been made out against the electors of that place; and the object now was, to supply the deficiencies in the former evidence. The Report spoke of "gross bribery and corruption." Now
 159 l l 160
 Mr. Halcombe , in support of his assertion,
 161 teste l 162 163 164
 Mr. Hardy  was surprised at the doctrine of the hon. Member. The hon. Member said, that as there was no proof of treating after the Writ sanctioned by Sir Charles Greville or his Committee, there was, in fact, no treating that came within the provisions of the law. But were not the houses notoriously open for those in his interest after the Writ? Could it be said, that was no illegal treating, when 750 electors were guzzling to the amount of 3,000 l 165
 The Speaker  understood the case to be founded on these circumstances:—A Writ for the borough was suspended on the ground, that a Bill relating to that borough was to be brought into Parliament. That Bill, it was intended should pass, but it was cut short by the prorogation of Parliament. On the re-assembling of Parliament notice was given of the renewal of this Bill; but that circumstance in itself did not necessarily suspend the issuing of the Writ, which must depend upon an order of the House. As far, however, as he could recollect he knew no variance in the practice, which was, that the Writ be postponed until the House should form its judgment whether such Bill should pass or not.
 The Speaker  said, that the reading of the paragraph would not necessarily commit the House to any proceedings against the printer, unless, upon the reading, it should be further determined, that the paragraph contained matter which the House, having noticed, would be bound, in vindication of its privileges, to visit with its displeasure or punishment.
 Sir Ronald Ferguson  moved, that the issuing of a Writ for the borough of Warwick be suspended until the 17th of March. He had not anticipated any opposition to this Motion until he had heard, unexpectedly, that it was to be opposed by the hon. and learned member for Dover. The course he was taking was similar to that which was pursued on the same subject last Session. He appealed to the House and to the Speaker whether it was not usual to suspend the Writ for any place whilst the conduct of its constituency was a subject of inquiry.
 Sir Ronald Ferguson , as Chairman of the Committee in question, begged to correct an inaccuracy in the latter statement. The private accounts of the noble Earl had not been examined by the Committee.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  said, that was not the proper time for inquiring into the delinquency of Warwick. A Committee had been appointed, and had reported; and it would be an insult to the Committee if the House were unwilling to suspend the Writ until the result of the proceeding set on foot were ascertained. If the hon. Member were not the advocate for the people of Warwick, he must say, that at least, he appeared so. It appeared, that it was not one party alone that was guilty of bribery, but all the people of Warwick. The hon. Member said, that 1,500 l
 Mr. Ellice  observed, that the merits of the question brought forward by the hon. member for Middlesex had been discussed before with a much better chance of arriving at a result. Much money had been thrown away, but the hon. Member was in error when he supposed that it fell within the province of the Committee to which he alluded to make any alterations in the amount of the military force without the consent of the House. It was for that assembly to make such reductions in, or additions to, the number of men employed
 167
 Mr. Hume  called the attention of the House to the immense sums expended since the peace, in keeping up the establishment of the militia. A Committee on the subject had sat up-stairs, and doubts were there entertained whether the whole charge might not be saved; it was therefore recommended in the Report, that a committee should be named expressly to inquire into that subject. He wished now to be informed whether Ministers intended to appoint such a committee? The present cost of the militia, in time of peace, was as great as that of ten marching regiments. He would read to the House an abstract of the militia expenditure from 1817 inclusive, to April 1, 1834. It appeared, by the Parliamentary Return, 427, of 1830, that
 
 
 The total amount, as stated, from 1817 to 1528, both inclusive, (13 years) £4,448,066 
 In 1829, for Great Britain 247,393 330,018 
 Ireland 82,713 
 In 1830, for the United Kingdom 264,057 
 In 1830, for the United Kingdom 351,300 
 1832 to 31st March; 1832 £26,539 
 to 1st April 1833 107,943 
 Ireland—three mouths 13,472 202,483 
 for one year 54,527 
 1833 to 1st April 1834—Great Britain 187,534 243,550 
 Ireland 56,015 
 Total for Militia in 16¼ years (1817–1833) Expenditure for Volunteers from the year 1816 £5,839,535 
 to 1833, both inclusive 2,306,238 
 Total in 17 years £8,145,773 166 l
 Sir John Wrottesley  concurred in what had fallen from the hon. member for Middlesex. Whatever might be thought of the propriety of maintaining a militia, the mode in which they were kept up was exceedingly expensive and extremely inefficient. The field discipline of the militia had not been altered for the last fifteen or sixteen years; but within that period the greatest improvement had been effected in the army, particularly in the manœuvres that were employed. He recollected, that, at the commencement of the war, there was hardly a man in the militia who was acquainted with the manual exercise; and, in a particular instance, a body of militia was obliged to be drilled by the officers of the regiment to which he had then the honour of belonging. There was a great number of men who had served in the colonies who were now receiving pensions of from 1 s s
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  begged leave in consequence of what had fallen from the hon. and learned member for Tipperary, to interpose between the hon. and learned
 169 O'Connell:
 Mr. O'Connell : I object to my hon. and learned friend being induced (to use
 170 171 Some 172 The Hull Packet Member not The Hull Packet The Hull Rockingham The Hull Rockingham The Examiner Name No Yes 173 The Examiner 174 175 persiflages 176
 Mr. O'Connell : I do not bring it forward for the purpose of disparaging any parties; but this is a case which has received the sanction of his Majesty, which has been promulgated in General Orders, and is the common topic of all the newspapers. I refer to it as containing the opinion of a highly honourable and intelligent Court; and there I find a strong censure of the practice of taking notes of the conversation of officers, which the Court say could not be considered otherwise than revolting to every gentlemanly feeling. What I want to know is, whether conversations not taken down, but reported, are not liable to the farther stigma and reproach that there may be a variance, if only from mis-recollection? Yet this is the charge of the noble Lord—a charge which the Government must shrink from bringing forward. They have powerful champions to cover the noble Lord's retreat; and they may, if they think fit, prevent the disclosure and appearance of the
 177 178 The Examiner
 Mr. O'Connell  then moved, that the paragraph be referred to a Committee consisting of the following Gentlemen:—Lord G. Somerset, Sir E. Knatchbull, Sir F. Burdett, Mr. Romilly, Mr. K. Tynte, jun., Mr. Strutt, Colonel Maberly, Sir H. Hardinge, Mr. Hawkins, Mr. Parrott, Mr. Shaw, Mr. Hume, Mr. Gillon, Major Fan-court, Mr. Lefevre, Colonel Verner, Mr. Warburton, Mr. Grote, Mr. Abercromby, and Sir R. Peel.
 Mr. Hill  said, that the hon. and learned member for Dublin had expressed his wish that this question should be discussed with good temper. On his own part he hoped it would be discussed with even temper, at the least; and, as far as he could, he would follow the precept, while he took warning by the example, of the hon. and learned Gentleman. It would be in the recollection of the House, that after the declaration of the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, on the former evening, when the noble Lord replied, in answer to a question put to him by the hon. member for Tipperary, that he was one of those Members of whom it had been reported that he had spoken differently out of the House on the subject of the Coercion Bill to the opinions he had expressed in the House; it would,
 179 180 The Cork Evening Herald 181 182 183 Examiner 184
 Colonel Evans said, that after what he
 185 186 espionage 187
 Mr. Hill  had said, on a former evening, and would now repeat, that an Irish Member had made a communication to Government, to the effect, that the Coercion Bill, against which he had often spoken
 192
 Mr. Hill  I did not say so, except as far as this—that, speaking from memory, I had no recollection of having used the words, that votes were obtained by such machinery."
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that no question which had come before the House within his memory presented so much difficulty as to the course which it would be safest and best for them to pursue, because if, on the one hand, they should decide against any inquiry, many hon. Members might complain that injustice was done to them, and because it would be difficult to make the public understand the grounds of objection to the Motion for the Committee; while, on the other hand, they could not shut their eyes to the dangers and difficulties which such an inquiry would involve, and with which it must be attended, and to the still greater difficulty of bringing it to a practical conclusion. The hon. and learned member for Dublin seemed to think that he (Mr. Stanley) had raised a difficulty as to the possible results of the inquiry, and, indeed, had imputed motives to him in the course which he took. He had no motive nor any object, beyond that of a desire to recommend that course which might be found most convenient to the House and satisfactory to the public. Now what
 193 194 195 Cheers 196
 Mr. O'Connell  was glad that they had at length arrived at what might be considered the conclusion of this protracted discussion. The hon. member for Hull had seconded his Motion, but he did not believe him very sincere in his advocacy of it. Those hon. Members who had attended to the debate must have perceived that the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) had thrown the hon. and learned member for Hull (Mr. Hill) overboard, and had made a distinct and separate charge. The right hon. Secretary for the Colonies (Mr. Stanley) had, in the course of his address, made some observations upon the conduct of the hon. and learned member for Hull, in the course of which the allusion to him (Mr. O'Connell) could not be mistaken. He had not provoked that allusion, but it appeared that the right hon. Gentleman could not help it. The hon. and learned member for Hull was on his way to the Bench, he was certainly looking up to it, he was in a fair way for it, and, perhaps, very properly so. The right hon. Secretary of State had told them that in the event of any proceeding with reference to this matter, the hon. Member could not, as a man of honour, have left his publisher to take the responsibility of what he had said or written. But if the hon. and learned Gentleman were to attain the object of his ambition (he would be my Lord then,) and if his Lordship should find that a Jury impanneled before him were notoriously packed—if he found that every honest and liberal-minded man was excluded from that Jury for party and political purposes, then, perhaps, he would not be so ready to stand in the shoes of his publisher. This, however, was not a subject upon which he intended to say a word; he would not have touched upon
 202
 Mr. Sinclair  Then why say, that the Reports of the hon. and learned Member's speech, as given in the newspapers, was incorrect?
 Mr. Sinclair  seconded the Amendment. He observed, that he had understood the hon. and learned member for Hull, to deny that he had said in his speech, that an Irish Member, who had voted and spoken warmly against the Coercion Bill, had gone to a Minister to urge that measure forward.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  assured the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Stanley) (who had risen at the same time, and the House, that he had not risen from a motive of vanity, nor did he then presume to address the House from any expectation that he could do that justice to the subject which it was sure to have met at the hands of the right hon. Gentleman, in as far as ability was concerned. He could not consent, however, that such a question should be dismissed without further remark. It was not a private or an insignificant question, as some hon. Members would appear to consider it; but it was one of much public importance. It was a charge by one public officer against another—by one representative of the people against another—involving a gross dereliction of principle in the discharge of a public duty. The English and Irish public were interested in a full inquiry. To' Ireland the matter was most important, for it might either make it appear, on the one hand, that votes had been obtained against the liberties of that country by the tergiversation of one of its Representatives, or, on the other hand, that such votes had been obtained by a foul calumny. The hon. and learned member for Hull had said, that he could explain; but he had done no such thing. The hon. and learned Member had made an answer to the Speech of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, but he had not explained one word of his own speech, which speech, and not the speech of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, was the one requiring comment and explanation. Nor had the hon. and learned member for Hull adverted to the contradiction given to his statement by the noble Lord (Lord Althorp). But if the hon. and learned Member did not explain or support his speech, he now, and for the first time, denied it. That was certainly strange, for there were three reports of the hon. and learned Member's speech, and it was hardly to be supposed that they were all wrong. The hon. and learned Member had said, that the hon. and learned member for Dublin was warm, and that he would oppose his coolness to that warmth. Be it so. The House would judge which was the most commendable or natural feeling upon the occasion. The
 188 Tu pulsas, ego vapulo tantum." 189 190
 Mr. Sheil  rose and said, be trusted that before his learned friend proceeded with the Motion of which he had given notice, the House would indulge him for a few seconds. He asked for this indulgence with the more confidence, because it was not his intention to interfere in the approaching discussion, lest he should be betrayed into expressions which might be offensive to others, or not becoming the assembly he was addressing. He asked for a trial. He asked it with all the respect due to the House, and with the simple strenuousness of one who was conscious of innocence. He had said, that it was not his intention to take part in the approaching discussion: with the facts that had come before the House every Member was, of course, fully acquainted, and it was not necessary for him to repeat them. He repeated that he only, asked for a full, fair, and complete investigation; and as to the form of that investigation, he left it to the House, in full confidence that on all sides the spirit of partisanship would be entirely excluded—that nothing of the acrimonious description which had occurred a few days ago would in future have to be lamented. He asked for inquiry with the more strenuousness, in consequence of the intimation given on Friday by the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies—an intimation which he was sure (and he spoke it most unaffectedly) was not intended to give pain, but which at the same time, instead of deterring him from requiring a trial, made it most imperative that he should demand an investigation in the most earnest manner. Of the form of proceeding the House was the best judge: he asked no favour, but he threw himself upon British justice.
 The Speaker  put it to the feelings of the hon. and learned Member himself—first, whether it was necessary thus to substantiate his general position by reference to a particular case; and next, whether he would do so in a matter which was not before the House, and which was inconsistent with its feelings?
 Sir Francis Burdett  expressed his deep regret that this case had been already suffered to occupy the House to such an extent; and he could not see any other effect which it could produce on the public mind but that of involving its own degradation. He did not see how it was to go further with it, or in what way the question of privilege could arise, or how this Committee which was moved for was to act, or in what way its authority was to be exercised, or how it was to proceed. As far as the hon. and learned member for Tipperary was concerned, he did not see that there was anything in the case to touch him, for he should be ashamed of himself if he did not solemnly declare his entire belief in that hon. and learned Gentleman's asseveration of his innocence. He would repeat, that he did not know in what way the Committee were to proceed in the matter. The charge had now dwindled away, it had shrunk like a phantom, and eluded the grasp. For his own part, he did not see how the Committee were to collect the information that might be desired. Suppose, for instance, he were called upon to repeat what had transpired in private conversation; he would say that he had a peculiar defect in his memory, I so that he could not recollect what any man said to him in his private conversation; and if private conversation was not to be detailed, on what was it that they were to proceed? Might it not happen to any public man to give a strong opinion in private, on a particular measure, and afterwards, on more mature consideration, to vote differently from what he had said? For his own part, he could say, that it had often happened to him, to give his vote in that House differently from the impressions made on him at first by it, and which impressions he had expressed in private, as they first arose in his mind; but he did not think that in so doing, he had been guilty of any dereliction of honourable principle, or of any political inconsistency. In the present case the Report was a calumny, or it was a story repeated from private conversation; but he did not think that matters taken from private conversation ought to be made the ground of a public charge amongst gentlemen. What took place in the discus-
 191
 Sir Henry Willoughby  said, the charges made by the hon. and learned member for Hull, and by the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) were so much at variance with each other, that in his opinion, any defence from the hon. and learned member for Tipperary was unnecessary. He thought, that the appointment of a Committee would be a dangerous precedent; and he entirely concurred in all that had fallen from the hon. Baronet, the member for Westminster. If once that House took upon itself to inquire into the transactions of private life, the most mischievous consequences might ensue. If, therefore, the Amendment was pressed to a division it should have his vote, although he found the opinion of the majority was opposed to it.
 Sir Robert Inglis  regretted being obliged on the present occasion to differ  in toto
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he would not follow the example of the right hon. Gentleman who had just concluded, and enter upon the observations he had to offer, by promising to speak to the question under discussion with coolness, lest, like the right hon. Gentleman, he might, of course through inadvertence, expose himself to the charge, not of speaking without the walls of the House differently from what he did within them, but, and in his opinion to a graver charge, of speaking towards the conclusion of his address in a spirit, if not diametrically, very nearly the opposite of that to which, on setting out, he had pledged himself. No one, he begged to observe, could feel more deeply than he did the extreme difficulty of the situation in which the House found itself placed on the present occasion. He felt deeply that difficulty for many reasons, but for none more than that arising from a fear—a well-grounded fear he had reason to think it was—that they would gain no credit from the public for the time which had been occupied in the present discussion. He feared that the public, neither having watched, or, if they had, not being capable of comprehending the progressive steps by which the House became involved in their present difficulty, they would be disposed to think their representatives were trifling their time away in such discussions, while questions of the deepest importance were awaiting their consideration. For some time past the public mind had been impatiently directed to the meeting of Parliament, for the purpose of ascertaining what measures of relief, what plans of further reform, would be proposed by the Government, with a view to the removal of those burthens of which the country complained; and when it appeared that the House of Commons, as well as the Government, instead of applying themselves to the important business for the transaction of which Parliament had been assembled, were occupied
 197 198 199 200 201
 Mr. O'Connell  was glad to hear of this determination. No measure was better calculated to give relief to the King's subjects than the establishment of Local Courts. He might, perhaps, be allowed to advert to the new Rules sent to the House by the Judges. However humble might be his opinion, he felt bound to say, that it was very adverse to those regulations. By them an enormous power over a vast amount of property was given to the Judges in matters of costs; and he should be able to demonstrate that some of the rules would tend very much to multiply suits, instead of making one action final. They also left the doctrine of special demurrers, as at present; and special demurrers, or pleadings upon points merely formal, were a disgrace to the law of the land.
 The Solicitor General  would not enter into the discussion until the subject should be regularly brought before the House; but he was satisfied that the Rules would do more to simplify the law, and to facilitate the administration of justice, than any legislative measure that could be adopted.
 Mr. O'Connell  asked whether the hon.
 211
 The Solicitor General  replied, that those who, like himself, approved of the Rules, would, of course, not bring them forward. If they remained on the table six weeks without change, they were to have the force of law. It was for those who objected to them to direct the attention of the House to the subject.
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to disfranchise the borough of Carrickfergus. It would not be necessary for him to trouble the House at any length by entering fully into the subject which he rose to bring under its consideration, for he had, on a former occasion, when he obtained leave to bring in a Bill on the same subject, stated at some length the grounds upon which he did so. The Bill, for leave to bring in which he was now about to move, was founded upon the Reports of two Committees. One was the Election Committee, which found that, not only was the last election for the borough of Carrickfergus void, but that bribery and corruption had there taken place, in the course of that election. Upon that Report he had brought in a Bill to disfranchise the borough. In consequence, however, of some gentlemen interested in the fate of the borough in question interfering, the progress of the Bill was stopped, and it was referred to a Select Committee, to make a further Report upon the circumstances connected with the election which had taken place in the borough. The Committee, after hearing further evidence, reported to the House that it was a fit case for a Bill. This being the case, he determined upon bringing in the Bill, which he had now the honour to introduce to the House. He should move upon this occasion, that the Bill be read a first time, and then that ample time should be allowed before the Bill would be read a second, in order to afford the fullest opportunity to investigate every matter connected with it. His Bill was one merely for disfranchising the borough of Carrickfergus. He had not substituted in his Bill any other place for Car rickfergus. He understood, that some other hon. Gentleman intended to propose some other place for Carrickfergus, to return a Member to Parliament. If any
 212
 Mr. Halcombe  was anxious to impress upon the House the importance of the great and vital principle involved in the question thus brought forward. There were no less than five boroughs with which the House would have to deal, if it proceeded to disfranchise Carrickfergus, upon the grounds stated by the hon. and learned member for Dublin,—namely, Liverpool, Hertford, Warwick, Coventry, and Stafford. He was struck with this important question, which all must ask themselves in this House, sooner or later—Were they prepared, as a Legislative Assembly, to take away constitutional rights, upon investigations before Committees, which had no power to examine witnesses on oath? He thought it a most arbitrary proceeding, to take away the constitutional privileges of boroughs, without giving permission for the witnesses called in before Committees of the House to be examined upon oath. Committees had not the power to put oaths to the witnesses, and he thought they should be invested with this power, that they might be enabled to proceed in a more judicial manner. A Special Committee, not having ower to administer an oath to witnesses, had sent in a Report to the House, and the hon. and learned member for Dublin,
 213
 Colonel Evans  hoped, that, in offering a few remarks, it would not be supposed that he meant the slightest disrespect to the king of Belgium, because he would say, that as far as he knew of his Majesty's public character, he was entitled to the highest respect. The noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had stated, that this pension was granted by Act of Parliament. But he (Colonel Evans) believed, that this was an unprecedented case, for it was that of a foreign Sovereign receiving a pension from this country. He should, therefore, think, that if a new Act of Parliament were framed (as in the instance of the payment to Russia, in the case of the Russian-Belgic loan) the subject should be submitted to the opinion of the Crown lawyers with a view to know from them, whether, by the existing law of England, there was any such person as the Prince Leopold? He merely threw out this suggestion, because he thought it was a fair question to be raised, whether it was lawful to issue the money under the circumstances. Now, in respect to certain Hanoverians, who were pensioned by this country, he thought that there was a wide difference in their situation from that of many French officers who were still receiving pensions from England. Looking to the fact, that in the latter case many of the French officers were now employed by
 224
 Colonel Evans  would mention, as an instance of the imposition to which persons seeking to be returned to that House were subjected, that, at a recent election, where there were three candidates, letters were received from the Returning Officer some time before the day of nomination, calling on each of them to pay a sum of 200 l l l l l l l l l
 Colonel Wood  felt great objections to the appointment of a Committee; and although a Bill had been brought into the House last Session, to alter the Apothecaries' Act, it was to be remembered, that it was the production of the hon. Member himself who made the present Motion. The present law did not prevent men educated in Scotland or Ireland, from passing examinations in England; after which, they were at liberty to set up as practitioners in any part of the United Kingdom. The Colleges of Surgeons and of Physicians were regulated by Royal Charters; and he did not see how they were to be violated. The last Apothecaries' Act was passed in 1815, and he deemed it to be the poor man's protection. The rich could always procure the best of medical aid, but the poor man must put up with whoever the parish might provide for him; and if the law had not enforced a strict education, and rigid examination of medical students, incompetent persons would be introduced into the profession, and parishes would take the cheapest practitioners for the service of the poor. The Act of 1815 was, therefore, the poor man's protection, and he should be very sorry to see it altered. The Committee would lead to a very wide inquiry, and, in his opinion, would only waste the public time, and produce no beneficial results.
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  rose to move for leave to
 237 l l
 Mr. Halcombe  objected, that the evidence had not been taken upon oath, and
 238
 Mr. O'Connell  said, there was one principle in the Bill, which he totally disapproved of, although, as stated by the noble Lord (Howick) and under proper circumstances, it seemed in itself to be perfectly fair—he meant, the doing away of all technical objections. The misfortune was, that in proceedings before the Magistrates, the statutes excluded all consideration of the merits; whereas, if the evidence on the merits were set forth on a conviction, a Court of Appeal would be enabled to proceed much more satisfactorily.
 Mr. Chetwynd  complained, that the hon. Baronet who had brought the Motion, had not been made aware of the circumstances that had lately transpired in Stafford. Within a few days, it had been made known to him, that the witness who had given the list of bribed voters to the Committee, had publicly declared, that from the beginning to the end, it was a forgery. He would, therefore, entreat the House to suspend its judgment.
 Lord John Russell  expressed his satisfaction
 232
 Lord John Russell  would not pledge himself to support such a motion, should it be made; but he did not hesitate to say the alteration to which it referred was most feasible. During the discussion upon the Reform Bill he had more than once stated his intention to be, that the poll should terminate within twenty-four hours, and he had only extended the period to forty-eight hours, in compliance with the suggestions of some hon. Members, who feared that, at the outset, one day would not be sufficient.
 Lord John Russell  did not rise for the purpose of taking any part in the discussion; but merely to say, that if doubts were entertained as to the legality of continuing to pay the pension, the hon. member for Middlesex would have an opportunity of raising the question on a future occasion. Although no direct charge had been made against the character of the king of Belgium, so much had been said on the subject of his expenditure, in the way of sneers and insinuations, that he (Lord John Russell) thought it necessary to say, that when he had relinquished his claim for 30,000 l l l
 Lord John Russell  observed, that the hon. and learned member for Dublin had done quite right in giving the parties interested sufficient notice, while at the same time the Bill would be moved forward. He had had some experience in those matters, and the question of the guilt or the innocence of the borough lay in a very small compass. In his opinion, the Bill ought to pass.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  hoped the House would permit him to say, that the medical and surgical profession in Ireland, especially the latter, had arrived at that eminence and perfection, as to make it most expedient to guard against any ill-advised interference with the regulation of these bodies. The School of Surgery of Ireland, held at this moment the highest reputation for practical science, and, from what he knew and had heard, he would undertake to say, that any alteration with it would be most detrimental. He would say, however, with respect to the Apothecaries' Company of Ireland, that it much required investigation. A body such as that, which controlled and directed that branch of the profession, should be open to the competition of talent, and should be exclusively professional in its duties and objects. The Apothecaries' Company, however, had not objects exclusively professional; it was a trading company; and the qualification for its most important offices depended on the amount of capital invested in the stock of the Company that the candidate was so lucky as to possess. He was sure the House would agree, that the honors and offices of this body should be entirely open to competition. He had lately been informed, that this company had instituted proceedings against physicians regularly educated, and treated them as if they were ignorant practitioners, for having compounded medicines. He was of opinion that a person authorised to prescribe medicine should know how to compound it; and he would, therefore, support any proposition to overthrow this monopoly; at the same time that he would take care to guard against incapacity, by establishing an examination in pharmacy, before a court properly constituted. He was of opinion, too, that the monopoly of the College of Physicians of London should be destroyed. He thought that there could be no reason why a physician of the universities of these countries, or of the schools of the Continent, whose works enriched the science of medicine, and who were the founders of the most important discoveries, should be excluded from the
 236
 Mr. Hawes  seconded the Motion, which, he observed, was, in some respects, different from that of the hon. member for Colchester. He was most anxious that the lists of the votes should be published, with the authority and sanction of that House; that was almost the only mode in which he could show to his constituents the part which he took in the Debates. If the divisions were published, it was important that they should be published with all the authority which they would carry with them from having the name of the Speaker attached to them. His hon. friend had rightly observed, that it might be found in the Committee, that any plan proposed for that purpose would be impracticable. If that were so, then this question would be set at rest for ever. In opposing this Motion, let no man say that he was not opposing publicity being given to his votes on public questions; for, it must be evi dent to every thinking man, that every Member who opposed this Motion, must dislike the nature of his votes being disclosed to his constituents.
 Mr. Harvey  defended the way in which he dropped his Motion last Session, and said, that unless a man belonged to one of the great parties in that House, he could not, had he even the tongue of an angel, expect his proposition to meet with the attention which its intrinsic merits might deserve.
 Mr. Harvey  hoped his hon. friend would so frame his Motion that it should become part of the business of the Committee to inquire, whether, both in counties and boroughs, but especially in the latter, the poll might not be taken in one day. For his part, he thought it would be very practicable, in all cases, to take the poll within a day; and it was therefore his intention, when the House came to consider the cases of those boroughs about to undergo revision, to move a clause to that effect.
 Mr. Harvey  was sure, that if the Committee looked upon the subject in the light of the expense it caused candidates, they would, without hesitation, recommend the alteration he suggested. He could adduce many instances in which large bodies of electors purposely avoided voting on the first day of polling, in the hope that, if in the exercise of that Scotch art, called prudence, they held back until the second, they might be able, not only to boast of having turned the election in favour of a particular candidate, but to turn something substantial into their own pockets.
 Mr. Littleton  could assure the House, that the investigation would be popular
 235
 Mr. Shaw  reminded the House, that it was one question whether the bribery and corruption alleged to have existed was sustained by the evidence given in; and, another, whether the borough ought to be entirely disfranchised. He was ready to say that it ought not.
 Mr. Robinson  could not omit taking that opportunity of saying, that the answer of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was anything but satisfactory. He should like to know who were the parties responsible for the 135,000 l
 Mr. Robinson  said, he had felt it his duty to give notice of a motion for "an account of the sum or sums of money paid into the Exchequer, or otherwise received by the Government, out of the annuity granted by Act of Parliament, to Prince Leopold of Saxe Cobourg, since the accession of His Majesty to the throne of Belgium, specifying the time of such payments." It was well known that his Royal Highness Prince Leopold, previous to leaving this country in order to ascend the throne of Belgium, renounced, with some reservations, to which he would presently more particularly allude, the annuity in question. In the course of last Session, the hon. member for Monmouth asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether any sum had been paid into the Exchequer in consequence of his Royal Highness's renunciation; and the noble Lord's answer, though it did not appear to create much surprise in the House, excited astonishment in the country; for, from that answer, it appeared, that, although the Prince had, up to that period, been a year and a half out of England, the public had derived no benefit from his abandonment of the pension. He was anxious now again to call the attention of the House to the subject, because, although another year had elapsed, he was given to understand, that the noble Lord could give no other answer than that which he made to the question formerly put to him, namely,—that the country had not yet received any benefit from King Leopold's renunciation of his pension. It was not his intention to discuss the question of the right of King Leopold to retain the annuity after he quitted this country, and became the sovereign of an independent state; it was, indeed, unnecessary to do so, because King Leopold had, with some reservations, voluntarily abandoned the annuity. It was, however, his decided conviction, that King Leopold could not as an honourable man, according to the honest construction of the Act of Parliament, continue to receive the annuity after he ceased, by accepting the Belgic crown, to owe allegiance to the Crown of Great Britain. He might be told, that the Act simply declared, that Prince Leopold should be entitled to receive 50,000 l 215 l l l l * l * 216 Marlborough-house, July 15. My dear Lord Grey,—Before I quit the country, I am desirous to state, in writing, the intentions and views which I had the pleasure of communicating to you verbally this morning, on the subject of my British annuity. As sovereign of Belgium, it is not my intention to draw from this country any portion of the income which was settled upon me by Act of Parliament, at the period of my marriage. Your Lordship is, however, well aware, that, up to the very moment of my leaving England, I have maintained my establishments here upon their accustomed footing and that, consequently, there remain to be fulfilled and discharged pecuniary engagements, and outstanding debts, to an amount which it is quite impossible for me to state at the present time with precision. As soon, therefore, as I shall have accomplished the payment of these demands, it is my intention to make over into the hands of trustees, whom I will, without loss of time, appoint, the whole of the annuity which I receive from this country, in trust, for the following purposes:— I shall require my trustees to maintain, in a state of complete habitation and of repair, the house, gardens, and park, at Claremont: and further, to pay all the salaries, pensions, and allowances, which I shall deem a proper reward to those persons who have claims upon me for their faithful services, during my residence in this country. I shall, in addition, require them to continue ail those charities, and annual donations to charitable institutions, which have been allowed, or subscribed to, either by the Princess Charlotte or by myself, up to the present period. All these objects having been fulfilled, it is my wish and desire, that the remainder shall be repaid into the British Exchequer. I remain, my dear Lord Grey, most faithfully yours, LEOPOLD. 217 218 l l
 Mr. Sinclair  presented a Petition signed by the Minister, Elders, and 315 Parishioners of Wattin, in Caithness, praying for the repeal of the Act of 1712, by which patronage was again imposed on the Church of Scotland, and that the general assembly should be empowered to determine in what manner its pastors should be elected. As this was precisely the object of the Motion which he had brought forward last year, he need scarcely say how entirely he concurred in the prayer of these highly respectable petitioners, than whom none were more devoted to the principles of pure and undefiled religion. He should never cease to contend, that the present system of nomination is unhallowed and inexpedient. St. Paul declares that the love of money is the root of all evil—No, says the advocate for patronage, the possession of money shall be the source of all power. Let any man, whatever be his principles—whatever his objects—whatever his moral conduct—acquire the means of purchasing a presentation, and  uno minor est Jove fiat 208 209 210
 Mr. Warburton  rose, in pursuance of the notice he had given, to move for a Select Committee, to inquire into the various branches of the medical profession. He would content himself by simply stating a few of the grounds on which, in his opinion, it now became imperative for the House, in the exercise of their legislative capacity, to interfere, and accommodate, if possible, the dissensions well known to exist among the several branches of the profession. The by-laws of the College of Physicians had been long the cause of variance between the Licentiates and the Fellows of that body. The House would recollect, that in the last year a Bill had been brought in to alter the laws respecting the Apothecaries' Company, and that Petitions praying for alterations were poured in from Edinburgh, Glasgow, Aberdeen, and other towns of Scotland. No complaints had been made against that Bill, except on the ground, that it did not carry alterations far enough. The laws, as they now stood, were subject to general and well-founded complaints; he would not, however, detain the House,
 234
 Mr. Warburton  said, that at present, the certificate of qualification, from the College of Surgeons, or from the Apothecaries' Company, was not always sufficient for practice, even in England, for the army and navy Medical Boards instituted strict inquiries into the acquirements of all gentlemen, before they were allowed to receive commissions. The same caution was exercised by the East India Company. The Commissioners of Inquiry into the Scotch Universities had complained, that men of medical science, as physicians, should be compelled to undergo five years' service, merely to learn the menial duties of the Apothecaries' shop. He did not complain of the Apothecaries' Company. The members of it had endeavoured to raise the standard of medical science and reputation; and had done all that men could do, under the difficult circumstances in which they were placed.
 Mr. Warburton  regarded this Motion as most important, and he hoped he should have to congratulate the House on its success. He looked upon it as one of the most important results of the Reform Bill; indeed, he was not sure that it was not the most important, as regarded the good conduct of the Members. He remembered, that when a meeting was held at the chambers of a certain person, a great and important meeting, for the purpose of arranging a plan that was expected to terminate in the defeat of the Tory Ministry—he remembered, that the greatest importance was attached to securing accurate lists of the division, and the individuals who undertook the task of obtaining them, were over and over again charged to spare no pains to make them correct. If this were felt so important to the Reforming Interest on the eve of such a division—if all great parties in private admitted the importance of accuracy in these particulars, how was it that they had so long delayed obtaining that to which the public, as well as themselves, attached the greatest importance. But then it was urged that this great result could not be accomplished. Where was the difficulty? It was most mechanical. Could not clerks go from bench to bench, and take down the names; and if these clerks were not sufficiently numerous, let them pay another; if one were not enough, let them get two, three, or even four. Where was the difficulty?
 Mr. Hardy  was inclined to doubt, whether, according to the wording of the Act of Parliament, the annuity was payable after Prince Leopold became the Sovereign of a foreign State, in which he
 227 l l
 Mr. Hume  rose, to move to refer to a Select Committee, the Return of Expenses charged by Returning Officers at the Election of Members for Counties and Boroughs in England and Wales, at the last General Election, with the view of fixing an uniform rate of charge at every Election, and of considering by whom the charges should be paid. One of the great objects of the Reform Bill was to limit the expenses of elections, and for that purpose many propositions were made at the discussion on the Bill. The 71st clause of the Reform Act related to the subject; but it was not sufficiently explicit. He was, therefore, desirous to have the matter referred to a Committee; and he was the more desirous to see that course pursued, as the Returns were imperfect, and required amendment. His own opinion with respect to election expenses, had been, and was, that the candidate ought to pay nothing; that the county ought to bear the burthen; for a Member ought to be elected for the good of the constituents electing him, and not for his own interest, and therefore the public ought to bear the expense. And that feeling was in accordance with the old principle of election, which threw the charges of the election, and even the support of the elected on the electors. That some uniform charge ought to be adopted appeared to him to be quite evident. In his own case he knew that the Sheriff construed the law as to what were legal expenses differently from what some other Sheriffs did, and, therefore, it was plain the law required fixing. By the Returns which he wished to be referred to a Committee, it appeared, that the actual constituency had fallen greatly short of the number anticipated at the period of the passing of the Reform Bill. It appeared, that in the 128 counties in England and Wales, there were registered 317,594 electors, and that in the 255 boroughs there were
 228 l l l l l l 229 l l l l l l l l l l l l l s l s 230 l
 Mr. Hume  had great doubts as to whether any person not a subject of the British Crown, was entitled to receive a pension from this country. The House, at the time the pension was originally granted, could never have entertained the remotest conception of the possibility of the contingency which had since then arisen. The House, therefore, in his (Mr. Hume's) opinion, ought most certainly to reconsider what had then been done. This would be only doing justice to all parties concerned in the matter.
 Mr. Hume  differed from the Noble Lord, for he thought the subject would fairly come before the Committee as a matter of expense to the candidate. He would not, however, make any alteration in the terms of his Motion with a view of bringing it within the inquiry more immediately than as a matter of expense.
 Mr. Hume  said, that he thought it highly absurd, that surgeons who had passed through severe examinations were not allowed to dispense medicines in this country. He had himself gone through all his examinations, yet he dared not compound medicines for sale, though he considered himself as capable to do so as any apothecary in the land. It was highly necessary that surgeons should possess the power of dispensing drugs; for, in small country towns, the medical practitioner was generally physician, surgeon, and apothecary, at once. He should like to see the examination of medical men conducted in open Court, as was the practice on the Continent; but he was sorry to say, that with respect to medical science, this country was in a state of barbarism as compared with France. He should vote for the proposed inquiry.
 Mr. Hume  suggested, that the system of having unpaid Magistrates should be done away with altogether. He believed, that such Magistrates thought more of preserving game than any thing else, and so administered the laws, as to provoke rather than prevent crime.
 Mr. Hume  expressed his great gratification at the way in which the Motion had been met by the noble Lord opposite. The noble Lord had said that the present system furnished correct lists; but he had not taken into consideration the great labour which it threw on certain individuals. His noble friend knew how difficult it was to count both sides of the House. For his own part, he did not like to go on both sides. He would refer only to what had taken place during the present Session. There had been only two divisions published yet. The first of these was so incorrect, that he believed half the Members put down in it on one side were not in the House that evening; and it had required the greatest labour and trouble
 245
 Mr. Rigby Wason  was confident one day would be sufficient to take the poll whether in a county or a borough, and therefore urged the hon. Member so to frame his motion as to bring the subject under the consideration of the Committee.
 Mr. Cobbett  rose: The noble Lord said he hoped the House would not entertain the proposition of taking away the annuity, and said that it was secured to the Prince by law. If there was a law for giving him 50,000 l 222 l l 223
 Mr. Gillon  was much surprised to learn from the statement which had that evening been made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer,
 226
 Mr. Gillon  would vote for the appointment of the Committee. He complained that the Apothecaries' Act, as it now stood, prevented the Licentiates of Scotland and Ireland practising in the Sister Kingdom. They had to undergo a five years' apprenticeship to learn what they already knew; and, in fact, the Act operated only as a most injurious monopoly. At a period when Government was putting an end to all monopolies, it was singular, that the monopoly of mind alone should remain. The monopoly of the Apothecaries' Company was injurious to the country at large, and particularly so to the teachers of the medical art. He had heard complaints against the law from every part of the kingdom.
 Mr. Hall  seconded the Motion, and expressed a hope, that, if the answer of Ministers should be unsatisfactory, the hon. member for Worcester would follow up his Motion by another; and if not, he would himself bring the subject before the House.
 The Speaker : If I understand the hon. Member, it is his intention to substitute the words of his notice of Motion for the 27th of March for those of the Motion now before the House?
 The Speaker : I apprehend, that, according to the rules of the House, the hon. Member cannot bring forward his Motion before the time fixed by his notice; he cannot, therefore, bring that forward as an Amendment which he could not submit as an original Motion.
 Mr. Ward  rose to bring on his Motion for giving greater publicity to the Divisions of the House. He had undertaken this subject with the permission of the hon. member for Colchester, who had had the merit of introducing it during the last Session of Parliament; and in doing so, he requested the indulgence of the House, for bringing the question so early under its reconsideration. One reason for doing this was, that he believed justice was not done to the Motion on the former occasion,—he did not mean by the hon. member for Colchester, whose talents he admired, but by the House, whose attention was then occupied by the consideration of many other, and apparently more imme
 240 241 Loud cries of toto cælo 242 243
 Mr. Jervis  regarded the Bill of the noble Lord, if similar to that which had been introduced last Session, as one whose object was not to remove technical difficulties, but to confer on the Magistrates, who already possessed too much influence, an increase of power to an alarming extent.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  seconded the Motion. A great many individuals, well fitted, both by their talents and integrity, for a seat in that House, would come forward as candidates, if the expenses at elections were fixed and limited. He most cordially agreed with the hon. member for Middlesex, that the expenses of elections should be defrayed by the country at large. The conclusion among the people, or, at least, among a large portion of the people, was, that when Members paid such large sums, in the shape of election expenses, for a seat in that House, they would take care
 231
 Sir Samuel Whalley  answered in the affirmative.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  observed, that he had already given notice of a motion on this subject to appoint a Select Committee to inquire into the application of this annuity of 50,000 l 225
 Lord Althorp  said, that he did not intend to object to the Motion; but, at the same time, after what had passed, it was necessary that he should offer a few observations to the House. The hon. Member had said, that Prince Leopold was supposed, during his residence in this country, to have been a man careful of his money; but the hon. Member must be aware, that, without being guilty of extravagance, his Royal Highness might, from the circumstance of making a purchase, or from other causes, have exceeded his income. The amount of Prince Leopold's incumbrances was not known at the time he wrote the letter to Earl Grey; and, in consequence of that circumstance, the persons whom he had nominated as trustees, refused to act; and, up to the present time, there were, in fact, no acting trustees. Previous to the meeting of Parliament, two letters on this subject had
 219 Marlborough House, February 2. My Lord,—I am commanded by his Majesty the King of the Belgians, to inform your Lord ship, that the pecuniary engagements and outstanding debts of his Majesty, in this country, are nearly liquidated, and will be entirely so on the 5th of April next; that, after paying the sum yet remaining to be discharged out of the April quarter, and providing for the necessary expenditure until the ensuing quarter becomes payable, according to his Majesty's communication to Earl Grey, previous to his quitting this country, there will be a large surplus, which will be paid into the Exchequer in the course of the month of April. It has been already communicated to your Lordship, that, in August, 1832, his Majesty was anxious to place the income under the control of the trustees, but that they declined beginning to act in the trust until his Majesty's private affairs in this country had been entirely settled. As the sum remaining to be liquidated can be now ascertained, it is my intention to address his Majesty's trustees, to induce them immediately to enter upon the trust; but should they decline to do so, until all the incumbrances are discharged,—that is to say, until after the 5th of April next, your Lord ship may be assured, that the first payment into the Exchequer will be made in April next; and from that period no impediment will exist to the trustees commencing their trust.—I have the honour to subscribe myself, my Lord, your obedient and humble servant, Baron de STOCKMAR, Controller and Private Secretary. To the Right Hon. Viscount Althorp, &c. Marlborough House, Feb. 2. My Lord.—In addition to the letters which I have had the honour of addressing to your Lordship this day, I think it proper to direct your attention to the circumstance, that the amount of his Majesty the king of the Belgians pecuniary engagements and outstanding debts, due at the time of his quitting this country, could not, as his Majesty then stated to Earl Grey, be ascertained with precision. They have been found to amount to nearly 83,000 l l 220 How far this communication may be considered requisite on my part, according to the spirit of the letter under which his Majesty's income in this country has been, and is to be, appropriated, I submit entirely to your Lord ship's better judgment; and I have the honour to subscribe myself, your Lordship's most obedient humble servant, Baron de STOCKMAR To the Right Hon. the Viscount Althorp, &c. 221
 Lord Althorp  said, that when notorious corruption was proved, it would be the duty of the House to disfranchise the borough. All must admit that, from the reform which had taken place in the representation, such practices could not continue, and the system of corrupt boroughs must be put an end to.
 Lord Althorp  thought it was a fair question whether the suggested alteration might not hereafter be carried into effect, but it could not properly come within the scope of the inquiry which it was proposed the present Committee should institute.
 Lord Althorp  took this opportunity of answering a question twice put to him on former days; it was, whether Ministers intended to introduce any measure for the establishment of Local Courts? He was now enabled to state, that such was the intention of the Government, and they thought it best that the Bill for the purpose should originate in that House.
 Lord Althorp  said, his hon. friend had done him justice in saying, that he had merely opposed the Motion of the hon. member for Colchester on the question of its practicability. He never objected to the publication of divisions; and he certainly thought that, if they were published, the more correctly, the better. He certainly felt great doubt that his hon. friend would be able to produce a plan that was likely to be practicable. His hon. friend had not stated his plan to the House; and
 244
 Lord Howick  rose, for the purpose of moving for leave to bring in a Bill, to vender more effectual proceedings before Justices of the Peace. The measure he should have the honour to introduce, was almost precisely similar to that which had been brought forward last Session, but which the multifarious business of pressing importance had prevented from being passed into law. He would not, therefore, trouble the House with any observations explanatory of its objects, further than to say, that it was principally proposed by it to remove those technical difficulties which at present prevented the satisfactory administration of justice, in certain cases, before Justices of the Peace. By one of its most important clauses, the public would also be relieved from the very oppressive use, which was sometimes made, by common informers, of penal Acts of Parliament, by which  minimum minimum 239
 Mr. O'Connell  might be permitted just to say, that the Committee had done him the honour to send for him to be present at their proceedings; but that when he came into the room, he had stated his extreme unwillingness to remain there in the doubtful capacity of adviser, when he had no right to take part in the proceedings as a member of the Committee. He had, therefore, totally declined attending, until the House had decided the point now in question.
 Lord John Russell  was anxious chiefly for a little time for consideration, and certainly did not mean to oppose any obstacle to the choice of the hon. member for Dublin. It was not to be forgotten, however, that the public character and private honour of the member for Hull were likewise involved. It would be hardly fair that the hon. and learned member for Dublin should have the opportunity of putting all his questions with the ability he was known to possess, in favour of his friend, and that no other Member should be present for the same purpose on behalf of the member for Hull.
 Lord John Russell  wished the Motion to be made to-morrow. In itself it seemed a very extraordinary proposition, after
 250
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  hoped that the proceedings of the Committee would be stayed until the point was decided. The question was one of a most ridiculous nature to be submitted to the solemn adjudication of a Committee.
 Mr. Grote  was quite ready to defer the Motion till to-morrow. He begged again to say, that it proceeded from the unanimous wish of the Committee, and from no other quarter.
 Mr. Grote  said, that as Chairman of the Committee of Privileges, now sitting, he had been requested to submit a Motion for the addition of one Member to the present number of the body. It would be recollected, that when the hon. and learned member for Dublin (Mr. O'Connell) moved for the appointment of the Committee, he not only abstained from inserting his own name in the list, although it had been the almost invariable practice that the mover should take the Chair; but, from peculiar feelings of delicacy, he had omitted all who were in any way, whether publicly or privately, connected with the hon. member for Tipperary (Mr. Sheil). Immediately they entered upon their inquiry, the Committee arrived at a strong conviction that they should not be able to prosecute it to their own satisfaction, or with a certainty of doing complete justice to the hon. member for Tipperary, unless some Member were added to the Committee in whom that hon. Member could implicitly confide, and by whose advice he was willing at all times to be guided. It was, therefore, proposed that the name of Mr. O'Connell should be added to the list of the Committee. He had only further to state, that this Motion emanated from the unanimous wish of the Committee, and that the hon. member for Tipperary had neither suggested nor encouraged it.
 Mr. Sinclair  begged to ask whether it was the intention of Government to make any inquiry regarding the Glasgow Lottery? and suggested that a Committee should be appointed, to consider in what manner any further drawings might be put a stop to, and to take measures to provide against any future Lotteries of the same nature.
 Mr. Warburton  observed, that the Member proposed to be added was to act somewhat in the capacity of nominee. If the question had not been formally put, there was not a single dissentient voice to the proposition that the present Motion should be made. It was the anxious desire of the Committee that the hon. member for Tipperary should have some friend present during the examination of the witnesses upon whom he could rely, and he trusted that the House would not object to the appointment of the hon. and learned member for Dublin.
 Mr. Warburton  begged to call the attention of the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to a Petition which he held in his hand from Mr. Hatchett, of Belle-Vue house, Chelsea, a gentleman well known in the scientific world, who had a beneficial interest in a fund in the Bank of England, which had stood in the name of the late Henry Fauntleroy, as sole trustee of the property. Upon an application being made to the Bank for the payment of the fund, subsequent to the death of Fauntleroy, and for the appointment of a new trustee in his situation, an answer was returned by the Bank that the property to which Fauntleroy was trustee had, by reason of his conviction, become an escheat to the Crown. As soon as this answer was made to the person beneficially interested, he had resort to the advice of counsel, and obtained the very best opinion in his power. There being a considerable difference of opinion among the counsel as to the right construction of the law in such a case, and it being the opinion of many that the property had become escheated to the Crown, he was advised not to oppose the inquisition on the part of the Crown, but to accept back the property, which was escheated, from the Crown as a grant. An inquest was accordingly held, though he could not say in what manner it was conducted—whether in some dark hole or corner of the city, with a Jury who acted just as they were told by the Crown officers, or otherwise, but the consequence was, that the property was declared to have become an escheat to the Crown, and in conformity with that decision it had been escheated. When the party came to inquire how the property was to be obtained back from the Crown, he found upon an examination of the Stamp Act, that though in all cases of real property
 247 l s ad valorem l l 248 pro forma
 Mr. Hume  rose to ask a question of his Majesty's Ministers on a point that had been talked of a good deal out of the House. He wished to know what arrangement had been made by the Government when the office held by the late Lord Grenville was given to Lord Auckland. Was Lord Auckland to hold that office consecutively with his present? It was generally understood that, by the Act applicable to that office, that office should cease with the demise of its late holder. But it now appeared that it was, emoluments and all, still in existence. What
 252
 The Speaker  reminded the hon. Member that it would not be necessary to put any restraint upon the Committee. The hon. member for London had stated, that it was the unanimous opinion of the Committee that justice could not be done, and the inquiry duly prosecuted, unless the additional Member were appointed. Therefore, whether the present question were or were not postponed, reliance might safely be placed in the Committee either as to the course or speed of its proceedings.
 Sir Robert Inglis  had stated, when the case came formerly under the consideration of the House, that in his opinion a Bill ought to pass for the prevention of this lottery. He saw no difference between the circumstances then and now, and he Still was of opinion that the subject should be taken into consideration. He trusted
 253
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that there had been not one lottery, but three lotteries under the Act in question; and it was extraordinary, that neither the Member who took charge of the Bill nor the Solicitor who carried it through the House had had the slightest conception that it was the intention to make it the means of bearing a lottery. He thought it a public scandal that such a Bill had ever passed that House. He did not think that evil would come of publicly discussing the subject. It would, he hoped, open the eyes of the public, and prevent them from buying tickets. He concurred with the Members who had previously spoken on the propriety of preventing such Bills passing in future, and observed, that in the Bill in question the word lottery was not so much as once mentioned. He thought the whole matter disreputable to the Legislature, and hoped, by way of punishing the projectors for the fraud they had practised, that it might prove a losing concern to them.
 Sir Robert Peel  entered into the feelings of the noble Lord, but begged to remark that the hon. member for Hull was not a party accused.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the opinion that the hon. Member should belong to the Committee, was unanimous. The charge personally affected a Member of the House, and it was considered very important that he should have somebody present who was possessed of his entire confidence. He had thought that the individual who moved for the Committee, would have been a member of it, and would have acted in that capacity, and not merely as  amicus curiœ
 Lord Althorp  said, he was not sorry he was asked such a question. Much unnecessary and unfounded representation was made on the subject. From the state of the law relative to the Exchequer, it was found necessary that an officer should be appointed without delay. No money could be issued without the signature of the auditor. The appointment was one, not of choice, but of necessity. It was not intended that Lord Auckland should enjoy the emoluments of both offices, neither did his Lordship accept the office on any such understanding. He accepted it subject to any regulation the House might make. Nay, more: he took it on the condition that he would receive no salary while holding at the same time the office of President of the Board of Trade. In case the Bill regulating the office should pass, it was intended that, in place of the present salary of 4,000 l l
 Lord Althorp  said, that the subject had been before under the consideration of the House, when it was suggested that it would be unfair to put a stop to the Lottery at that time, as part had been drawn, and people who held tickets would lose their money. He regretted much that such a Bill had passed, and he trusted that means would be found to prevent the recurrence of such a circumstance in future.
 Lord Althorp  said, he had not the least hesitation in saying, that the statements which had been made showed a case of very extreme hardship. With respect to the individual, it was well known to the hon. Member, that he (Lord Althorp) had
 249
 Mr. Maxwell  said: Sir, I trust the statement of the member for Kilkenny has attracted the sympathy of every one in this House, and trust, also, that some Member from that part of the empire will afford us an opportunity of assisting in promoting residence there, and providing means of employment and relief for Irishmen in their native country. Whatever may be the disposition of the House in favour of absentee taxes, and taxes for the support of those who are destitute, I feel persuaded that there is, in the United Empire, a universal wish for some enactments calculated to preserve to the Irish workmen the means of employment when in health, and of relief when unable to work, out of the funds which are now
 263
 Colonel Williams  declared that, not-with standing all that had been said against the Act of Elizabeth, he would affirm, that there never was a more benevolent measure than that by which a provision was made for the aged, the infirm, and the orphan. He spoke from an experience of a quarter of a century in the Administration of these laws; and he declared that it was not the laws themselves that caused the mischief, but their maladministration.
 Mr. Ruthven  considered that the present subject was one of the most important brought under consideration during the Session. He would consent to abolish a tax that fell so heavily on the industrious and poorer portion as the one alluded to did. With regard to the substitute for this source of income to the revenue, he supposed that a Property-tax was the dernier resort to the Government, but he (Mr. Ruthven) could not vote for a Property-tax with an Income-tax at the same time. If the reduction were to be made in any such fertile source of revenue as the present tax, the best mode of meeting the deficiency would be, by a corresponding reduction of great establishments. The public faith should be supported; and the Exchequer stood now in the situation of a bank, which must cither enter into a composition, or suffer bankruptcy. The great expences which at present oppressed the country should be diminished; an equitable arrangement of the public debt should be made, if possible; and in the now precarious state of the financial department, he did not see how it was to be done, unless by lowering the rate of interest paid on it. Such would be, perhaps, the safest mode of adjusting the desirable compromise.
 Mr. O'Connell  rose, in pursuance of the previous notice he had given, to move for an inquiry into the conduct of Baron Smith, an Irish Judge. The hon. and learned Member said, that his object in the Motion he was about to bring before the House, was one which he was not presumptuous
 273 in transitu 274 275 Nisi Prius 276 277 278 Hear. 279 280 281 282 283
 Colonel Evans  would reserve his observations until the question came in a formal shape before the House. The hon. member for Marylebone had truly stated, that the existence of those taxes, and making their payments necessary to the retention of the elective franchise, had a tendency to produce corruption amongst voters. The House had had many instances brought before it, showing that that was the consequence; and many Members had been applied to to pay the taxes of electors to enable them to vote. It was true, that that part of the Metropolis from whence the petition came derived great advantage over other parts of the country, from the resisidence of the aristocracy; but it was also true, that the Metropolis bore a much larger share of taxation than any other part or district of the country. In local and direct taxes it paid as much as three millions; and Mr. Marshall, who published some tables under the authority of this House, had, in a note at the foot of one of them, observed upon the extraordinary irregularity which governed the imposition of those taxes. It appeared that the city of Westminster alone, with a population of only 200,000, was assessed to the House and Window taxes to a greater amount than Scotland with a population of 2,500,000; and it could not be denied, that the property in Scotland was ten times greater than that in Westminster. That partiality towards the aristocracy of that city, and towards the property of Scotland, could not, by possibility, be car-
 270 l l
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  was sure that the hon. and learned Gentleman who spoke last, would admit, that he, at least, was not in the habit of yielding systematically to the representations or motions of the hon. member for Dublin. He was not, he hoped it would be acknowledged, generally actuated by a desire to promote the views of that hon. and learned Member, or at all disposed to hesitate in opposing him, whenever the occasion rendered opposition necessary. He much regretted that any attempt should have been made to render the present a party question; it ought by no means to be viewed in that light, and he must confess that the tone adopted by the hon. and learned member for the
 297 298 299 O'Connell 300 301
 Mr. Stanley : Docs the hon. and learned Gentleman mean to say that this Judge—the oldest on the bench, and one for whom I may be permitted to say in my conscience I highly honour, while I regret the situation in which he has placed himself—does the hon. and learned Gentleman, I ask, mean to say, that this learned Judge sat in Court for two successive days, from half-past eleven o'clock in the morning, till six in the evening on the first day, and again from half-past eleven in the night till seven in the morning on the next day?
 Mr. Stanley  resumed. He said, that the point to which he wished to call the attention of the House was this:—that there were but two nights on which the Court sat after six o'clock in the evening—that, on one occasion, it sat the whole night, and on another it sat till twelve o'clock. Now, he could conceive no state of inconvenience which could justify a Judge in bringing on the cases of fourteen separate prisoners, many of them charged with capital offences, between the hours of six o'clock in the evening and six in the morning. Whether any justificatory circumstances could be shown, it was not for him to say, but he must declare, that in his opinion the case was one which could not pass without inquiry. The hon. and learned Gentleman said, he was anxious to support the authority of the Judges, and uphold the administration of justice in Ireland. He gave the hon. and learned Gentleman credit for being animated by the best intentions, but, in his opinion, the authority of Judges would be best supported by taking care that, in the event of any doubtful case occurring, no attempt to prevent a full and public inquiry into it should be allowed to succeed. Such being his view—wishing to cast no imputation on Baron Smith, for whom he entertained the most unfeigned respect—being still less anxious to do anything which could have a tendency to subvert the authority of the law, and least of all feeling desirous, by any one act of his, to countenance agitation in Ireland, whether predial or political; but believing that the authority of the law would be best upheld by showing the people that in the British House of Commons the interests of Ireland were not less attended to, than the interests of England; and thinking that a case, on its very face, appearing to be a deviation from the ordinary rules of the administration of justice, had been made out for inquiry—he should vote for investigation, though he should have resisted any Motion having for its object the removal of Baron Smith with disgrace from the bench.
 Mr. Pryme  begged pardon for present-
 311
 The Solicitor General  said, the cheer which had attracted the notice of the hon. Baronet (Sir R. Inglis) had proceeded from the astonishment he felt at hearing the analogy which had been drawn between the army and the judicial bench, and the inference drawn by the hon. Baronet, that as the army was left to the King, so should
 316 317 ex-officio 318
 Mr. Halcombe  rose to express his astonishment at the motion which was now proposed for the consideration of the House, and to answer the constitutional argument which was involved in this subject. It was contrary to the law of the land for an inquiry like this, even at the instance of his Majesty's Ministers, to be entered into by Parliament. He differed entirely in opinion from those who had addressed the House in support of this motion. Such a motion as this was calculated to do much harm. Striking, as it did, at the independence of the bench, and unsettling, as it did, the whole system of judicature—establishing a precedent of the most dangerous character, the ultimate consequences of which none could pretend to foresee; it behoved that House, and more especially His Majesty's Government, to act with more caution and circumspection than they now seemed disposed to do, acting under the suggestion, as it were, and at the bidding of the hon. member for Dublin. A subject of such vital interest to the country as that which affected the independence and dignity of the bench, ought not to be agitated in that House as a party question. It was a question touching the administration of justice and the dignity of the
 323 324 Hatsell's Precedents 325
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  congratulated the country and the House upon the fact that, at all events, one of his Majesty's Ministers was not satisfied to consign over an aged Judge to the fury of the agitator of Ireland. He felt in common with the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham), who had done himself so much honour by the speech which he had just delivered. The hon. member for Armagh had convinced him that on one point no charge could be sustained against Baron Smith. It was well known to those hon. Members whose duty it was to attend at the Old Bailey, that the Judges retired from the Court at five o'clock, and that then the Recorder and his assistants proceeded to try causes until ten o'clock or later. The House had heard from the gallant Member (Colonel Verner) that Baron Smith,
 337
 Mr. Baring  said, the result of this discussion was so far satisfactory, inasmuch as it proved that in a question of so much importance as the independence of the Judges, all party considerations should be set aside; that such a question was much too grave a one to be decided by ordinary feelings. He was not surprised at the course pursued upon that occasion by the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham). In fact no two of his Majesty's Ministers were agreed in their view of the question. The right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary for Ireland, altered his opinion, and that
 341
 Mr. Baring  proceeded. The great hardship of the situation in which the learned Judge had been placed was fully made out by the explanation. Must not the learned Judge, in consequence of the communication made to him by the member for the University of Dublin, have been fully convinced that Government did not mean to support any such Motion as this? No two of the Gentlemen who spoke from the opposite side agreed in their view of the question. The noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) said, he could not support such a motion, unless with a view to the removal of the learned Judge, if there should appear, upon inquiry, that there was sufficient ground for it. No Minister could support such a Motion with any other view. The right hon. Secretary said, his object was to protect him; and the noble Lord said, that even if the charges were proved, they would form no ground for removal from the bench. No two, therefore, of the Ministers agreed upon the point. With respect to the mixing up of political discussion and political allusions, in a charge to a Grand Jury,—before they proceeded further upon the Motion, they should first have before them the precise nature of the charge, and the facts upon which it was proposed to support it. They would not condemn even a waiter at the Custom.
 343 344
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  begged to address a few words to the House in reference to a communication he had had with the learned Judge. He begged to say that three or four days ago he received a letter from the learned Judge respecting the course which he might feel it his duty to adopt in reference to this subject. He had stated in reply, that wholly ignorant as he then was of the extent of the Motion which the hon. and learned member for Dublin intended to bring forward, he felt that a strong case, indeed, should be made out to justify any Motion for the removal of the learned Baron from the bench; but that before he (Mr. Stanley) had heard the charge and the evidence on the subject, he must decline to go into it. Having now heard the charge, and the evidence upon which it was brought forward, he felt it his duty as an honest man to declare, that he did not think there was a sufficient case to call for the learned Baron's removal from the bench; but that he did think a sufficient case had been made out for inquiry and investigation. He would not trouble the House much longer; but he would remind those who cried "Spoke" that he had not spoken upon the amendment. He would merely repeat what he had already said, that having heard the case, he did not think that it was one that would justify the removal of Baron Smith from the bench, but that it did seem to him one which rendered it essential for the House to inquire whether or not that learned person had been pursuing a course of proceeding detrimental to the interests of justice. It was with those sentiments, and with no wish to disparage the character of that learned Judge, that he (Mr. Stan-
 346
 Mr. O'Connell  in reply, wished to bring back the attention of hon. Members to the true position of the case. He had not moved for an impeachment, or, in other words, for removal; for he felt that such a course would be opposed, and successfully too. He asked not for condemnation, but simply for inquiry; and this on two grounds: first, for neglect of duty; and next, for abuse of duty, in mixing up with the performance of it political partisanship. He asked for inquiry, because Baron Smith, a Judge of the land, was a partisan; because he was not an impartial arbiter, or, at all events, was not looked on as such; because the people must suspect that the sources of justice were not clear—its administration not even-handed. He did it that the law should be respected—above all taint—and above all suspicion. Here was an absolute partizan, in a situation which empowered him to adjudicate on the lives and properties of thousands, and on their opinions, he having previously made up his mind and condemned them.
 347 348 naiveté gravamen 349
 Lord John Russell  said, he had not intended to take any part in the present discussion; but seeing that it was accompanied with circumstances of a very painful nature, and that it had excited a lively interest in the House, he did not think that he should be doing his duty if he voted in favour of the proposed inquiry, without shortly stating his grounds for doing so. His noble friend, if he would permit him to call him so, who had just sat down, had said, that it was discreditable to the Government to come down to the House with the intention of refusing an inquiry, and immediately afterwards to change their minds and acquiesce in such inquiry. His right hon. friend (Mr. Littleton), however, had stated that the reason of their acquiescing was, because the motion had been materially altered. Instead of being a motion for removing the learned Baron from the Bench, it was now only a motion for inquiry. Upon the same grounds as had been stated by his right hon. friend, he would support the motion for an inquiry. He did not think that the charges, though grave, were of such an extent as, even if fully proved before the Committee, would authorise them to vote an address to his Majesty, praying for the removal of Baron Smith from the Bench. But without concurring in that, what he would ask, were the circumstances of the case? An inquiry was asked for, because there was a want of readiness and punctuality on the part of the learned Judge—in itself a grave charge; and
 339 340
 Lord Tullamore  said, having the honour of being on terms of great intimacy with Baron Smith, he could not hear the charges made against him by the hon. and learned member for Dublin without, before the House went to a division, making some observations. They had been asked if a judge under a Tory Government had made a liberal charge from the bench, what could be the treatment he would receive? Now, he would refer the House at once to a case in point. In the year 1814 a political charge was made from the bench by Mr. Justice Fletcher—a charge in which the conduct of the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel), the then Secretary for Ireland, was strongly animadverted upon. That charge was afterwards published by that learned Judge, and, in the preface to it, he took credit to himself for its strong and solely political character. But the Tory Government of that day did not adopt the course which the Whig Government was now pursuing. They felt that that learned Judge was at liberty to make the charge he did, and they consequently took no notice of it. The noble Lord, referring to the charge of Mr. Baron Smith delivered in the Commission Court of Dublin, said, it was true that there were no political crimes in the calendar to which it could have reference; but at the time it was delivered, in a neighbouring county, in the county of Kildare, a learned gentleman who was as near as could be to being a judge, a gentleman who wore a silk gown, had addressed an assemblage of 40,000 persons in the most inflammatory language, pointing to a ruin which stood be-
 350
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  said, that he heard much said about Irish and Scotch vagrants, and about sending them back to their own country. He should very much wish to be informed by the hon. member for Marylebone where the extraordinary influx of Scotch paupers came from? Let it be considered, that an Englishman, after a residence of three years in Scotland, became entitled to parochial relief, but a Scotchman in this country could not obtain such a settlement. Under these circumstances, he thought that they ought not to be twitted with Scotch vagrants. He would take leave to say, that those complaints came with a very bad grace from the metropolis. He would remind the hon. Member, who had presented the petition, of the enormous sums which the metropolis drew from the whole country. For six months of the year, the whole of the Aristocracy of England was resident in the metropolis, and the whole of their property was spent there. If any one would take the trouble to look to the state of the metropolis, while the Aristocracy was resident, and whilst they were absent, he would find a very great difference indeed. The complaints were, in his opinion, unjust and unfounded, and the hon. Member, before making any observations on such a petition, ought to view with caution the statements contained in it, and to take into
 262
 Mr. O'Dwyer  thought it rather inconsistent in English Members, who were such strenuous advocates of the legislative Union, to advocate the course enforced by his hon. friend, the member for Marylebone. If there were really a union between the countries, it was surely unjust in the extreme, to contemplate the exclusion of any portion of the Irish people from this country. At all events, for the sake of impartiality, and in furtherance of the reciprocity system, he hoped the House would not limit itself to sending back the pauper—he trusted that when the poor vagrants were sent back to Ireland, the rich vagabonds would receive orders to march with them. Since he had the honour of a seat in that House, he had not heard one complaint uttered against the parochial settlement in Marylebone of Irish absentees. There was the most unrestricted intercourse of opulent interlopers permitted; and he would take leave to say, that whilst a considerable portion of the four or five millions of absentee rents were expended in the metropolis, the good citizens were scarcely to be pitied, if there were appended to this enjoyment, the inconvenience of supporting some of the paupers that absenteeism created. He begged, however, to say, although he thought the restoration to Ireland of the protection of a domestic legislature would be the best means of relieving the general distress, there were means of easy adoption that would eradicate that Irish pauperism of which the English people complained. He attributed to absenteeism almost all the sufferings of his countrymen. He thought that this was an evil of superior magnitude to all others that afflicted Ireland, and the fountain of abundant misery. One of its consequences was the wretchedness it entailed upon the poorer classes, who, deprived of their natural protectors, were left a prey to want and destitution. He would remedy this state of things by a simple process. There was in Ireland resident capital sufficient to purchase the property of absentees, if the legal impediments arising from entail family settlements, or other bars, were removed. He saw no reason why parliament should not legislate for the removal of those difficulties, taking care, as much as possible, to protect all interests, by applying to the purposes originally intended, all money arising from, the sale of property under
 259
 Mr. O'Dwyer , in seconding the Motion, begged that the House would allow him to explain a part of the learned Baron's charge affecting him. He had never accused the learned Baron of deliberate falsehood, although it was possible that he might have used a word resembling that in sound. But he said, distinctly, that he had never made such an assertion. He believed the noble Baron to be incapable of sacrificing truth to any thing.
 Mr. Littleton  said, that it had not been his lot, during the time that he held a seat in that House, to take part in a discussion which gave him so much pain, as that which
 284 285 286
 Mr. Littleton  begged to explain, he had expressly stated that a communication had taken place between the learned Recorder of Dublin and himself. The learned Gentleman had asked him what course Government meant to pursue in the case of Baron Smith, and he replied that he intended to oppose the Motion for removing the Judge, but that, at the same time, he should express himself with can-do and sincerity upon the charge against Baron Smith, and rather strongly too. The learned Recorder since then accused him of changing from his steadfast resolution to oppose the Motion; but the fact was, that he would have given his steadfast opposition to the Motion if it had not been altered. He would ask any hon. Member to look to the notice-book and judge for himself whether the Motion had not been materially altered by the hon. and learned member for Dublin, from what it was in that book. In that book the Motion was for the removal of the learned Judge, but the hon. member for Dublin now wished only for inquiry. Indeed, it was not until the hon. member for Dublin had nearly concluded his speech, that he had changed his intention of opposing the Motion. He thought he had thus completely absolved himself from the charge of the hon. Member.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  said, that he had not intended to take any part in this discussion; but he could not pass by what had been said by the hon. member for Waterford, without noticing it. He had intended, last Session, to bring forward some specific Motion for the improvement of Ireland. He had given notice of a Motion for the introduction of Poor-laws into that country; but, by the advice of several hon. Members, he had abstained from bringing forward his Motion. He intended, notwithstanding this, to bring forward such a Motion this Session. His great object would be to open a market for labour; and the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) informed him, that, he liked his (Mr. O'Connor's) system, and that a similar system had been acted upon by him (Lord Althorp)—namely, exciting competition by agricultural premiums. He thought, that the hon. Members who cavilled at the term "vagabonds" understood it in a wrong sense. He thought, that the hon. member for Marylebone meant it in a legal sense; and, consequently, meant nothing hurtful to the feelings of Irishmen. He differed entirely from the hon. member for Water-ford (Mr. Barron), with respect to the effects of the Poor-laws; and that hon. Member was wrong in supposing that Poor-laws would be injurious to the landed interest. The hon. member for Waterford seemed to be under an apprehension that his property would be injured. Now, it was not fair to assume, that because Poor-laws worked ill in this country, that a system of Poor-laws could not be devised, which would work well for Ireland. He certainly would support the introduction of Poor-laws into that country.
 Mr. Shaw : The right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary for Ireland, had said, that he felt himself placed in some difficulty on the present occasion. He was certain
 287 288 289 290 * * †Ibid. ‡Ibid. §Ibid. 291 292 293 294 295 296
 Mr. Shaw  said, the right hon. Gentle-
 302
 Mr. Shaw : The Court rose at seven on the following morning.
 Mr. Shaw , in explanation, said, when I before addressed the House, motives of delicacy restrained me from expressing how deeply I had felt the conduct pursued by the right hon. Gentleman in reference to the communications which had passed between us—but as the right hon. Gentleman has alluded to the subject, can now have no hesitation in declaring that I consider the right hon. Gentleman's explanation wholly unsatisfactory. First, as to the notice and Motion being differently worded—I see no substantial difference beyond the notice which had been merely general and vague, having now assumed a specific form. Next, as to the conversation itself. It was true, as stated by the right hon. Gentleman, that he assured me that the Government would oppose the Motion, and that while he (Mr. Littleton)
 342
 Mr. Sinclair  seconded the Motion. He hoped that this was not to be viewed as a party question. It involved the character of a high public functionary; and the grounds of charge against him should be fully and impartially considered. He did not think that a sufficient case had been established to justify the very grave proceeding which the House was called upon to adopt. In the case of a Judge, a vote for inquiry was almost equivalent to a vote of censure, and would inflict a deep wound on the feelings of an eminent individual, of whom no party had com-
 315
 Mr. Sinclair  would not follow the hon. and gallant Member through all the topics of his eloquent but somewhat discursive speech: but he would be glad to know on
 271 272
 Mr. George Frederick Young  said, he could not content himself with giving a silent vote upon this question, nor avoid expressing his concurrence with the hon. member for Kent, in the surprise and regret which he felt, that the right hon. Secretary for Ireland should have committed himself, by such an indiscretion, as giving a hasty and precipitate acquiescence in the Motion of the hon. member for Dublin. He regretted, that when the right hon. Gentleman was induced to change his own mind on an important question, he had not required time for the Government to consider what course it would be expedient to adopt, and also for the Members of that House to weigh maturely the measures which were proposed. With reference to the question itself, he had heard with much surprise—in common, he presumed, with the most of the English Members, who were only aware of the practice in this country, and
 332
 Mr. Barron  said, that the great majority of the gentry and Magistrates in his part of Ireland would, in conjunction with the people there, feel highly indignant if the House did not lend itself to this inquiry. They would have no confidence in the House if it did not do so; and its refusing such an inquiry would, he was sure, strike a fatal blow to the union of the two countries. It was not upon one, or two, or three, but on many occasions, that Mr. Baron Smith had delivered such extrajudicial charges as that of which the House had had a specimen that night. He hoped that hon. Members, in deciding that question, would not be biassed against the Motion by the political character of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had brought it forward. He could state, that other hon. Members, totally unconnected with that hon. Gentleman, had determined to bring the matter under the consideration of the House, and that they had only been prevented from doing so by the previous notice of the hon. and learned Gentleman on the subject. Let the House, he would say, decide the case not upon the merits or demerits of that hon. Member, but upon the facts as laid before it.
 Mr. Barron  said, that the complaints made by the hon. member for Marylebone were unfounded, unjust, and illiberal. A very great portion of the property of Ireland and of Scotland, was spent in the very place from which this petition came; and if the hon. Member were to move for a return of the number of Irish paupers in this country, he should feel it his duty to move for a similar return of the number of proprietors from Ireland, who spent their fortunes in the parish of Marylebone. The petitioners, in his opinion, had taken a narrow and most illiberal view of the subject. With regard to the introduction of Poor-laws into Ireland, he hoped that the House would not permit such a measure to be introduced into that country—a measure which had brought so much misery and crime into this country;—and in their anxiety to keep Irish paupers at home, to inflict the greatest curse upon Ireland that had ever been inflicted upon any nation. He most anxiously desired, that something efficacious should be done for the poor of Ireland, but he did not think that a poor rate levied upon land would effect that purpose. No man could be a resident proprietor, and not feel that it was impossible to avoid doing something for the poor. But there were many other means of relieving the poor better than Poor-laws. For instance, a national measure for reclaiming waste lands, for improving the national resources, for building bridges, laying canals, and such like, in all of which respects the country had been grossly neglected.
 Mr. Benett  presented a Petition from the Con-
 254
 Mr. Briscoe , in rising to support the prayer of the petition, observed, that he did so the more readily, because he trusted he should remove an impression which appeared to have existed at the meeting from which the Petition emanated, that he was unfriendly to the Repeal of the House and Window tax. On the contrary, he begged leave, in the most pointed and effectual manner, to impress upon Lord Al-thorp the wisdom and policy of abolishing such obnoxious imposts. The grievous inequality of the House-tax he believed no Gentleman in that House was inclined to deny. If there were those who would do so, he would beg to remind them, that there were two whole counties in which the highest rate of assessment to the house-
 266 l l l l
 Mr. Hardy  did not think, that the hon. member for Marylebone ought to have been found so much fault with for
 264
 Mr. Hardy  begged to be allowed to explain the reasons on which the vote he intended to give was founded. It appeared to him, that to adopt the Motion of the hon. and learned member for Dublin would be to set a precedent of great injustice. If the hon. and learned Member had intended to press so strongly the circumstance of the learned Judge's not coming into his Court until half-past
 333 334
 Mr. Plumptre  observed, that he did not know that he had ever been more deeply pained than he had been that evening on hearing; the determination of Government to accede to the Motion of the hon. and learned member for Dublin. He considered it, not only a most unhappy, but also a most unjust determination; for what, he would ask, was the whole amount of the charges brought against the learned Baron? It was simply this—that the learned Baron occasionally came into Court at a later hour than that which suited public convenience, and that he occasionally mixed too great a spice of politics in his judicial charges. He had not been charged with corruption,—he had not been charged with partiality—he had not been charged with injuring, by his late hours, any individual who had come under his jurisdiction; and yet this learned, able, and faithful Judge, the oldest Judge now on the bench, was to be brought before a Select Committee on such) trifling charges as these! He again repeated, that he was deeply pained by the determination of Ministers on this question. He thought it a most undesirable thing in the present state of this country, and still more so in the present state of Ireland. It would bring the Judges into disrepute—it would stop their mouths on a variety of important topics—and what was worse than all, it would seriously impede the course of justice.
 Mr. Walter  presented a Petition from a considerable number of owners and occupiers of land in the County of Berks. The petitioners said, that they had presumed to address the House, in consequence of their understanding it to be the intention of his Majesty's Ministers to introduce a Bill for effecting certain changes in the Tithe-laws. They complained that the demand of one-tenth part of the gross produce of the land by those who contribute nothing towards its production, is at variance with the dictates of reason and the principles of justice, and most oppressive in cases that frequently occur, when the value of the whole crop will not pay the expense of raising it. The petitioners, therefore, earnestly prayed that the subject of tithes might be taken into serious consideration, and that tithes might be permanently commuted, on the basis of supposing the tithe owner the tenth joint proprietor of the soil. But anxiously as they desired a change in the existing Tithe-laws, oppressive and unjust as they considered them, they would nevertheless prefer their continuance to the enactment of any other measure that would have the effect of exempting the holders of tithe property from bearing their just portion of all parochial and other assessments, thereby severing their interests from those of the rest of the community. It was not necessary for him on that occasion to say how far he might be disposed to go with the petitioners in the system which they would wish to have adopted for effecting the commutation of tithes; but he thought it necessary to state, that the petitioners were persons of high character and respectability, some of
 256
 Mr. John Young  wished to put the House in possession of a fact which had just been communicated to him by his hon. and learned friend, the member for the University of Dublin, and which might be considered material for hon. Gentlemen to know before the division took place. It was—that, in addition to being deserted by the Government, who promised and were to have defended him, Baron Smith was, up to that hour, ignorant that the charge of sitting at a late hour in the day, and of keeping his Court open at night, was to be renewed against him. It had been preferred and abandoned in the last Session. The hon. member for Middlesex had talked of equal justice to those aimed at in the Speech from the Throne, and to the learned Baron; but where was the equal justice? Was it not monstrous to institute such an inquiry without notice given, to afford means of defence, and prepare new defenders in place of those who had so unexpectedly and strangely failed the learned Baron? In the name of those he was politically acquainted with—in the name of the country Gentlemen, the Magistrates, and Grand Jurors of Ireland, whose sentiments he ventured to assert he was speaking—he protested, in the strongest and most decided terms, against that extraordinary and uncalled-for inquiry. The concluding paragraphs of the Speech from the Throne had given satisfaction to vast numbers of the population of the north of Ireland; and the appeal of his Majesty to the "loyal and well-affected, to come forward in aid of the Government with vigorous and united efforts," had found a response in many a breast. That appeal had done more to dissipate the apathy, and secure the cooperation of thousands, than all the long and eloquent epistles which a distinguished
 345
 Mr. Hume  said, the speech of the right hon. Baronet very much surprised him; for, since he had been in that House, he had never heard a more unconstitutional and completely Tory speech than that of the hon. and learned Member to whose arguments the right hon. Gentleman attached so much importance. He was, therefore, not surprised to hear it echoed
 336
 Mr. Potter  hoped, the hon. and learned member for Kilkenny would except the manufacturing districts from the censure of ill-treating Irishmen. He begged to say, that, in the town he was connected with (Manchester), Irishmen were treated as well as Englishmen. This was particularly the case in the distribution of the numerous charities which existed in that place. He could say the same of the town he had the honour to represent, where a great number of Irish resided. He never heard of work being refused to a man, because he was an Irishman. In his opinion, the cotton trade would not have got to its present enormous extent, without the assistance of Irish labourers.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  supported the petition. He rejoiced that two great measures had been passed for the relief of Dissenters and Catholics, which were most satisfactory as far as they went, but something further was desired. He must say that the conduct of the Catholics towards the Dissenters was highly creditable to them, it was at the same time but justice to the Dissenters to say that they had been the strenuous supporters of Catholic emancipation. By their powerful aid that triumphant measure, which reflects the
 255
 Mr. Serjeant Spankie  said, though there were strong and powerful objections to the mode of proceeding now sanctioned by Government, he would not stand upon them, but would take it for granted, that the delinquencies charged against the learned Baron could be proved, and would say that, even in that case, they would not be worth the time which must be expended in examining them in the Committee. It appeared from evidence which had been upon the Table of the House for the last ten months, that the learned Baron was late in coming into Court. Was that no offence? Yes, it was an offence; and that it was so considered, might, in common fairness, have been communicated by the Government to the learned Baron. Had such a communication been made, the offence might have been repented of altogether, without bringing into play so powerful an engine as the prosecution of a Judge by the Commons of England. They ought to reserve such a weapon for a fit occasion, and should not draw it at the call of every brawler. Another offence charged against the learned Baron was, that he had delivered a speech from the bench, in which he had entered into a discussion on the state of Ireland, and had made various reflections upon the parties by which that country was distracted. Granted that he had done all this,—what then? It was admitted on all hands, that if there had been in the calendar any transgression connected with the disturbed state of Ireland, the learned Judge would have been fully justified in offering to the Grand Jury the observations which he had addressed to them. Now he was in-
 330 331 Spatium requiemque furori sit.
 Dr. Lushington  said, that he had been requested by the very respectable body of petitioners who had attended the meeting to appear in his place in that House, to give the petition that support to which he conceived it entitled. He had never entertained a doubt of the expediency of repealing those taxes, and, he might almost add, of the necessity of proceeding to the speedy adoption of that measure. The numerous constituency which he (Dr. Lushington) represented were, of all others of his Majesty's subjects, those who suffered most under the pressure of the taxes called the House and Window taxes. They consisted of a very numerous class of persons, by far the larger portion earning their subsistence by their own industry, in trade and commercial pursuits. The inhabitants of the Tower Hamlets derived no
 267 s 268 269
 Mr. Christmas  said, that, as the Government had altered their opinion once already, the explanation of the hon. member for Armagh (Colonel Verner), that Baron Smith sat at late hours with the consent of counsel on both sides, ought to induce them to alter it again. It appeared to him that what the hon. member for Dublin had introduced as a make-weight, was to be in reality the means of carrying his Motion. If there had been nothing but late hours to complain of, the House would never have heard of this charge. Then, as to political harangues, he did not agree with the doctrine which had been laid down by the hon. Member on that subject. The right hon. Secretary for the Colonies had admitted that there were occasions which would justify political harangues. If any occasion could furnish such a justification, was not the condition of Ireland precisely that occasion, when large masses of the people, instigated by agitation, took the law into their own hands, and not content with attacking property, placed life itself in danger, and proceeded to extremities utterly subversive of all order? The learned Baron, no doubt, felt it his duty to impress upon the Grand Jury, as Magistrates, and preservers of the peace, the necessity of discountenancing proceedings so dangerous to the peace of society. He would ask, what good could come of inquiry? Suppose the learned Baron did come into Court at half-past eleven o'clock, was the House on that ground to address the Crown to remove him from his office? He was ready to concur in the opinion that political harangues might create in the minds of the people a suspicion of partiality where no partiality existed, but he was sure that Baron Smith possessed sufficient good sense to discontinue the practice, if he found that that House considered it inconsistent with the due administration of justice. Feeling that there was not sufficient ground to put the learned Baron upon his trial, he could not conscientiously vote for the inquiry.
 Mr. Finn  was surprised at the terms in which the hon. Gentleman (Sir Samuel Whalley) had talked of the Irish peasantry, who came to this country to seek employment. He knew these poor creatures well; they were wretchedly clad, wretchedly fed; and, when in their own country, extremely ill-housed. Their condition was the effect of the manner in which Ireland had been treated by these in whose hands her Government was placed, and was the result of that misgovernment which had continued for seven hundred years, and had reduced that fine country to such a state of distress. Mr. Pitt, in that House, had himself admitted the selfish and narrow policy adopted towards Ireland by this country—a policy which sacrificed all Irish interests to the jealousy of England. Lord Grenville had made the very same admission, and to this very hour those who governed that country were true to the same policy. The sums of money which it was said those wretched men were able to put together were exaggerated. He had made the most particular inquiries amongst two hundred of them, in the port of Liverpool, and he found that the largest sum which they had been able to collect did not exceed 30 s 260 l l 261
 Mr. Finn  said, that during ail his attendance in that House, he had never witnessed any conduct on the part of his Majesty's Government, better qualified than their conduct on the present occasion, to give confidence to the people of Ireland. Gentlemen were at liberty to laugh, but he would, nevertheless, repeat the assertion. Without naming individuals, he would merely mention as matter which came within his own knowledge, that at a particular period, circumstances connected with the promotion of an individual to the judicial bench, had produced consequences of which they had not yet reaped all the bitter fruits. The learned Judge, whose conduct was under consideration, had assailed him from the bench. Could the learned Judge point out an instance in which he had ever assaulted the learned Baron? The learned Judge
 329 l l
 Mr. Finn  begged leave to state, that the demands of this petition were very just, and that the Dissenters laboured under great hardships. The system of registration of marriages had worked well in Ireland, and with regard to burials, the present Lord Chancellor of Ireland had introduced a Bill to allow Catholics to be buried according to their own ritual and forms. That was but the legitimate course, and those who were most anxious for the Established Church would do well to concede the claims of the Dissenters. If the members of the Established Church, or if his Majesty's Government did resist them, the Dissenters might adopt a very easy mode—the same that was some years ago resorted to in Ireland. In Dublin the Catholics established cemeteries to bury their dead in, and the clergy were thus deprived of a great portion of their fees; the result was, that the clergy found it convenient very much to reduce their prices. The adoption of that mode by the Dissenters would have the effect of remedying some of the evils complained of.
 Colonel Verner  observed, that from information he had derived from a gentleman holding an official situation in Armagh, he had learned that the press of business on the occasion in question, had rendered the assistance of other Judges necessary. Had this course not been adopted, many of the cases could not have come on at all, and many of the prisoners must have been remanded until the next assizes. With regard to the charge of the learned Judge sitting the greater part of the night, he had ascertained that he had only done so at the express solicitation of the counsel on both sides, as the cases on the calendar were of such a nature, as not to admit of bail. The charge complained of, the gallant Colonel contended, was directed to allay the state of excitement in Ireland, and was not to be attributed to the wish to excite feelings of political animosity.
 Sir James Graham  said, that he never rose to deliver his opinion to the House
 335
 Sir James Scarlett  said, he had come down to the House without the least knowledge of what the subject of the debate was; to be. He had indeed seen a notice in the paper of the Motion to be brought forward by the hon. and learned member for Dublin, but expressed in terms which he did not believe would have met one concurrent voice. The notice he alluded to ran thus.—"To call the attention of the House to the conduct of Mr. Baron Smith, with a view to his removal from the bench." Such was the notice on the paper; and the hon. and learned Solicitor General had stated, that if the charges against that Judge were true, he ought to be removed from the bench. The right hon. Secretary for Ireland had communicated to the hon. and learned member for the University of Dublin, that it was his intention to oppose such a motion, and yet, while the proposed inquiry was evidently with a view to his removal from the bench, the right hon. Secretary turned round and declared his resolution to give it his support. He must express his conviction that the right hon. Secretary had not duly deliberated on the important consequences of carrying such a motion. Government ought not to support such a motion without having themselves instituted some preliminary investigations, and been prepared to say, that there was a fit occasion for following it up by an address to the Crown. They might declaim as much as they pleased about the independence of the Judges, but unless they had confidence in the protection of the Government, how could they discharge their functions? If this Motion were carried, all the Judges in Ireland must lose their confidence; and if they had any independence, they would all resign. What were the grounds on which the present inquiry was proposed? They were two—first, that this Judge, under a press of business, had sat up to a late hour in the night. Now, if he were asked, in the abstract, whether it was expedient that a Judge should sit over night, he should say no. The modern practice, in that respect, was much preferable to what formerly obtained, when the Judges went into Court early, and sat till
 319 320 ex uno disce omnia 321 Hon. Member: 322
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that there was no precedent for the present proceeding; but if they went on, he feared they would establish one of a most injurious tendency, as it regarded the administration of justice in Ireland. The hon. and learned Member who brought it forward ought to have given the House more specific evidence in support of his charge. Was it to be thought of for a moment, that a Judge of the land should be condemned upon the charge of an hon. Member of that House, made merely from a newspaper statement—a statement, too, which they had no evidence to show had ever received the sanction of Baron Smith. He hoped he should not be accused of special pleading in this case, but, sitting there in their judicial capacity, he asked if it was too much to require some more tangible evidence than the mere statement of the hon. and learned Member, before they entered upon an inquiry which, no matter how it terminated, would be itself a punishment. The hon. and learned member for Dublin made this charge, or rather these charges, against a Gentleman of first-rate character, and upon whom no imputation had hitherto been cast. The inquiry, he repeated, was one of a most unprecedented nature. His right hon. friend, the Secretary for Ireland, could find no precedent for it, neither could the hon. and learned member for Dublin; so that all they had to go upon was the unsupported newspaper statement produced by that hon.
 312 primâ facie 313 314 Cries of "No, no," from the Solicitor-General.
 Sir Robert Peel : The right hon. Gentleman, in the course of his statement to the House, alluded to some motives arising from community of political feeling which might possibly influence Members of the House in forming their judgment in this case. For myself, Sir, I cannot conceive the possibility of political feeling influencing any one on such an occasion. This learned Judge, Mr. Baron Smith, never was a political partisan; there never was a man freer from the charge of being swayed as a Judge by political partialities or feelings; even as a Member of Parliament, he never assumed the character of a partisan. He was the early and temperate advocate of concession to the Roman Catholics; he was a correspondent of Mr. Burke on that subject; and so highly did Mr. Burke think of Baron Smith, of his early ability and judgment, that to him he addressed two of his ablest letters on it. With that learned Judge my personal acquaintance is limited in the extreme: I fully participate with the right hon. Gentleman in the very great respect which he professed for him; and during the six years of my experience in Ireland, as Chief Secretary, in the course of which I was necessarily drawn into constant intercourse with the Judges of that country, I do not recollect any Judge who ever showed a greater desire, after his judicial duties in Court were terminated, to examine every case with scrupulous accuracy, in order that if a prisoner could urge any ground for doubt as to the propriety of his conviction, or any reason for the mitigation of the punishment awarded to him, the circumstances might be fully weighed, and every advantage, consistent with justice, accorded to him. This learned Baron is now charged with neglect of duty. But I could cite many instances in which he has sacrificed his night's repose that he might the more effectually discharge the duty of a humane and conscientious Judge, There is not an allegation of corruption against him;—I do not believe that there ever breathed a man freer from the taint of corruption, pecuniary or political. There is not an allegation of the slightest partiality,—there is not an allegation, that in the performance of his duties in the administration of the criminal law, or as the distributor of civil justice between man and man,—any corrupt motive or feeling of political partisanship ever influenced him. Let us see, then, whether there be
 304 305 primâ facie 306 307 308 309 310
 Sir Samuel Whalley  presented a Petition from the inhabitants of Marylebone, agreed to at a public meeting, over which a noble Lord presided in his capacity of Churchwarden, praying for the Repeal of the Assessed-taxes. He could not let such an important petition be thrown into the box under the Table, without saying a few words upon the subject, even though the House might be tired of hearing so much upon that subject. The injustice of the House and Window-taxes, had been already so clearly and so repeatedly shown, that he would say but little on the matter. He would only observe, that that injustice could not be more forcibly illustrated, than by the fact, that Marylebone parish paid more to these taxes in a year, than a dozen counties. But there was another view—a moral view—in which the matter might be put, which would effectually
 265 sub silentio
 Sir Samuel Whalley  presented a Petition from the electors of the parish of St. Marylebone, praying for relief from general and local taxation. The petitioners complained that they had for a long time implored the House to release them from taxation, but only had the mortification to find, that, instead of being relieved, additional burthens were thrown upon them. With respect to local taxation, they complained especially of the county rate. The House
 257 s s. s
 Lord Althorp  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had stated very truly the constitutional principle which the House was bound to observe when Judges were impeached, and that he had also stated very truly that it was upon the address of the two Houses of Parliament alone that a Judge could now be removed. The hon. and learned Gentleman, however, followed up his premises to a very odd conclusion,—namely, that because it was only by address from the two Houses of Parliament that a Judge could be removed, and because he could only be impeached for misconduct by the House of Commons, the House was precluded from inquiring, and, in point of fact, was bound not to inquire, into the alleged misconduct of any Judge. Now, would any man pretend to say, that because the House had the power of impeaching a Judge, or of addressing the Crown for his removal, it ought not as a preliminary step to inquire into his conduct at all, because it could not inquire into it under the sanction of an oath? Whenever a case arose demanding the interference of that House, the only mode to which the House could resort to satisfy itself of the justice of its interference was that of examination. It had been argued, and with as much of ingenuity as of ability, that all the charge against the learned Baron rested upon what had taken place on one occasion at Armagh. He admitted, that the charge against the learned Baron was not a charge of corruption, nor a charge that his conduct had been at all in that way disgraceful; but the charge against him was, that a Judge who came into court so late as he was alleged to have done, and who neglected his business so much as he was alleged to have neglected it, acted in a manner unbecoming a Judge. The charge was, not that he had come late into Court once at Armagh, nor that he had come into Courtlate occasionally, as was stated to have been sometimes the practice with some of the Judges in England, but that, entering the court at a late hour was his habitual practice. The hon. and learned member for Norwich had expressed his surprise that any charge should be founded on that which was admitted to be a man's habitual practice. Now, to that argument, if argument it could be called, he
 326 327 328
 Lord Sandon  said, it was most disgraceful on the part of Ministers to change their minds after coming down to the House prepared to refuse an inquiry. What new facts had they heard which could induce such a change? Was it in this way, he would ask, that a Judge was to receive notice from Ministers of their sanctioning an accusation against him, and that Judge, a man who had for thirty years filled his seat on the Bench? Was such the only notice he was to have—and that, too, in despite of promises made to that Judge's friends, that Ministers would oppose the Motion? Yet this very thing which they had made up their minds to oppose, some of them now thought afforded sufficiently good ground for an impeachment. As to the late hours, that fact was previously well known to the right hon. Secretary for Ireland, for it had been notorious for years past, and was well known to many other parties in that House. The other question was on the political charge delivered by the learned Baron; but was there a man in that House, or in the country, who could believe that Ministers were not aware of its nature prior to that Debate? Was the right hon. Secretary not acquainted with it. Had he read it? Or was his resolution changed by the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman directly pointed at in that charge? He could not conceive any species of conduct so destructive to the dignity of the Government, to the harmony of the Ministry amongst themselves, and to the dignity of that House also, as that of bringing forward such grave charges upon such slight grounds. It was strange, too, that Ministers did not agree in the reasons which induced them to support the Motion for inquiry. The right hon. Secretary for Ireland voted for inquiry expressly, because the facts, even
 338
 Mr. Feargus O' Connor  was pleased that so numerous and respectably signed a Petition, had been presented to the House on a subject of such interest to Ireland as that of the Repeal of the Union. He was glad to find that the petitioners ascribed the vices of the Irish to their proper source—namely, the misrule and mismanagement of the affairs of Ireland; justly believing that such vices were not characteristic of Irishmen. The petitioners justly set forth, that Ireland under its present misrule, was a burthen to the people of this country; and, moreover, that the expenses requisite to support this system of abuse and misrule had been ever drawn from the pockets of the English people. Notwithstanding the insolent denunciations and arrogance of his Majesty's Ministers, and their saying, they would resist it to the death, yet the question of Repeal was fast gaining ground in England as well as in Ireland; and the impression in its favour had been confirmed by the conduct of Ministers, during last Session, during the recess, and already even during this Session also. Last year was marked by an Act of the grossest injustice, and this was commenced by insolence and intolerance;
 353 354
 Colonel Williams , although he fully admitted the statements that had been made by the hon. member for Oldham, as to the deplorable state of Ireland, could by no means agree with him in thinking, that the Repeal of the Union would, produce an amended state of society in that country. Notwithstanding the great talents of that hon. Member, all his arguments in favour of a Repeal of the Union might easily be combatted and overthrown. He recollected perfectly well the period when the Union took place; he thought Mr. Pitt was pursuing the wrong course, and that instead of any Union taking place, his proper course would have been to have Reformed the Irish Parliament; but the Union having taken place, he doubted very much, whether any good could be effected by its Repeal.
 Mr. Ruthven  could not enter into the sentiment expressed by the hon. Gentleman, who pretended to deplore the waste of the time of the House in receiving Irish petitions. It would be unjust and hypocritical in Irish Members if they did not take up the time of the House on this great and important question. Many opportunities would arise, and, he trusted, would be taken advantage of, to discuss that question, for it was only by perseverance in so great an object as the repeal of the Union, that they could hope to succeed. They had great prejudices and party feelings to contend against, while the power of Ministers and men in office would be directed to oppose them. They found that even the royal name was abused, for the purpose of denouncing that object, and pointing them out as dissatisfied subjects only to be treated with "just indignation." He was glad to hear that expression, for he knew both its use and its absurdity; for, while on the one hand, it did not deter those who had begun, it
 359 ad infinitum
 Mr. O'Connell  must observe, that nothing had been done for Ireland; that, of the 1,200,000 l l 379
 The Marquess of Chandos  said, that he had expected, from the manner in which the distressed state of the agricultural interest had been alluded to in the King's Speech, that the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, would have suggested some means of relief to that body. He would not at present enter into the question, whether or not the landed interest enjoyed a monopoly, as the hon. member for Middlesex termed it, but would content himself with assuring that hon. Member, that they desired no monopoly. He did expect, however, that when the Government were giving relief to other classes of his Majesty's subjects, some boon would be extended to the agriculturists, who were at present, from a variety of causes, in a very impoverished state. Having voted last year for the repeal of the tax on houses, he could not but feel pleasure at hearing that it was no longer to be exacted; and he trusted, that the householders having obtained that advantage, would not be jealous of the farmers, who were in circumstances of great difficulty and distress. He claimed for that class of his Majesty's subjects, not a monopoly, but the means of existence; and he should feel it his duty to bring their case before the House on an early day.
 Colonel Evans  observed that the hon. Member who had just sat down, had stated that the House-tax was the same as a Property-tax. Did the hon. Member mean seriously to contend, that the House-tax, as now assessed, could, in any fair sense of the words, be called a Property-tax? Supposing it, however, to be a Property-tax, he (Colonel Evans) objected to it, because it was unequally levied. The houses of the tradesmen were taxed almost to extortion, while the mansions of the wealthy were left almost untouched. It was on
 393
 Mr. Duncombe  expressed his sincere regret that the noble Lord, in his financial statement, had not announced his intention to repeal some of those duties which more especially pressed on the commercial and agricultural interests of the country. The agriculturists were in a state of extreme destitution and distress; but the noble Lord proposed nothing by which any sort of relief could be afforded to them. The noble Lord ought, in his opinion, to have paid some degree of deference to the deliberate vote of last Session—but of which he procured the reversal—respecting the malt-tax. The noble Lord ought to have come forward and proposed to the House the repeal of that
 394
 Colonel Torrent  had been surprised to hear the hon. member for Oldham declare, and much more to hear the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) repeat, that no relief could be extended to the agricultural interest by an equitable commutation of tithes; that it would merely shift the burthen, and give no real substantial relief, unless it was procured by means of robbery and spoliation. But if an equitable commutation of tithes should be effected, as he hoped it would, a tax on production must be removed, a greater quantity of capital would be applied to the soil, which would produce a much more abundant supply than while subject to that tax, therefore, there would be more wealth to divide, and though the tithe-proprietors would not get less, the agriculturist and cultivator would get more. It had been said that the relief of taxation would not relieve the land. The noble Lord proposed to relieve the land, and the only possible means by which it could be effected, was by taking off those local burthens which were the real causes of agricultural pressure. The price of corn was now above what it was in 1790; and why was agriculture more depressed now than at that period? Because the local burthens were greater. It was now proposed to reduce those burthens, and that was the only means by which relief could be administered. It had been said by the hon. member for Oldham, and reiterated by the right hon. Baronet, the member for Tam worth, that an amendment of the poor-law would not relieve the land. He
 395
 Mr. O'Connell :—I appeal to the House, whether my hon. and learned friend, the member for Tipperary, is bound to make any such declaration as that which the noble Lord calls for. I say, that he is not. It was not from any wish to guard himself against vague accusation, but in answer to a distinct charge preferred against him by the noble Lord, that my hon. and learned friend gave to the House the solemn denial which we all heard. My hon. and learned friend gave that denial flatly and unequivocally; and the noble Lord having, when called upon to retract the accusation, repeated it, notwithstanding the cautions he received from his own friends, has now no right whatever to call upon my hon. and learned friend to confirm that which wants no confirmation—I mean his former denial. I will not presume to suggest to the noble Lord what he ought to do upon this occasion, but will leave it entirely to his own feelings.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  interrupted the right hon. Baronet, to state, that he had exonerated the hon. and learned Gentleman fully and completely.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  hoped the question was at length brought to a conclusion. In the Report which had been laid before them, and the painful discussion which had followed, he trusted a salutary lesson had been impressed upon the House to guard itself against receiving as facts worthy of attention, matter which rested upon vague and rambling reports. If the experience which they had of this affair had taught them this lesson, all they had gone through would not be thrown away. He should not have said one word if the hon. and learned Gentleman had not called upon him. That hon. and learned Gentleman appealed to him, demanding to know what must have been his (Mr. Sheil's) feelings, as an innocent man, when his warning had been addressed to him. In answer to that appeal, he would say, that such must have been his feelings as would be the feelings of any man labouring under unjust suspicions, who saw a tribunal appointed which was to make manifest his innocence. He hastened to say, that, with respect to the charges brought against the hon. and learned Gentleman at Hull, he had been, by the Report of the Committee, fully, distinctly, and honourably acquitted. He also rejoiced to have heard the positive, explicit, and frank denial of the hon. and learned Member, and, which having heard, he could entertain no doubt any longer on the subject, that upon no occasion had the hon. and learned Gentleman used language out of the House inconsistent with that which he had used in the House. The hon. and learned Gentleman would forgive him for repeating over and over again, that his noble friend had not brought a charge against any one. He knew that his noble friend would not have made the statement, had he not believed it to be true, and believed it upon the testimony of persons on whose veracity he had the fullest confidence. After the denial of the hon. and learned Gentleman, he (Mr. Secretary Stanley) had thought it the best course to appoint
 410
 Mr. O'Connell  hoped the matter would now be allowed to end. After the noble Lord's repetition of his exoneration of his hon. and learned friend, what more could be wanted? The House now had a specimen of the sort of mistakes to which the reporters of conversations were liable. Such was the mistake in this case, that the conversation was the very reverse of what had been reported. Never since the creation had any charge been so annihilated as this.
 Lord William Lennox  did not like the expression of foreign Parliament. He could assure hon. Members for Ireland that English Members sympathized with them in every thing that called for their good feeling. He was open to conviction on the topic of Repeal; he had not made up his mind on it; but even the member for Oldham, who possessed twice his (Lord Lennox's) experience, and ten times his talent, acknowledged, that till last year, he had not been satisfied of the necessity of the measure. Though, at present, he did not believe that benefit would result from the carrying of such a measure, yet his mind might attain that conviction.
 Colonel Leith Hay  could not allow this discussion to close without stating what he felt now, and what he had felt all along, respecting this transaction. What he had stated on a former evening, when this question was under discussion, was not stated with any intention of injuring
 405
 Colonel Leith Hay  begged to state that he had said no such thing. His information had applied only to the hon. and learned member for Tipperary, and so he had stated it.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  said, if the noble Lord had expressed himself unequivocally upon the Report which had just been read, he would have done that which was his duty. In drawing the attention of the House to this subject, he was anxious to disconnect himself from his hon. and learned friend, the member for Tipperary. His hon. and learned friend was now fully and honourably acquitted of the charge which had been preferred against him; but as it appeared to him, the country at large, that is, the country to which he had the honour to belong, was still implicated in it. He could not refrain from expressing his surprise, that the declaration of Ministers was not, on this occasion, more explicit and more exculpatory. The charge, as it was originally brought forward, was designed to prostrate, not merely his hon. and learned friend, the member for Tipperary, but also every Member of the party with which he was connected.—The hon. Member was interrupted by
 Mr. O'Dwyer  felt it to be his duty to yield upon that occasion, as he would upon all others, to the intimation of the Speaker, which had been given to him in a manner which imparted information without inflicting offence. He should abstain from entering further into the topics to which he had just been alluding: but this he must say, that during the last two or three days, the hon. and learned member for Tipperary had been pursued with the most unrelenting rigour; that I he had been attacked by parties, and assailed from quarters which were supposed to be under certain influence; but that, in spite of all the malignity which had combined to crush him, his character, and with his character, the character of his party, had been fully vindicated. He availed himself of this opportunity to say, that the hon. and learned member for Hull had done himself great honour by the manner in which he had conducted this case before the Committee, and that he had extorted from the Committee the most flattering testimony to the sincerity with which he had acted throughout. The hon. Member concluded by passing a warm eulogium upon a right hon. Baronet, who, on the first evening that this transaction was discussed, had risen superior to the prejudices of party, and had gallantly come forward to do justice to an injured man.
 Mr. Harvey  observed, that the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had shown, in his financial exposition, more of the dexterity of a politician than the firmness of a statesman. He ought to have stated at once what the plans of Government were, but, instead of that, the noble Lord had left the matter to be settled by the conflict of two rival parties, the representatives in that House of the agricultural and manufacturing districts. The noble Lord had given notice that he intended to establish the Westminster races, and that there was 1,200,000 l l
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor , as he had misunderstood the hon. and gallant Member, was quite satisfied, and would sit down.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  said, he did not rise for the purpose of continuing this debate with reference to the case of the hon. and learned member for Tipperary; nor did he now rise from any captious motive or feeling of false honour. The House must have observed, that he was most anxious to accede to the proposition so feelingly, so eloquently, and so prudently recommended by the Speaker—of terminating this unpleasant debate. The hon. and learned member for Dublin also begged that it might now cease. With what had fallen from the noble Lord he was heartily satisfied, so, he was sure, was every honourable man. With the noble Lord, then, he had nothing more to do, but his business was with the hon. and gallant Colonel who sat behind the noble Lord. The House did not, perhaps, hear what he had heard that gallant Gentleman say at the conclusion of his speech. That part of the charge in which the gallant Colonel backed the noble Lord, went to state his confidence in that authority, which impeached several Irish Members; but the gallant Colonel, after stating his belief of the report, and repeating what he had before said, and after apologising, as he thought, concluded his observations by saying, "and I do not retract one word of what I have said." Now he (Mr. O'Connor) asked the gallant Colonel, did he or did he not—
 Mr. Grote  appeared at the Bar of the House with the Report of the Committee of Privileges. As soon as the Clerk had received it, a number of voices called "Read, read." The Clerk then read it as follows:—
 The Committee of Privileges, to whom the matter of complaint was referred, arising out of a paragraph in  The Examiner The paragraph in question, purporting to form part of the report of a speech publicly delivered by Matthew Davenport Hill, Esq., Member of Parliament for the borough of Hull, is as follows:— "It is impossible for those not actually in the House to know all the secret machinery by which votes are obtained. I happen to know this: (and I could appeal, if necessary, to a person well known and much respected by yourselves), that an Irish Member who spoke with great violence against every part of that Bill, and voted against every clause of it, went to Ministers, and said, 'Don't bate a single atom of that Bill, or it will be impossible for any man to live in Ireland.' 'What, (said they) this from you, who speak, and vote against the Bill?' Yes (he replied), that is necessary, because, if I don't come into Parliament for Ireland, I must be out altogether, and that I don't choose.' [ Cries of Name and No No' Yes Your Committee, in entering on the delicate and embarrassing duty imposed upon them, ascertained from Mr. Hill, that though he could not admit the entire accuracy of the above paragraph, as a report of what he had publicly spoken at Hull, he nevertheless recollected to have publicly charged an Irish Member of Parliament with conduct similar in substance to that which the paragraph describes. The Irish Member so alluded to, was Richard Lalor Sheil, Esq., Member of Parliament for the county of Tipperary; and Mr. Hill states the charge, to the best of his belief, to have been substantially as follows:— "That Mr. Sheil made communications respecting the Irish Coercion Bill to persons connected with the Government and others,
 398 Such was the substance of the allegation into which your Committee proceeded to inquire. Two witnesses were called before them at the suggestion of Mr. Hill, and others were about to be examined, when Mr. Hill himself, finding the testimony already heard, very different from what he had expected, freely and spontaneously, made the following communication to the Committee:— "That he had come to the conviction, that his charge against Mr. Shiel, of having directly, or indirectly communicated, or intended to communicate to the Government any private opinions in opposition to those which he expressed in the House of Commons, had no foundation in fact; that such charge was not merely incapable of formal proof, but was, in his present sincere belief, totally and absolutely unfounded; that he had originally been induced to make mention of it in a hasty and unpremeditated speech, under a firm persuasion, that he had received it on undeniable evidence; but that being now satisfied of the mistake into which he had fallen, and convinced that the charge was wholly untrue, he came forward to express his deep and unfeigned sorrow for having ever contributed to give it circulation. Mr. Hill added, that if there were any way consistent with honour, by which he could make reparation to Mr. Sheil, he should deem no sacrifice too great to heal the wound which his erroneous statement had inflicted." It is with the highest gratification, that your Committee find themselves enabled thus to exonerate an accused Member of Parliament from imputations alike painful and undeserved. The voluntary avowal of an erroneous statement on the part of Mr. Hill, now puts it in their power to pronounce a decided opinion, and to close the present inquiry. Neither of the witnesses who appeared before the Committee, deposed to any facts calculated to bear out the allegation against Mr. Sheil; nor did their testimony go to impeach his character, and honour, in any way, or as to any matter whatever. The Committee have no hesitation in declaring their deliberate conviction, that the innocence of Mr. Sheil, in respect of the whole matter of complaint referred to their investigation, is entire and unquestionable. Your Committee feel bound, at the same time, to express their full confidence in Mr. Hill's declaration, that the statement impeaching Mr. Shed's character, was made by him. at Hull, under a sincere, though mistaken, persuasion of its accuracy. They derive this confidence as well from the tone of generous regret which characterized his communication at the close of their proceeding, as from the candid admissions, and the evident anxiety to avoid all exaggeration and mis-statement,
 399
 Mr. Robinson  said, that on the whole the statement of the noble Lord was extremely satisfactory, in as far as it indicated the condition of the resources of the country, although he was free to confess, that there were some parts of the noble Lord's speech, from which he differed. The first thing he must remark was, that experience ought to have long since convinced our financial Ministers, that the more the resources of the country were relieved from taxation, the more prosperous became the revenue of the country. It had once been supposed that the revenue was reduced to the amount that taxation was reduced, but that was now so well known not to be the fact, that he was surprised the noble Lord had not carried his reductions further. He asked the noble Lord why he could not apply the whole of the surplus revenue to reduction of taxation? The noble Lord, however, proposed to leave an untouched surplus of 600,000 l 369 l l 370
 Sir Henry Hardinge  reminded the right hon. Secretary, that he had expressly declared that the noble Lord's informant believed in the truth of the charges, and that the noble Lord himself believed in the veracity of his informant. Now, the Gentleman who had given evidence before the Committee, and who was the informant of the noble Lord, had declared, very frankly and honourably, that when he mentioned the matter to the noble Lord, he attached no importance whatever to it—and further, that the conversation he had held with Mr. Sheil was held at dinner at the Athenaeum Club House, and that Mr. Sheil then expressed to him the strongest disapprobation of the Coercion Bill. He had asked the witness whether he had ever stated the particulars of the conversation to any other person, and his answer was, that he had not—not having thought it of any importance. The witness had said also, that he did not mention the matter to the noble Lord till December, which was after the statement made by the hon. and learned Member for Hull. Under these circumstances, he must contend that the exoneration of the hon. member for Tipperary, rested, not upon his statement, but, exclusively and comprehensively, upon the Report of the Committee of Inquiry. He did not mean to cast blame upon the right hon. Secretary; but he thought the hon. and learned member for Tipperary entitled to be relieved from the distinction which the right hon. Secretary appeared disposed to draw.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  wished, as all persons in the House did, he believed, that this discussion had ended long since. He could not, however, after the speech of the right hon. Secretary, refrain from saying a word or two. The right hon. Secretary appeared to him to have assumed most unjustly, that the vindication of the hon. and learned Gentleman rested in part upon his own denial. The Report acquitted the hon. and learned Gentleman, not only from the charge brought against him at Hull, but also from every other charge whatever connected with the subject. The Report distinctly declared, that neither of the witnesses had deposed to any points implicating the hon. and learned Gentleman in the charge, nor did their testimony implicate him in any matter whatever. The right hon. Secretary put the matter as though the accused was exonerated as to the Hull charge, upon the Report of the Committee; and, upon the other charges, upon his own denial. This, he said, was not the fair way of placing the result of these painful inquiries.
 Mr. Abercromby  would merely trespass on the House to state the particulars of the conversation which had passed between himself and the hon. and learned Member. A few days ago the hon. and learned Gentleman had reminded him of a conversation they had held upon the state of Ireland, during the debates on the Coercion Bill. He had told the hon. and learned Gentleman, that he recollected having held such a conversation, but could not call to mind the particulars of it. He now repeated that statement to the House. He had found it impossible to recall the particulars; but although he could not recollect what the details of that
 409
 Mr. Benett  deprecated the attacks which had been made upon the agricultural portion of the community by several hon. Members who had taken part in the Debate. Had they known the character of the British farmers as well as he did, they would not have brought such charges against them. They had been charged with combining, and urging on their labourers to excess; but what was the fact? They had never, at any time, combined even for their own protection or mutual advantage, much less for the purpose of evading the law, or to urge others on to the commission of crime, while they had always been most diffident, and had shown
 392 l
 Mr. Fielden  presented a Petition from Ashton-under-Line, in favour of the Repeal of the Legislative Union between England and Ireland, signed by more than 4,000 persons.
 Mr. Hardy  said, he did not mean to put a stop to the present discussion: but the time of this House ought not to be spent on by-battles upon a question which must come in a more solemn shape before the House, and receive that consideration which its great importance demanded. He was sorry that such lengthened discussions should take place upon the mere presentation of a petition. He could get up hundreds of such petitions in different parts of England. In the county of Lancaster thousands upon thousands of signatures could be attached to such petitions, and in all the large towns of the north of England. It was supposed, that such a measure as the present would relieve them from the great influx of Irish labourers, and not because it would effect a dissolution of the Union between this country and Ireland. What many of the persons who signed petitions like the present were told, and believed, was, that if they could only obtain a repeal of the Legislative Union, it would send back all the competitors in the field of labour, who had already so much reduced the wages of the manufacturing and agricultural population. This was the argument which had been held forth to the deluded people. In the town of Leeds there were not less than 8,000 resident Irish; in Lancaster there were more; in Barnsley there were many thousands; and when this impression had been made upon that class, which were now fashionably called "the operatives,"—when they were told, that such a measure as that contemplated by the present petition would prevent the influx of Irish labourers, by which their wages had been considerably lowered, it would not be very difficult to procure thousands of signatures to such petitions, though those who signed them knew nothing of the consequences of
 358
 Mr. Hume  said, that if the right hon. Baronet had not made a most extraordinary speech, he should perhaps not have said anything. He had listened to the statement of the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and that statement was certainly plain and explicit. There could be no doubt of what the noble Lord's intentions were; but, however the righ hon. Baronet might believe the statement to be satisfactory, he did not think that it would be considered so by the country at large. The House seemed to cheer the proposed reduction in the estimates of 500,000 l l l l 380 l l l l l l l l l 381 382 l l s l 383 d d 384 ad valorem s s l s l s 385
 Mr. Hume : The hon. and learned Gentleman does not understand me.
 Mr. Hume  begged to explain. He was always ready to answer for what he said; but he challenged the hon. and learned Member to produce a single speech of his, by which it could be shown that he had been guilty of the double dealing charged upon him with respect to the Corn-laws. He had always said, that the price of corn would fall by the repeal of those laws; and, if he could have uttered such a sentiment as that imputed to him by the hon. and learned Member, he should have been fit for Bedlam.
 Mr. Potter  thought, the vote of last
 357
 Mr. Sheil  rose, amidst loud cries of "hear" from all parts of the House, which were succeeded by profound silence. After a short pause, he said: I stood, a few nights ago, before this House, with no other sustainment than the consciousness of my innocence; I now stand before it, with that innocence announced, in the clearest and most unequivocal language, by a Committee, composed of men themselves above all suspicion to the world. I do feel my heart swell within me at this instant, and almost impede my utterance. Justice has been done me. It has been done, not only by my judges, but by my accuser. He preferred his charges in the House, he reiterated them before the Committee; and, having gone into his evidence, and probed his case, he then offered me the only reparation in his power, and, with a frankness of contrition which mitigates the wrong he did me, he came forward and announced that, not only could he not prove his charge, but believed it to be utterly destitute of foundation. That Gentleman, having made this acknowledgment, then turned to me, and, addressing himself to me in the tone and with the aspect of deep emotion, asked me to forgive him. I had, I own, much to forgive. He had wounded me
 406 407 408
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  had heard, not with surprise, but with pleasure, the total acquittal which the Committee of Privileges had given to his hon. and learned friend, the member for Tipperary. He was sure, that the whole House participated in the pleasure which he felt upon hearing, that one of its Members had been acquitted of so grievous an accusation as that which had been brought against his hon. and learned friend. There was one fact connected with this discussion, to which he could speak from his own personal knowledge: during the Debates on the Irish Coercion Bill, he had given his assistance, such as it was, to those Irish Members who opposed it. He had, in consequence, had several conversations with Irish Members who were averse from that measure. During the conversations which he held with them, he had never discovered anything which could induce him to suppose, that their opposition was not founded on justice, and conducted with sincerity. He had never discovered any thing which could lead him to believe that they were guilty of the misconduct which had been recently imputed to them. The Report which had just been read, would, when it was dispersed through Ireland, do honour and justice at once to the character of his hon. and learned friend, the member for Tipperary. It would likewise acquit the House of certain imputations cast upon its fairness and impartiality, which ought not to have come from the quarter in which they originated. He must express his entire conviction, that any impression which had been made by the recent charges, to the disadvantage of his hon. and learned friend, the member for Tipperary, would be more than removed by the publication of this Report.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson : "I do understand the hon. Member better than he understands himself; and, whenever he brings the question of the Corn-laws before the House, I hope he will be prepared to rest his attack against them on some fixed principle." He was prepared to meet the hon. Member on his own ground, and to prove, that the Corn-laws created no monopoly in favour of the agriculturists; but he would not then enter into the argument. He would only observe, that the existing system was more favourable to the people than that which the hon. member for Middlesex desired to be introduced; for, while the hon. Member proposed to have a permanent duty of 10 s s
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  did not mean to offer any opposition to the proposed reduction of the House-tax; but he must observe that, in his opinion, the question respecting that tax had never been properly understood. He did not look upon the House-tax as an improper mode of raising revenue, and he saw no reason why, if fairly regulated, it should not be more productive than it had been. Nor could he understand why the mansions of noblemen and gentry in the country-should not be assessed to the full amount of their value; and the true criterion of that value was, not the rent which such houses would bring, but the convenience which they afforded the owners for a display of taste and magnificence. In addition to this, the House-tax did not affect a single person who might be said to be in a state of want, or even to belong to the humbler classes. All houses under the value of 10 l 386 l 387 Edinburgh Review 388
 Mr. Macleod  rose, to enter his protest against the Repeal of the Union being considered solely an Irish question. It was a great Imperial question. He deprecated the hard language which had been used against his Majesty's Ministers, who were not present to defend themselves. For himself, he could not perceive that the Repeal of the Union would produce all those beneficial results which were anticipated by the petitioners. The hon. Member who presented the petition had himself said, he could not tell whether the Repeal would be right or wrong to concede, and therefore it did not appear that it was making any very great progress. He begged pardon for troubling the House, having merely risen to protest against the question being considered only an Irish one.
 Mr. Cobbett , like his hon. colleague, last Session, did not know whether the Repeal of the Union would be productive of good or evil; but, since then, he had seen the question so much agitated, and he had seen his Majesty's Ministers so angry upon the subject, that he began to suspect the Repeal would be a good thing. He had attended with the greatest care and attention to all the arguments both for and against the question; and he was now of opinion, that a Repeal of the Legislative Union would be a good thing for England and Ireland. A sort of reproach seemed to be heaped on those who
 355 instanter 356
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that after the statement he had heard from the noble Lord, he rather wondered that the noble Lord should have made any statement at all; and, to him, it did not appear that there was any good reason why the noble Lord should have made one now, excepting it were to stop them from asking for the repeal of taxation. The noble Lord had spoken to see how many would cheer his statement. He spoke to sound them—to see if they would continue to bear their present burthens; for, indeed, the noble Lord was taking nothing from those burthens by reducing the House-tax, and to ascertain with what feelings they would continue to bear them for the future. The noble Lord had admitted, that the House-tax was unobjectionable in itself, and even just in principle. He agreed with the noble Lord that it was unobjectionable, and that it was a fair and proper tax; he agreed with him too in saying, that there were other taxes which were preferable to be taken off; but although he was a popularity hunter, as he had once been called by the hon. member for Hull, he would not have taken the House-tax off, if he had been in the noble Lord's situation. If he were convinced that the tax was a bad one, he would, perhaps, have taken it off at once, but he would not otherwise have taken it off after what had taken place. It was an encouragement to the people to demand the repeal of taxation; and the noble Lord might have remarked that he (Mr. Cobbett) never recommended the non-payment of taxes, either in speaking or writing. The noble Lord certainly encouraged the people, though he did not exactly recommend them, to demand the repeal of taxes. Now, they wanted the repeal of the Malt-tax and Hop-duties. He had at this moment some young hop-cuttings quite ready; and this he would say, that no excisemen
 371 372
 Mr. Cobbett  could not help remarking, that the statement made by the noble Lord opposite, appeared to him to apply to the whole body of Irish Members who opposed the Coercion Bill. Now, the aspersion which that statement cast upon them, had been completely wiped away by the Report of the Committee. Of the conduct of the noble Lord on this occasion he did not pretend to decide, but as far as he was a judge, he would say, that it was just the conduct which the House expected from his Lordship.
 Mr. Finn  expressed exultation in the triumphant result of this inquiry, not only to his hon. and learned friend, the member for Tipperary, but also to the entire body of Irish Members. He must complain of the unwillingness with which the House
 404
 Mr. Finn  congratulated the Repealers, and the people of Ireland at large, on the speech of the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Macleod), which had called forth one from the hon. member for Oldham, for which the people of Ireland were greatly indebted. What he had stated with respect to the people of Ireland was perfectly true. The statement, that the Reformers had been denounced by the Whigs, was equally so; for Mr. Canning himself had called them, a low, and degraded crew. He was convinced that the Repeal of the Union was a measure founded in justice, would be advantageous to both this country and Ireland, and was the only means of producing contentment, peace, and order, in Ireland, and giving security to this country.
 The Speaker , who reminded him, that the case now before the House, had been entertained by the House as a question of privilege. Indeed, when once noticed, it could not be otherwise dealt with. It was then left in the judgment of the House, how it would proceed with such a case. The House decided, that it should be investigated in a Committee of Privileges, and, in consequence, delivered over the matter to that Committee; the Committee had decided upon it, and their
 403
 Sir John Tyrell  said, that, as an agricultural Member, he could not allow the observations of the hon. member for Marylebone to pass without comment. He thought it very unfair for that hon. Member to state, that the English farmers urged on the peasantry to incendiarism. If such
 391
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that as the noble Lord had not gone into any details as to the state of our finances, it was not his intention to touch on any of them. He would, therefore, only refer to the prominent topics of the noble Lord's statement. The first point on which he felt bound to say a few words, was the great reduction of the expenditure of the country, or, more properly speaking, to that portion of it which admitted of reduction; for the great mass of the expenditure did not admit of reduction, consistently with the observance of national faith; and he must assert, looking to what had been already done, that the reduction in the estimates this year of half a million below those of the last, was as much as could be expected, and did credit to the Government. The noble Lord assumed, that he would have a sum of 2,600,000 l l l l 374 l l l l l l 375 l l l 376 Hear, hear 377
 Sir Samuel Whalley  differed with the hon. Member who spoke last in opinion, on the burthens of the landed interest; for he was persuaded that the landed interest were troubled with no peculiar burthens, except, perhaps, the Malt-tax; though a great share of that infliction fell on the commercial and trading interest. Nor was it alone the agricultural interest which suffered by the Corn-laws; for it was owing to this burthen that a large proportion of persons were thrown on the poor-rates in towns and cities. As to the operation of the Poor-laws which had been mentioned, he,—speaking in behalf of the largest metropolitan parish,—could say, that he believed the main improvement which could be made on this point would be, to relieve the parishes from Magisterial
 389 No, no 390
 Lord Althorp  spoke to the following effect:—I know not why I should be called upon to rise in my place, after the Report which has just been read to the House. Rising, however, as I now do, after it has been read, I feel bound to say, that no man present rejoices more at its contents than I do. The charge, as stated in the paper, which was referred to the consideration of the Select Committee, was, that the hon. and learned member for Tipperary had made a communication to the members of his Majesty's Government, and also to other persons, with a view which was specifically mentioned in the Report. The answer which I first gave to the question put to me by the hon. and learned member for Dublin, was, as the House will recollect, that there was no foundation for any such charge. I then stated, upon the authority of a person on whose veracity I placed entire reliance, that, though such a charge had no foundation in fact, I had reason to believe, and I did believe, that the hon. and learned Gentleman, whom I afterwards named, had expressed in private, respecting the Coercion Bill, sentiments very different from those which he professed in public. I feel that, after what has taken place in the Committee, it is due from me to the House, and I may also add, to myself, to state frankly the reasons why I added the latter observation. I had seen in the public papers very strong attacks made upon my hon. and learned friend, the member for Hull, for the speech which he had addressed to his constituents. I was quite sure, that the questions put to me by the hon. and learned member for Dublin, were put to me with a view of following up in this House, the attacks which had been made elsewhere upon my hon. and learned friend, and I felt, that if I had stopped short, and had answered the question simply, I should have made a statement which would have been contrary to what I had reason to believe, and which would have supported and encouraged the attacks on my hon. and learned friend, which we all knew were in contemplation. I believe, that, at the time, it was thought, that in acting as I did, I acted rightly; but I am now inclined to admit, upon
 400 401
 Lord Althorp :—If I am to understand, that the solemn denial which the hon. and
 402
 Lord Althorp  said that, after the speech of the right hon. Baronet, it became necessary that he should address a few words to the House. The gentleman (Mr. John Wood) who had appeared before the Committee, had certainly given him (Lord Althorp) such information as had just been stated to the House. But he was not the only person who had given him that information. He did not mean to retract what he had said. He had the greatest reliance on the veracity of his informant, but he did not wish to go into that question. He was then only defending himself from the charge of having made a statement of a conversation different from that which he had heard. Mr. John Wood was, undoubtedly, one of his informants, but there was another, whom he did not intend to name. He thought the hon. and learned Gentleman stood perfectly clear from imputation.
 Lord Althorp , in explanation, reminded the House, that he last Session expressed his anticipation that, in the present year, the Revenue would admit of the repeal of the House-tax, and now he was happy to say, that that anticipation had been realized. As to what the right hon. Baronet had said, with respect to the commutation of tithes, he was sure that every man accustomed to agriculture would agree with him, that nothing could be more vexatious than the way in which
 378
 Lord Althorp  moved that the House resolve itself into a Committee of Ways and Means.
 Lord Althorp  proceeded to address the Committee, as follows;—In pursuance of the notice I gave on a former evening, it is now my duty to call the attention of the House to my view of the present state of the finances of the country. I hope that hon. Members will reflect upon the period of the year at which I am now speaking—that I am about to advert to the prospects of the financial year, which will not in fact commence until two months after this period. Therefore, though I thus early invite the attention of the House and of the country to the subject, it is impossible to do it in any but a general manner; and it will be quite in vain for me to attempt anything like accuracy as to the amount of expenditure in the ensuing year. It may be asked why I have taken a different course this year to that which I adopted last year; and I will fairly answer, that last year there were various reasons which induced me to think it would be better not to introduce the subject to Parliament until after the commencement of the financial year. Among other reasons, one that mainly influenced me was, that if I had made my statement last year at the period I have now chosen, I should have had to state to the House that the surplus of the Revenue amounted to less than 700,000 l 361 l l l l l l l l l 362 l l l ad valorem ad valorem ad valorem ad valorem 363 l ad valorem l l l l 364 l l l l l l l l 365 l l 366 l l l l 367 368 l
 Lord Morpeth  did not seriously repine at the peculiar selection for relief which the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had chosen to take on the present occasion; there were circumstances of policy, as well as financial considerations, which had justified his noble friend
 396
 Mr. O'Connell  presented Petitions from Clondalkin, in the county of Dublin; from Cruisetown, county of Meath; from Lady Island, Gorey, Templetown, county of Wexford; St. James's, Kilmartin, and from Carnew, and the men of Shillelagh, and several other places in Ireland, for the abolition of the Tithe-system, and for the Repeal of the Union.
 Mr. Ruthven  said, he would not only deny that the Repeal of the Union would place the Protestants in the hands of the
 414
 Mr. John Maxwell  hoped, that the hon. member for Dublin would forgive him for stating that it would be more desirable, and in his opinion it would be attended with success, if the hon. Member would bring forward measures for the relief of Ireland, and try whether the Imperial Parliament would afford redress, before it sought for a Repeal of the Union. He viewed that measure with fear and apprehension. A particular evil to which the hon. Member had referred was absenteeism, in the condemnation of which he concurred most sincerely. This had, more than any religious differences, caused distress and destruction in Ireland. He should be happy to find the great talent and intimate knowledge and devotion to his country, of the hon. member for Dublin engaged in bringing forward this question. He might expect to be resisted by a powerful body, but he should give the Reformed Parliament an opportunity to consider the
 424
 Mr. O'Connell  could not help remarking, that if Rome was once saved by geese, he feared Ireland would not be. He confessed that his countrymen were troubled with a fogginess of intellect, which made them unable to see their own interests, without the use of British spectacles; but, though they were so stupid a race, Catholics as well as Protestants were united in praying for relief from the tithes. They did not pray that one-third should be paid by the landlord, but that two-thirds of the whole should be free
 418 419 420 de facto de jure pons asinorum 421 422 Finch 423
 Mr. Lloyd  said, that though he was anxious to enforce economy in every branch of our expenditure, yet he thought this was not a time when they ought to lessen their naval power. The hon. member for Middlesex had told them, that they were called upon to place a blind confidence in Ministers, but, with respect to the navy, they were called upon to place only a reasonable confidence in them. Every man who did not wilfully shut his eyes, must see the necessity which existed of keeping up our naval force at a period like the present, when the cause of constitutional freedom was threatened in various parts of the world. If the hon.
 439
 Mr. Ruthven  moved, as an Amendment, that the sum should be reduced to 102,051 l 446 l l l
 Mr. Halcombe  adverted to the retirement of four clerks, on large allowances, which had taken place some time ago in the Navy Pay Office. Their places had been supplied by four young men, at the usual salary, so that a considerable additional expense had been incurred. It was a remarkable circumstance, that, at the election for Dover, and which occurred soon after, the sons of the gentlemen who had so retired were found among the most active partizans of the right hon. Gentleman opposite.
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  thought it strange, that new clerks should be introduced at a time when a consolidation of offices was the professed object of Government for the purposes of economy. He believed the retirement of the clerks in the right hon. Gentleman's office was by no means voluntary, although he believed the right hon. Gentleman was imposed upon by some one in his office.
 Captain Yorke  would be most happy to second the Motion just announced, as he quite agreed that the important services rendered by Captain Ross entitled him to some mark of public approbation. It was his pleasant duty, on the present occasion, to compliment the right hon. Baronet upon the Estimate he had brought forward. It was one of the very best statements which had appeared for a considerable length of time, and he had no hesitation in according it his entire support. The right hon. Baronet seemed anxious to keep up the efficiency of the navy to the best of his ability, and at the same time to save, or rather to shave—wherever he could, and he certainly had succeeded in accomplishing both objects. It appeared the expenditure was to be diminished by a sum of 180,000 l l 438
 Colonel Davies  said, that the construction of the Act for many years past had been, that, after a certain length of service, a clerk was entitled to demand his super-annuation. The proper construction of the Act might be as stated by the right hon. Baronet.
 Major Beauclerk  should not oppose the
 451
 Mr. Aaron Chapman  said, it was much to the credit of his Majesty's Ministers that they kept up, in an efficient manner, that strong arm of power, by which this country had been so long protected. For this they deserved the country's thanks, and he would willingly support the Motion.
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  hoped there were not many intelligent persons who would continue much longer under the delusion, that the payment of tithes was a personal tax, whereby an individual of one persuasion was compelled to support a minister of another. If the petitioners could make out such a case, he would admit they deserved the interference of the Legislature. The petitions would certainly receive from the House all the attention they merited; but he would take upon himself to say, that the Imperial Parliament would never accede to the prayers of either class.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  denied that there was anything irregular in the circumstance alluded to. The clerks in question had retired, as they were entitled to do, after a long service. By the arrangements for the consolidation of offices, which had been made last year, an immediate saving had been effected for the public of 1,400 l l
 Mr. Sanford  gave the greatest possible credit to the First Lord of the Admiralty for the judicious reductions which he had effected in the department of which he was the head; and, so far from thinking his salary ought to be reduced, he thought, if anything, it should be increased. The salary of the First Lord of the Admiralty was less by 500 l
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  said, he knew that many of the resolutions in favour of the Repeal of the Union were proposed and seconded by Protestants. Every exertion had been used to prevent the discussion of that important question. A meeting upon the subject had been advertised to take place at the Crown and Anchor Tavern, but since the paragraph in the King's Speech, in which persons who advocated it had been charged almost with direct treason, the proprietor of that tavern had refused to allow the parties to have the room. An application had subsequently been made to the proprietor of the London-tavern, who, indeed, had not refused a room, but had prevented the meeting in another way, by asking six times the usual sum for the use of the room. If it was supposed, that Repeal could be prevented by adopting such expedients, they were deceived, as no power on earth could prevent the question from being agitated.
 Mr. Finch  admitted, that the merits of the question should be fully and fairly discussed; but he must vindicate the opinion expressed by his hon. friend, the member for Kent (Mr. Plumptre), that the Irish Protestants who affixed their names to petitions of this kind laboured under a great mistake—he would not say delusion,
 415 416 417
 Mr. Sinclair  was glad to find, that his hon. friend, the member for Middlesex, did not consider acquiescence in all his opinions to be an essential ingredient in parliamentary independence, and did not wish to act towards Members the Jack Cade part of being viceroy over their votes. He (Mr. S.) had never courted Ministerial favour by supporting Government when he thought them wrong; nor would he earn a spurious popularity by opposing them when he deemed them in the right. He should cordially support the original proposition. The present, as had been justly observed, was a question not of servile, but of reasonable confidence. It could not be expected, that every individual Member could be prepared, of his own knowledge, to determine what was the proper number of sailors or marines which the public exigencies required; but he was disposed, on this subject, to attach more weight to the sentiments of his right hon. friend, who had access to every source of information, than to the suggestions of his hon. friend behind him. He was happy to vote for keeping both these valuable corps in their actual state of efficiency.
 445
 Mr. George F. Young  regretted, that the hon. member for Middlesex had thought it necessary to raise his voice in opposition to the vote under consideration, especially after the very justifiable appeal made by the hon. Baronet in its favour. The hon. Gentleman, however, had altogether failed in offering any good reason why the vote should be refused; and he, although at all times anxious to effect just and proper reductions in the public expenditure, was determined not to treat great political questions, involving the honour and independence of Great Britain, in a spirit of misplaced niggardly economy. It was his intention, to give his vote to the Motion of the right hon. Baronet.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, he was friendly to all judicious economy; but, under the name of economy, many fallacies could be detected. The number of marines now called for, was necessary for the public service, inasmuch as they formed a nucleus round which (if the necessity pressed) we could easily augment our navy. Marines were not to be made or had in a day, as sailors were, in a period of necessity; and he hoped the House would not consent to the amendment of the hon. member for Middlesex.
 Mr. Plumptre  said, he was sorry to see so many men labour under delusions respecting the abolition of tithes, and the Repeal of the Union. He would add, that it was a grievous delusion if they were serious in their prayer upon these two points; and he could hardly think that they could entertain one solid hope that either the one or the other would be granted. He could never suppose that a British House of Parliament would consent to a measure which would give up the whole Protestant population into the hands of the Catholics; for such would be the consequence of the repeal. Nor, on the other hand, could he think that a British House of Commons would ever consent to abolish tithes.
 Mr. Hume  said, he never would refuse a proper reward to a worthy man; and, in saying this, he was quite surprised that such a man as Captain Ross had not as yet received any remuneration for his arduous
 443 444
 Mr. Hume : It was curious, certainly, if not only he (Mr. Hume), but all the country, were mistaken in supposing that the noble Lord had made such a declaration. * * 434
 Mr. Hume  said, that, with respect to the appeal which had been made by the right hon. Baronet, if he would look back, he would find that no Minister ever asked for a vote of money, that he did not make the same sort of appeal. He, however, would ask whether such an appeal could be valid, when it was insinuated, that the Minister proposing an estimate was not to be called upon for his reasons in detail? Why was not this necessary to be done? If the matter were to be decided by the Committee of the whole House, were no reasons to be given by the right hon. Baronet for the manner in which he had framed his estimates? Just because the right hon. Baronet said, he thought it right, or that he and his colleagues thought it right, was the House to have no reasons given for the course which had been taken? If so, where was the use of the deliberative assembly of which the right hon. Baronet had spoken? He was not
 430 431 432 433
 Mr. Hume  could not support the proposition of the hon. member for Oldham, at the same time, he agreed with him, that the charge for the half-pay was most extravagant. It appeared to him to be perfectly monstrous that the charge for half-pay, should, at the present moment, be nearly as much as it was in 1817. He believed that the number of captains on the half-pay list was 850, and of lieutenants about 3,000, which was nearly the number in the half-pay list in 1817. He had no wish to deprive any officers of their half-pay, but he complained that so many promotions should take place in the present situation of the country. The Government pledged themselves to bring forward some measure relative to superannuation allowances which would ultimately lead to considerable reduction; and he complained, that, although this promise was made three years ago, nothing had hitherto been done.
 Mr. Hume  said, that he wished to ask the noble Lord opposite a question with reference to the financial statement which the noble Lord made a few nights ago. The noble Lord, on that occasion, stated, that the amount of the House-tax was 1,100,000 l l
 Mr. Hume  understood last year, that expectations were held out to the country, that the House-tax would be reduced 470,000 l l
 Mr. Hume  observed, that the noble Lord, in his statement on Friday, took into calculation 800,000 l l
 Mr. Sheil  could not help expressing his surprise that when petitions were to be presented, from which there might be anticipated discussions of great importance, not a single member of the Government, or any individual connected with the Government, should have thought it incumbent upon him to attend. It was originally understood that some member of the Government should be present at the early sittings of the House. Why, then, was not the Secretary for Ireland present? Or, if he could not attend, why did he not apply to the hon. member for the University of Dublin, to answer the speech of the hon. member for Dublin? But there was neither a member of the Government, nor any one that sympathized with them, or with the high Church party, in attendance to answer his hon. and learned friend's arguments. With regard to the King's Speech, which had been alluded to, he admitted that it was couched in very strong terms—in terms almost as strong as those employed by Lord Grey, then Mr. Charles Grey, in speaking of the Legislative Union with Ireland. Mr. Grey described that as a bad measure, purchased by gold, and wrung from the fears of the Irish people by treachery, and said, that the time would come when Ire-land would demand its repeal and would obtain it.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  thought the hon. member for Middlesex, when he proposed a decrease in the naval force of Great Britain, ought to feel quite confident, that the political state of Europe was so permanently settled that there was no reason to apprehend any occasion on which that force might be called into requisition. If such was the opinion of the hon. Member, he (Mr. Cutlar Fergusson) altogether differed from him. If ever there was a time when the navy of the country ought to be kept in an effective condition, that time, in his opinion, was the present. He would readily give his support to the vote then called for; and he would have been ready to vote for a larger force, but for an assurance given by Ministers, that whenever it might be necessary—and it might be so soon—to support the honour and character of the country, as well as the independence of Europe, even by an appeal to its naval force, that they would be ready to send it forth in all its might. When that time came, his concurrence to such a measure should not be wanting. So far from thinking the force of the navy ought just then to be diminished, he saw fair grounds for increasing it; though he would not name the quarter where a large increase of our ships might be necessary to maintain the national honour. On the Army Estimates, reduction might be practicable, but certainly it was not so in those of the navy. Before concluding, he could not avoid expressing his disappointment, that no proposal had been made for rewarding the highly meritorious services of an individual who, by his intrepidity and zeal, had so well entitled himself to the approbation of his country men—he meant Captain Ross. If for no other reasons than the sufferings he had endured, he was entitled to some reward; but when it appeared, as it would shortly appear, by the production of his papers, that he had rendered considerable service by his discoveries, he thought the English nation would be acting very inconsistently with that character for liberality they had so justly acquired, if they did not make him some return for the perils he had encountered.—It was his intention, however, on an early day, to move that a grant of a sum of money be made to Captain Ross as a reward for the meritorious services he had rendered to his country, and he sincerely hoped, on that occasion, to meet with the support of the House.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  thought the right hon. Baronet would be extremely fortunate if his salary experienced no greater reduction than 500 l
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  wished to declare, looking at the recent treaty concluded between Russia and Turkey, by which the latter had become only a province of the former, and, looking to the present dubious state of affairs, that he should support the original Motion.
 Mr. Gisborne  must also say, though a friend to economy, that he could not support the Amendment of the hon. member for Middlesex.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, he should not object if they were not called upon to vote money. That money would go into the noble Lord's hands, but it would not remain there. Plenty of persons would come and take it out again.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that he objected to this vote. It surpassed in amount the sum required to maintain the navy and army of the United States of America, and the expenses of the embassies of those States to the different countries of Europe. He did not wonder at the people of this country being poor when they were called upon to pay such a sum as this for such a purpose; but if the House granted this vote, all he could say was, that the House could not, with any face, call upon the Ministers for a reduction of taxation. They might talk about the propriety of reducing the Malt-tax, the House-tax, or any other tax; but, if this vote were granted, would such a demand be reasonable? He thought not; and, therefore, he should divide the House upon this vote, thinking, as he did, that a Committee of Inquiry should be appointed to investigate the matter before such a sum of money was granted.
 Mr. Cobbett  complained of the manner in which the several charges for advertisements were mixed up with other charges, so that neither the amount nor the paper to which paid, nor the person by whom paid, appeared in the account. Thus, in page 6, was the following entry:—" Fuel, stamps, repairs, travelling charges on the public service, advertisements, and other expenses, 11,000 l 449
 Mr. Cobbett  did not understand the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. The hon. Gentleman said, that he should be astonished if his suggestion received support, but, at the same time, be rejoiced that the right hon. Baronet, the First Lord of the Admiralty, intended to alter a system which he said was scandalous. He (Mr. Cobbett) proposed to alter this system at once, but the hon. Member was opposed to such a proposition. He (Mr. Cobbett) could only express his surprise that the hon. Gentleman should lend his support, for a single moment, to a system which he had himself designated as scandalous.
 Mr. Cobbett  observed, that much had been said, on both sides of the House, on the present occasion as to the necessity of supporting an efficient navy; not, to be sure, for the purposes of war, but for the purposes of peace. He agreed with those who supported this proposition, because he thought the best way of preserving peace was by showing that we were at all times ready to go to war. Therefore he agreed with those who wished to maintain an efficient naval force, and he regretted, that the hon. member for Middlesex should have voted against it. But that was not the ground upon which he (Mr. Cobbett) wished to go. The hon. member for Middlesex was sometimes right—they were all sometimes right. For himself, he thought, that the navy did not consist of one man too many; that there were too many marines he would by-and-by endeavour to show. But it was not the number of the navy, but the cost of the navy, that was objected to. Let him state, and he trusted that hon. Members would attend to the fact, that, in 1782, we had 100,000 sailors and marines. We were then at war with France, Spain, and Holland; that war was carried on in different quarters of the world; and yet our naval expenditure, at that period, did not exceed the estimate proposed for the present year more than by a sum of 1,900,000 l 440 l l l l l l l l l l l l l 441
 Mr. Cobbett rose, and said, it was only last Session that they were assured particularly, and he might say solemnly, that accounts of every item should be furnished before they were called upon to grant the supplies, and yet they had hardly time to look at the estimates before they were called upon for their votes. The present estimates occupied forty-five folio pages, and contained upwards of 1,100 items; and he therefore considered that it was the bounden duty of every Member to look at every one of them before he voted the money. The right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) called upon the Members of the House to vote about 4,000,000 l 425 l l l
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that the right hon. Baronet had not stated the question correctly. He (Mr. Cobbett) did not oppose allowing half-pay to officers who really deserved it; but he objected entirely to the principle upon which it was at present granted. He contended, that the charge for half-pay was most exorbitant, and was much more than the country ought to be called upon to pay. It was, therefore, the duty of the House of Commons to inquire into the subject; and if the Reformed Parliament refused to do so, he at once declared it was not worth that. [Here the hon. Member struck the Table with much vehemence.]
 Mr. Finn  knew certain itinerants had been perambulating Ireland with the Bible in their hands, and had done more mischief, and excited more dissension, and, he might add, done more to destroy the Established Church than any Irish orators had ever done; and if a return were made of the number of their converts, it would be found to be very small, and that the motives which had induced them to become converts were not very creditable to either party. With regard to the English yeomen, it appeared that the Irish Protestants were to be saved from the Catholics by those gentlemen; he would, however, inform the hon. Member that the Protestants of Ireland were beginning to see their true position, and were disposed cordially to combine with the Catholics of that country to secure their mutual rights and freedom. In the county which he represented, there were 165,000 Roman Catholics, and only 5,000 Protestants; and there were ten parishes lying together in that county (Kilkenny), in which there was not one single Protestant. Was it, then, to be said that, with so large a majority of Catholics, they should be compelled to support an institution to which they did not belong?
 Sir Edward Codrington  deemed it materially essential to maintain a large marine force. The finest regiments in the empire would be found of little or no use if suddenly called into the marine service. Indeed it was always necessary to maintain a greater number of marines than might appear to be required. He was not opposed to economy, but it should be economy in a just degree, and judiciously exercised. They might reduce as much as they could, but, at the same time, justice should be done in the dock-yard. If reduction were to take place, it should run fairly through the entire Pension-list, and extend to the navy only in its just and proportionate degree. Economy attempted in any other manner would be false and injudicious.
 Sir James Graham  said, that as he was so personally alluded to, he felt it necessary to make a few, and only a few, observations. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down applied a test to his (Sir J. Graham's) sincerity in bringing forward the Motion alluded to when he sat at the other side of the House; and he would readily abide by that test. He then said, that the Consuls were overpaid, inasmuch as the charge for their services to the public was 90,000 l Hume l l 442 Several voices Lord Auckland l
 Sir James Graham : hoped the Committee would concur with him in thinking, that he should not discharge his duty, if he did not make some reply to the speech of the hon. member for Middlesex. The hon. Member was certainly a hard taskmaster. Notwithstanding the reduction of 3,300,000 l 435 l l
 Sir James Graham  said, that, from the manner in which the hon. Member had treated the question, he hardly knew whether he was serious or not. He would appeal to any Member of the House of more experience than the hon. Member, whether he ever recollected the estimates laid upon the Table within so short a period after the commencement of the Session. Last year he had gone very extensively into an explanation of the Navy estimates, and the estimates of the present year did not differ from those of the last year, except that they had been simplified. The first vote related to the number of men proposed to be maintained for the navy, and the hon. member for Oldham must have come to a conclusion upon that point. It was impossible to introduce the Mutiny Act until the number of men for the army and navy had been voted; under those circumstances, therefore, he hoped that the hon. Member would make no objection to the Speaker leaving the Chair.
 Sir James Graham , in moving the Navy Estimates, said, he might, perhaps, be permitted to congratulate the House on the prospect afforded by the financial year upon which the country was about to enter. The hon. Member (Mr. Cobbett) had adverted to the supposed indifference of Ministers to the voice of the people on the subject of taxation; but he (Sir J. Graham) would venture to direct the attention of the House to what had been already done in the way of reduction, and not only to the point how extensive that reduction had
 426 l l l l 427 l l 428 l l l l l l l l 429
 Sir James Graham  expressed his surprise, that the hon. Member, who was generally so accurate in his language, should have confounded an estimate with an Account. The two things were perfectly distinct. The papers on the Table were estimates of probable expenditure, not accounts of the past. If the hon. Member wished to have the particulars of any item of the last year, he would readily give it.
 Sir James Graham  did not see the least necessity for postponing the vote. The question was nothing more nor less than whether the House of Commons was prepared to perform a solemn contract, which had been entered into with the gallant officers who had fought the battles of the country? He should be ashamed to argue such a question; and he felt convinced, that such a proposition would not be entertained for a single moment by a House
 450
 Sir James Graham  would be perfectly prepared, when the proper time arrived, to discuss the question of superannuation. He thought that the principle upon which superannuation allowances were made at present was erroneous, and he had intended to have brought forward some measure on the subject; but the pressure of other business had hitherto prevented him from doing so. That, however, was not the question the House was called upon to discuss at the present moment. The question was, whether a positive engagement should be broken or not, which had been entered into with a number of gallant officers who had served their country for a number of years.
 Sir James Graham  had but little objection to the proposed reduction of his own salary, but assured the hon. Member, that, under the present consolidated system, it was absolutely necessary to have Lords of the Admiralty. Each presided over his separate department, which required his daily attention; and it was not possible that a smaller number of gentlemen could perform the duties required of them.
 Mr. Guest  did not allude to the half-pay, but to the civil superannuation allowances, which amounted to 1,600,000 l
 Mr. Guest  could not support the proposition of the hon. member for Oldham, and he should be greatly astonished if it met with any supporters. He rejoiced, that there was a probability that the system of superannuation would be altered, for, as it was at present, it was really scandalous.
 Sir Robert Peel  thought it important there should be no misunderstanding on the subject of a clerk's right to superannuate after a certain period of service. The right hon. Gentleman had stated, that a clerk had an absolute right to retire. Now, he had always understood, that, after forty years, a clerk was qualified to superannuate; but there was a discretion as to admitting it on the part of the Government. If his bodily health would permit his continuing in office, he had no
 448
 Lord Althorp  said, that the hon. Member, on reflection, would recollect, that he (Lord Althorp) at first proposed a reduction to the amount of 100,000 l l l l
 Lord Althorp  said, that last year he stated the House tax produced 1,400,000 l l l l l
 Lord Althorp  said, that he did not expect that he should be called upon to pay any large portion of the interest during the present year. To some of the colonies the money would be advanced at once, and would commence bearing interest from the 1st of August; at the same time, certainly not more than half the sum stated would be required this year. But, in stating this, he was sure that the House would agree with him that this circumstance would not justify him in making a permanent reduction in the revenue. It was his duty not to look to the temporary charge, but to the permanent charge, when he made his financial statement. He should be unmindful of his duty as Chancellor of the Exchequer if he adopted the advice of the hot). Gentleman, and proposed a further reduction of taxation on such grounds.
 Lord Althorp : I never said so.
 Mr. Pryme  agreed with the observations which had fallen from the hon. Member who had just sat down, relative to the expectations of the people not having been realised. When the present Administration had come into office, one great measure had absorbed all their attention, and as soon as that measure was passed, and that the Parliament had met, they found Ireland in a state of agitation from one end to the other, so that it was not safe for the resident gentry to reside there. Under these circumstances, what could they do, but press that coercive measure, for which, he must say, he was a reluctant voter. Many other hon. Members of that House, who had been originally averse to that measure, had been reluctantly converted to it from a consideration of the unfortunate position in which that country was placed. What Ireland required, in the first place, to insure her tranquillity, was a resident gentry; and, what was still more important, manufacturers, who would give employment to her labourers, and contribute to establish that retail trade which the hon. Member opposite had asserted was almost extinct. Were not the exports of that country many times greater than they were previous to the Union? and if the hon. and learned Member succeeded in getting the
 460
 The Earl of Ormelie  trusted that when the question was brought before the House it would be discussed calmly and satisfactorily. He would ask the hon. Member (Mr. O'Connor) how had these petitions been got up? Were they not procured by a system of intimidation? Had not associations been formed for the purpose of obtaining signatures?—was not the country agitated from one end to the other? He would merely ask the hon. Member to state under what circumstances these petitions had been got up.
 Mr. Ruthven  bore testimony to the courtesy and good disposition of the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary for Ireland. He believed that the right hon. Gentleman would be willing to do more than he did, were he not prevented by others. He must complain that the Government had lately refused the small sum of 300 l
 Mr. Fleetwood  wished to know whether it was the intention of the hon. and learned member for Dublin to include in his Bill the right of bringing civil actions against more than one party for the same libel?
 Mr. O'Connell  said, it was not his intention to limit the right of action to any given number of actions; but he thought, that the regulations which he had suggested, in respect to costs, would check the evil to which the hon. Gentleman alluded.
 Mr. Fleetwood  said, if the House would allow him, he would allude shortly to some of the details of the Bill proposed [" oh, oh bona fide 480
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he could not allow the observations of the noble Lord opposite, and those of the hon. Members on that side of the House, to pass without some remark. He could assure the noble Lord and those hon. Members, that the question of Repeal would be brought forward in a mode which would convince the House and this country of the necessity there was for its speedy discussion, and for its consequent success. In Ireland, the question was brought forward in a mode which must ensure its success. The whole people of Ireland, Protestant and Catholic, would in a short time be repealers—he might almost say are repealers. He would mention two instances of the rapid progress of the question in that part of Ireland, where it had, until very lately, but few advocates, and many and powerful opponents. In Armagh, where a candidate would not dare offer himself at the last election as a repealer, a meeting was lately held, and a petition for Repeal was adopted, signed by 1,500 persons, of whom 400 were Protestants. There was subsequently a dinner to commemorate the change of opinion on the subject in that county, and the
 462 Ormelie: Ormelie 463 464
 Mr. O'Connell : The leech swells with the blood it sucks.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, it was his anxious desire to trespass as briefly as possible upon the attention of the House in the discharge of the duty he had taken upon himself; and the importance of the subject would be his excuse for at all occupying the public time. As he thought the Libel-law was at present in a very unsatisfactory state, he could not foresee any very serious objection to giving him leave to bring in a bill for its amendment. How far the provisions of the Bill, which it was his intention to suggest, would meet the evils which were admitted to exist, was another and a different consideration, and should not in anywise be mixed up with the plain question before the House, which simply was, "Did the Libel-law require Amendment?" To the member for St. Alban's, he should apologise for, in some measure, having taken the subject out of his hands; and he should not have presumed to have done so, were it not that he had one advantage from practical knowledge. His professional experience had given him facilities of acquiring information upon the subject which no lay Gentleman, if he might so speak, could possibly possess. The basis of his plan, was to secure freedom of discussion—to give increased facilities to free and independent discussion. The object of the Libel-law, was the protection of character; his object was different. He was anxious to give increased power to the tribunal of public opinion, which had been sacrificed in a too great anxiety, though he did not condemn that, for the preservation of character. He did not mean to underrate the importance of affording efficient protection to character; but even that was secondary to the establishment of a tribunal found to be the most effectual in checking the progress of public and of private delinquency. He knew of no control over vice so great as public opinion; and it was, therefore, his wish to strike down those points of the Libel-law which interfered with its exercise—carefully retaining, however, such portions of it as, without chaining down discussion, would be found effectual for the protection of character. If he could succeed in preserving both advantages—if he could give additional facilities for the dissemination of public opinion—and he might add, too, of public morality, through the powerful medium of the Press; and, if he could, at the same time, give to every injured man a sufficient remedy for any
 469 l 470 471 472 l De Scandalo Magnatum 473 True Sun l l 474 475 ex-officio 476 The Brighton Guardian. l l 477 ex-officio 478 s l l l l
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  could not say that he thought his hon. and gallant friend who had just spoken had thrown much light upon the question before the House. That question appeared to him to be so simple, and to lie within so small a compass, that he thought he should best consult the convenience of the House and do full justice to the subject by saying a very-few words. He must confess that he had heard with surprise his hon. friend opposite, the hon. Baronet the member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. Inglis), charge his Majesty's Government with having yielded to popular clamour. Surely his hon. friend must have known that if ever there was a question which offered a temptation to give way to popular clamour, and, he must add also, to strong feeling, a Government not controlled by a strong sense of imperative duty, by the dictates of principle and justice, but seeking to obtain a momentary applause, and to establish itself upon popular feeling, would have conceded the Motion now made. As, however, he had contended, when on the other side of the House, so should he now contend, that the House had no right to control the Crown in the application of the fund placed at its disposal by Parliament for a special purpose, even though that fund should have been dispensed by the Minister. In the year 1828 he was in a minority in that House with his noble friend, upon the Motion of the hon. member for Middlesex for an inquiry into the Civil-List. He had so voted upon the ground upon which the hon. Member rested his Motion, viz., that there was gross abuse and corruption in the management of the Civil-List, and that some check was necessary. It was not now alleged that, as regarded the present Government, there was any foundation for a charge of abuse and corruption. He felt no disposition to shrink from responsibility upon that head. His hon. and gallant friend (Sir E. Codrington) had, however, placed the question upon grounds precisely opposite to those of the hon. member for Middlesex in 1828. He had said, that he should vote for inquiry, not because he
 526 527 l l 528 l l l l l l l 529 530
 Mr. O'Connell  did not rise to answer the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, but merely to supply a deficiency in his speech, namely, to state what the question before the House really was. The question was, whether the House would inquire into the pensions in the list on the Table. It was not whether they would strike off one of those pensions. The only question was for inquiry. What was the answer? The only answer given was by the right hon. member for Cambridge, who said, that it would be disgusting to inquire. He contended that even this was a ground for inquiry. What was there disgusting? The reasons for granting the pensions. Did the right hon. Gentleman call these reasons disgusting?
 531 l l de novo l Stanley 532 l 533 paulo post futurum
 Mr. Halcombe  said, that he should not have trespassed on the time of the House at that late hour, but that he wished to express to the House the extreme difficulty he felt in making up his mind to vote for the Amendment which the noble Lord had proposed. He must say, that he most cordially concurred in the sentiments which had been expressed by the right hon. Gentleman, the member for Cambridge, and that he should give his most strenuous opposition to any such Motion as that brought forward by the hon. member for Colchester. To concede to such a proposition, would be to commit a gross breach of honour and trust, and to be guilty of a direct infringement of the prerogative of the Crown. But he could not think the House would agree to the Motion of the hon. member for Colchester. Although he certainly should not support the proposition of that hon. Gentleman, he was still in difficulty as to whether he would be justified in voting for the Amendment of the noble Lord, for he saw, or thought he saw, insuperable obstacles in the way of his supporting that Amendment. The terms of it were not, he apprehended, generally known to hon. Members, and surely, before they proceeded to a division on the question, they ought to have some knowledge of it. If he understood the Amendment rightly, it went to pledge the House to advise the Crown to grant pensions only to those who had rendered personal services to his Majesty, who were eminent for their public services, or who had distinguished themselves by their scientific labours. He had taken some pains to understand the Amendment; but if he put a wrong interpretation upon it, he should be happy to
 539
 Mr. O'Dwyer  would merely protest against the strange accusation which the hon. member for Cork had made against the Chief Secretary for Ireland, that of being too courteous and conciliatory. He felt it his duty to say, and especially he felt it a duty, differing as he did most widely from the policy of the Government towards Ireland, to say, that the conduct of the right hon. Gentleman in his office, was such as to give satisfaction to all parties, as far as he could understand the public opinion in Ireland. The right hon. Gentleman had been, unfortunately for the Government, if not for himself, involved in one or two collisions with the people of the country; but these were legacies left him most injudiciously by his predecessors; and although the right hon. Gentleman should never have taken office subject to such an incumbrance, yet it might probably be judging him too severely to say, that he was to be considered entirely responsible for their acts. The hon. member for Mayo most egregiously deluded the Government and himself, when he stated, that the agitation of Repeal was founded on delusion. He would assert, in contradiction to the speech of the hon. Member, that the feeling in favour of a Repeal of the Union
 458 locus pœnitentiœ
 Mr. Harvey  observed, in reply, that the long and interesting discussion in which they had been engaged, had given rise, as might have been expected, to a variety of suggestions, some bearing fairly and fully upon the subject, some glancing lightly and partially upon it, and some not approaching it at all. The right hon. gentleman, the member for Cambridge, indeed, had reduced his opposition to the Motion, to a shape perfectly simple and intelligible, but not very applicable. The right hon. Gentleman had told them fairly
 541 542 543 544 545
 Mr. D. W. Harvey : * * 481 l 482 483 484 l l 485 486 l l l l l 487 Mirror of Parliament 488 489 l l 490 491 492 493
 Mr. Dominick Browne  did not wish to enter into the merits of the speech of the hon. Member who had just addressed the House, but he wished to convey to the House the real sentiments of the people of Ireland upon the question. He had reason to believe that they were acted upon by individual influence, and priestcraft, and that half the petitions would never have found their way to that House but for such influence. If the real sentiments of the people were known, they would be found to be heartily and sincerely attached to England. They had been deluded by the declarations of individuals, by their own ignorance, and by a latent power in that country to make them think that Eng-
 456
 Mr. Divett  had seen, with extreme regret, the course which his Majesty's Ministers had taken. He was sorry to say, that the noble Lord was not following up the principles which he had professed, and that he obliged him to vote against the Government, to which he was conscious that the people owed many and great obligations. He could not see anything whatever that ought to prevent the inquiry called for on the Motion of the hon. member for Colchester. The pensions, if legal at all, could not be legal for more than one reign. The noble Lord had been pleased to acknowledge that the pensions were odious to the country, and he could say, that they were most thoroughly and most justly odious, to every class of the people. Much more than the amount of the List was involved in the question. There was a principle involved, and it must be obvious to every man that, in the cases of the abuse of power which the noble Lord had acknowledged, the pensions which had resulted from such abuse ought to be done away with. There was another ground on which he felt it his duty to support the motion. It would be the duty of that House very shortly to inquire into the evils of the Poor Laws. Vast numbers of paupers were supported at the expense of the industrious, and if in the investigation of the Poor Laws the House went into that subject, it would behove them much more to examine into the cases of those who were connected with the aristocracy, and were possessed of large property, and who were yet living on the people. He deeply regretted that Ministers intended
 501
 Mr. Edward Ruthven  supported the Motion for inquiry; for it was highly wrong that parties nearly or actually connected with the aristocracy of the country should be supported in splendour and luxury at the expense of the most useful portion of the community—the labouring and working classes. On that ground alone he should be induced to support the Motion for an investigation into the nature of the claims of those whose names appeared in the list, not only before the House, but before the whole country. That list was, in fact, public property, and as such he would deal with it. He would take a very few instances, and those he would confine to Ireland. The first names he should mention were those of Eliza, Gertrude, and Mary Gossett. It appeared that in the years 1828, and 1829 pensions had been granted to them; as the period of the grant was so very recent, he presumed that if an inquiry should be decided upon by the House, it would not be very difficult to prove any services these ladies might have performed to the country by which they became entitled to the pensions of 122 l l l l A laugh l l l l l 524 l s d l
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  presented a petition from the inhabitants of the town of Cove, in the county of Cork, for the repeal of the Legislative Union; and, in doing so, he was almost inclined to agree with the hon. member for Kent, that they should have very little hope from the presentation of all these petitions, when they were obliged to go on presenting them day after day without any of his Majesty's Ministers being present, who had stated that they would resist this question to the death. He was almost at a loss to know what course he should pursue, more especially at a time when the cry for the Repeal of the Union was become so prevalent. The petition which he held in his hand was from the town of Cove; and he conceived that the inhabitants had a good right to complain of the Union, for their town had been formerly flourishing and prosperous, and now it had been deprived of all its resources, for the little that had been left had lately been taken from them. What had that House done for Ireland, that Irishmen should not expect something from a domestic Legislature? What measure had been passed in the Reformed Parliament, either of grace, or justice, which could give satisfaction to the Irish people? He was happy to see the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) in his place and he would say, in his presence,—that no Ministry had done more to destroy the confidence existing between Catholics and Protestants, than the Ministry of which the noble Lord formed a part. It had been said, that they looked for other measures besides the Repeal of
 454 455 l
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  begged to assure the noble Lord, that he was not aware of any system of intimidation or terror further than this, that Catholic tenants had been ejected from their farms by Protestant landlords for attending Repeal meetings. He had never heard of any associations having been formed for such a purpose, nor did he believe that any such existed. One word, with regard to what had fallen from the hon. and learned member for Drogheda, who had taken upon himself the office of apologist for the right hon. Secretary for Ireland. He wished the hon. and learned Gentleman had
 461
 Mr. Shaw  did not wish to say one word against the gentlemanly conduct of the right hon. Secretary for Ireland, for he had always found him most courteous and obliging; but he could easily see why the popular Press had not opened upon him; those connected with that part of the Press believing that he was under the patronage and protection of the hon. member for Dublin. He would not say that he countenanced his views, but he did not oppose them with that spirit which might have been expected. He was sure that the right hon. Secretary countenanced no party, nor ever would; for himself, he would say, that he had always avoided being liable to be denominated a political partizan. It was true, that circumstances had occurred that caused him to take a part that would give colour for such an accusation; but he would appeal to any gentleman in Ireland or the House, whether he had ever been considered a violent party man? He was willing to give the right hon. Secretary for Ireland credit for being of no party, but he could not give him credit for much firmness. He did not believe that any Government had done so much as the present to forward the views, and give force to the measures, of the hon. member for Dublin. The decision of the House, in the case of Baron Smith, he believed, would spread dismay throughout Ireland, and fill the minds of the people of that country with disgust and amazement. For his own part, he believed that Baron Smith had never done more than adopt the course which he conscientiously believed, as a man, the circumstances of the country required; and he felt confident that every man, from the highest to the lowest, would lose all confidence in the Irish Government if the consequences of that decision were visited upon Baron Smith. If such a course were adopted, the people would think the Government acceded to the
 466
 Mr. Robinson  would support the Resolution of the hon. member for Colchester upon its own merits, and because the noble Lord's Amendment offered no answer to the Motion. The noble Lord's Resolutions contained a string of truisms to which anybody might assent and nevertheless vote for an inquiry, inasmuch as the Amendment had no bearing on the question, and was of no value whatsoever. The noble Lord had made two important admissions, of which he hoped the House would not lose sight; first, that, legally speaking, those pensions had no existence after the death of the Sovereign by whom they were granted; and secondly, that there were many names on the list which ought never to have been there. He rested his support of the hon. Member's Motion on those two propositions of the noble Lord. The noble Lord argued as if Parliament was about to take away the pensions of deserving persons; but he (Mr. Robinson) denied the desert of the parties, and was satisfied that if they were deserving, we should never have heard a word against the Pension-list either within the walls of Parliament or out of doors. His notion was, that if a Committee were granted, every person who could show a decent claim to reward for public services would have his pension continued, and that even in doubtful cases, where pensions had been enjoyed for a number of years, and distress would follow their abolition, the utmost consideration would be bestowed previous to the adoption of a decided course. All he asked was, that where there existed no pretence of public service, and no just claim on public munificence, and where parties were able
 506
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, that his Majesty's Ministers had called those persons who supported the Repeal of the Union, disloyal subjects; but such was not a true description, and the employment of such language could only gall every one with-
 459
 Mr. James Kennedy  supported the Motion. The Government was by no means in an enviable situation, as it was forsaken by its old friends, and was looking for support, on the present occasion, from those who had been its deadliest opponents.
 Mr. Hardy  was anxious to give a vote on the present occasion that would be satisfactory to his own conscience, and at the same time prevent injustice being done to any human being. He now stood forward as the advocate of the honour and fair fame of those who were involved in the inquiry for which the hon. member for Colchester sought. It was not by this Motion that odium could be thrown upon them. They would suffer more by the ambiguous attempt of the noble Lord to stifle inquiry, than by any other means that could be suggested. The rejection of the Motion of the hon. member for Colchester, would lead to the conviction, that there was something foul and disgusting in the Pension-list, which it would be unsafe to disclose; but he denied that, and stood forward there to vindicate the major part of the persons named in that list, from the aspersions which had so unjustly been cast upon them. He had the honour of knowing one person whose wife enjoyed a pension; and he could, for him, and he might add, for the great majority placed in the like circumstances, assure the House, that they desired nothing so much as a full and fair inquiry. A few persons might receive pensions which they had not deserved; but although a disgusting case might here and there be found, was it just that ninety-nine persons should suffer undeserved imputation, because of the turpitude of one individual? Inquiry would prevent any such injustice; and if he wanted an argument in favour of this assertion, he had only to refer to the proceedings that had
 540
 Mr. Roebuck  agreed with the noble Lord, that there ought to exist a power somewhere of rewarding merit; but, at the same time, he would maintain, that that House ought to possess the power to determine whether that power had been exercised properly or not. If it appeared to the House, as the Representatives of the people, that the advisers of the Crown had improperly applied the money of the people, it followed, as a necessary consequence, that not only the responsible advisers ought to receive punishment, but that the persons who obtained the money ought no longer to receive it. If that House had been induced to pass an improper law—if it had been misled to confirm improper rights—the best thing it could do would be to abolish the law, and to destroy such rights. Every day that House was employed in curtailing legal rights, and in abolishing laws. If, in abolishing rights, the House did any individual wrong, it was the custom to com-
 499 500
 Mr. Hume  was really surprised at the speech of the noble Lord, representing, as he did, a large constituency, which he would say, had done itself honour in sending him into that House, pledged as he was to support every system of economy that was consistent with honour. The noble Lord had admitted that many of these grants were most improper, and had said that it was his wish, in concordance with the resolution of the Cabinet, to have the money allotted to the Crown properly applied, and to what purposes? The noble Lord said, that it was money in trust for the people, granted to the Crown to reward merit, to support those who from rank and station had fallen into misfortune and distress, and to assist men of literature and science. He thought that the noble Lord, instead of talking in this loose and general way, had better attend to the sound sense and shrewd observation of the hon. member for Exeter; for, with what face could the noble Lord come down to the house and say, "I will introduce a law which will take from the poor man the scanty pittance which the law now allows him, but I will not even permit an inquiry into the circumstances of the noble pauper, who is quartered on the public, lest it should deprive him of the large portion of public money on which he now lives in luxury and comfort?" Was this politic? He would not ask, was it just? The poor man had no connexions upon earth to assist him, and might starve if deprived of his miserable dole; but the noble pauper had connexions to assist and support him in case he was deprived of the public booty on which he had so long fattened. Was it
 503 l 504 l amende honorable l 505 l
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  was persuaded that the people of Ireland were not anxious for the Repeal of the Union, but their miserable condition had brought them into that state of mind that they would be better for a change of any kind. He thought the opinion was growing very fast in the House, and gaining ground out of it, that until the measure alluded to by an hon. Gentleman opposite, namely, the performance of full and unlimited justice to Ireland, and affording the people full opportunity of earning their livelihood honestly—until some such measure was carried into effect—tranquillity could not be restored to Ireland. There were hundreds and thousands of individuals dependent for their very subsistence upon the caprice of a single landlord. An hon. Member had mentioned the other day an instance of a landlord who ejected at once more than 300 families, consisting of upwards of 1,000 individuals, from their homes, and from their only means of subsistence. No wonder, then, that such a people, so distracted and distressed, should be ready for the Repeal of the Union, or the dismemberment of the empire, or any other mad project which promised them relief. If, therefore, the Government wished to reduce the agitation, and to disarm the
 467
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, the hon. member for Middlesex had declared that he sought no economy inconsistent with honour. It was on that admission that he opposed the Motion; and unless the hon. Member could draw a distinction between honour and justice, he thought he should be able to satisfy the House on that principle, that the Motion was objectionable; and he then trusted that he should not find himself in the minority which the hon. member for Middlesex seemed to anticipate. It had been, observed by the hon. member for Bath, that the sum in question was small in comparison with the gross expenditure of the country; true—but a subject like this could not be entertained as a mere question of economy. The hon. member for Middlesex had certainly swelled the amount most enormously by the somewhat preposterous computation of compound interest. This was raising up a phantom—a phantom, which, though it might produce but little effect in that House, was calculated to make a great
 507 508 No, no 509 l l l l l 510 511 512 l 513 514 515 516 517 Sydney-park, Glocester, July 21, 1832. My dear Sir,—There are two pansions, together amounting to 600 l Believe me very sincerely yours, CHARLES BATHURST. 518 No. 1, Saville-street, Jan. 16, 1834. Sir,—I do myself the honour of addressing you to request that you will inform the right hon. the Lords of the Treasury that I resign the pension of 1,000 l I have the honour to be, Sir, Your most obedient and most humble servant, JAMES CARRICK MOORE, To the Hon. Thomas Spring Rice, &c. 519
 Mr. Finn  begged to say, that the motives for getting up so many petitions in favour of the Repeal of the Union, were not caused by terror. Perhaps the hon. member for Mayo, might be displeased to find that petitions from that county were intrusted to him. But it was not wonderful when the hon. Member's constituents, on such a question, differed from him,  toto cœlo 457 l l
 Sir Edward Codrington  was understood to say, that under all the circumstances, he not only wished for, but should vote for the inquiry. He was satisfied that in case it should be shown that these pensions had been honourably acquired by meritorious services, even the lowest classes in the community, as the labouring people had been termed by some hon. Members, would most cheerfully contribute to the fund. He called on the Government to draw a comparison in the Pension-list between those granted for naval and for civil services, and he could venture to say that the former would be found to have been much worse remunerated than any others. Though a man might serve twenty years in the navy, it was not until he entered a civil department under Government that he began to raise his title to a pension. He maintained that many unjust decisions had taken place
 525
 Sir Francis Vincent  rejoiced most sincerely to find that this matter had been taken up by such an able advocate as the hon. and learned member for Dublin. In many of the arguments which had been urged by the hon. and learned Member, he perfectly concurred, but he would not say much on the present occasion, as another opportunity would occur for him to state his sentiments. He was glad that the subject of proceeding by information was to be altered, and the very instance of the indictment of the editor of the  Brighton Guardian
 Sir Harry Verney  was sure that the people of Ireland, must know that the Repeal of the Union would greatly impoverish that country, by preventing the sale of the produce of the land. There was one class of persons in this country who suffered severely from the connexion of this country with Ireland—he meant the English farmers and landlords. If the produce of Ireland were not imported into this country, his own land would be worth a third more than it was at present. He, however, was content to suffer this diminution of his property, but he feared it would be an argument of the hon. member for Dublin to the farmers and people of England, that the importation of Irish produce materially affected their interests; and this he felt was an argument with which it would be difficult to deal.
 Mr. Jervis  had intended to move, as an Amendment to Mr. O'Connell's Motion, "That a Select Committee be appointed to Inquire into the existing Law of Libel, and to Report to the House what Alter-
 479
 Sir Robert Inglis  contended that nothing could be more impolitic or unjust than for that House to violate the compact it had made with the Crown with reference to its Civil-list, and more particularly after having limited the power of the Crown in the granting of pensions hereafter to an amount equal to only one-third of the power formerly exercised. After this compact the Crown was no longer responsible for the distribution of pensions. He regretted that the noble Lord had not placed his opposition to the Motion upon higher grounds than those he had selected. He regretted that he had not made a stand against the popular cry against pensions, and at once declared, that the Crown possessed constitutionally the right to grant pensions as the reward of particular instances of science, merit, and personal distress, without giving any account of its motives or the grounds upon which such grants were made. The hon. member for Colchester had told them that that House would never be insensible to a case of real distress—that it would not fail to attend to such a case, and make adequate provision for it. For his part he had no such confidence in the good feeling of popular assemblies. Ever since the Chamber of Deputies in France had refused to vote the pensions of the widows of persons killed during the three days of July, his confidence in popular assemblies had much diminished. Within the last month that assembly had refused two pensions which the Minister would never have thought of refusing. Yet it was to such a body the hon. and learned member for Colchester proposed to assimilate that House as the organ of public opinion. If that House were to become the dispenser of pensions instead of the Crown, there would be no common prin-
 521
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that his personal feelings would induce him to support the Motion, after the charges, which had been brought against former Governments, implying, that the exposure of their acts would be followed by the severest condemnation. He gave credit to his Majesty's Government for their disinterestedness in opposing the Motion. He believed that their conduct was influenced by public principle; for the present Government could have no personal motive to oppose the inquiry. When he heard former Governments charged with acts of the grossest corruption, and with having been influenced by motives of the most improper character, he felt called upon to answer these accusations. He must appeal to those Members of former Governments who were also Members of the present Government, whether any such iniquitous proceedings as they had that night heard described, had ever, to their knowledge, been committed. He was satisfied that, if the list of pensions were inquired into, the result of the inquiry would not, in the slightest degree, substantiate such a charge. He positively denied that the result would prove any iniquities or offences. [" Inquire then 534 535 l 536 l l 537 l l l 538
 Sir Samuel Whalley  begged to say, that if this Motion could be construed into a violation of contract, he for one should be ashamed to support it; but he regarded it in no such light. He was ready to admit the solemnity of the contract to which the hon. member for Cambridge had alluded but he would observe, that this Motion did not go to take from the Crown any portion of the Pension-list at its disposal. The sole effect of the Motion, if carried, would be to inquire how the Crown, acting by the advice of its responsible Ministers, had dealt out that 75,000 l 520
 Lord Althorp , in explanation of what he said in 1828, observed, that the hon. member for Colchester had not read the whole passage from his speech, but had only quoted as much as suited his (Mr. Harvey's) purpose. He had not said, that those pensions should be taken away which had been given improperly, but that
 546
 Lord Althorp  thought, it would be desirable to bring in a Bill to amend the law of libel, and therefore he would not oppose the Motion of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, though he hoped he should not be understood as acceding to the details, because he was disposed to go to a certain extent with the hon. and learned Gentleman; but he thought that the hon. and learned Gentleman's plan went farther than he should be disposed to go. The hon. and learned Gentleman had divided the question into two parts—namely, criminal prosecutions, and those by civil actions. In the first instance he thought the hon. and learned Gentleman, as far as he could understand him, went to this length, that truth might be pleaded and proved in cases of criminal prosecution. In cases of private libels, this system would operate most injuriously. With regard to cases of criminal information, though he, with the feelings which he entertained as to Grand Juries, would prefer a Bill being found by them to  ex-officio
 Lord Althorp  could bear testimony to the courteous manners and kind feelings for which the right hon. Secretary for Ireland was peculiarly distinguished. He had known his right hon. friend for a long time, and part of that time intimately; and he could say, that it did not surprise him that the right hon. Gentleman had gained the popularity he had, for he knew of no person who was better calculated to attract and deserve it. He was very glad to find that the question of the Repeal of the Union was to be debated in a manner that became a question of such import-
 465
 Lord Althorp  assured the hon. Gentleman, that the Commission was not issued with the slightest intention on the part of the Government to give the question the "go by." He confessed that during a former discussion he said, that he was, indeed, very far from having made up his mind on the subject. The information possessed by Government, and that possessed by the hon. Member himself, fell very far short of being sufficient to establish the fact, that Poor-laws would be beneficial to Ireland. It would not be prudent for any Government to make such a change without full inquiry and the completest information that could be obtained. It was from want of that information that Government thought they would be unable to introduce the question this Session.
 Lord Althorp  said, that before going into the general question which had been brought forward, he was anxious to disembarrass it of some circumstances in which the memory of the hon. and learned member for Colchester had certainly failed him, with respect to the Debates and Resolutions winch on former occasions had taken place. The hon. Member had stated, that the Amendment moved by the right hon. Baronet the member for Dundee (Sir Henry Parnell) on the subject of the Civil-list, was to refer the Pension-list to a Select Committee; but, in reality, it was to refer the whole of the Civil-list to a Committee, and, as far as he recollected the Debate, he did not think the Pension-list had been very particularly insisted on. Again, the hon. and learned Gentleman had attributed to him the opinion, that this was to be an open question. Now, he had admitted, certainly on the occasion referred to, when proposing a grant of money for a particular period, and postponing for some time the bringing forward of the Civil-list Act, that up to that time it was open; but he had never stated, that it would be generally open, for after the Civil-list Act was passed, such an opinion would be directly contrary to the provisions of the Act itself. He had stated, when the hon. and learned Gentleman formerly introduced the subject, that it would be extremely difficult to vindicate all the grants in the Pension-list; but what was the real question which the House had now to decide? He apprehended the proposition of the hon. and learned Gentleman amounted to this—that a Committee be appointed to inquire into the pensions, with a view to decide
 494 495 l l l l l l l l l l l l 496 Cries of No 497 That it appears, from papers before the House, that, upon the accession of his late Majesty, the charge for pensions on the Civil-list of England and Ireland, the hereditary revenue of Scotland, and the four and a-half per cent duties, stood as follows:— 
 
 England £74,200 
 Ireland 67,377 
 Scotland 37,191 
 Four and a half percents 24,290 
 203,058 
 
 England £74,200 
 Ireland 51,155 
 Scotland 30,467 
 Four and a half percents 25,122 
 180,944 498 l l l l l
 Lord Ebrington  was of opinion, that Ministers ought not on such an occasion to shrink from uttering their sentiments or from acting upon them. His mind was not influenced by any party motives or personal considerations, and he might state, that he acted from no feelings of sympathy with any of those whose individual interests were involved in the discussion. In looking at the list of these pensions, he certainly saw much reason to condemn those who had advised the granting of many of them. He was also fully aware of the excitement which prevailed out of doors on this question, and of the great obloquy which all who opposed the motion would be liable to. He could have no motive except a sense of public duty for taking the course which he certainly should take. He hoped that he never would be disposed to shrink from the performance of his public duty. Whatever reluctance he might feel in addressing that House, it did not proceed from his wishing to shrink from the responsibility of his vote, or from any fear or reluctance to expose the grounds on which he voted. The question before the House had assumed a very different shape from that which it used to bear, for, since the former motion that had been made upon the subject, the pensions, which from time immemorial had been granted for the lives of the persons holding them, had been sanctioned and confirmed by the laws of Parliament. It was, therefore, on the ground of those acts, it was on the ground that Parliament stood pledged on the subject, that he rested his opposition to the present motion. His noble Friend in his Resolutions had strongly laid down the future responsibility of all Ministers who advised the granting of pensions; and, he trusted, that his Majesty's Ministers, and all others that might hereafter fill their situations, would feel that pensions were not to be disposed of at the mere will, the pleasure, or caprice of the Sovereign, but that they were to be granted in the execution of a trust by the King in disposing of the public money, and that they were to be given solely as the reward of merit. He trusted, that the principle would be strongly borne in mind in future; but feeling that the present pensions were
 502
 Lord Morpeth  felt desirous of offering to the House a few observations in explanation of the vote which it was his intention to give on the present question—a vote which, without explanation, might apparently be contrary to the principles which he had ever maintained. He was most decidedly of opinion that no pension, pay, salary, or remuneration, should be given except in return for good services, or for merits of the highest and
 522 523
 Mr. Ruthven  was aware of the great distress that prevailed in the agricultural class; it was communicated to the House by the Speech of his Majesty; but there was no use in suggesting remedies by taking off the Malt, or Window, or House-taxes; the great debt of the nation should be reduced; the interest of that enormous debt should be lowered; for otherwise nothing could avert the general calamity that was impending over the country.
 Mr. Strickland  said, he should hear a proposition for the increase of taxes with pain. All the country were looking for a reduction of taxation; and any argument, drawn from what he could not help calling spurious morality, was a very bad one. There was no greater fallacy than to say that, by placing a tax on the spirits and food of the people, their condition could be improved. They would not, by that, be improved, either in their habits or virtuous principles; but, increase their education, and the effect would be immediate on both. They would become soon sensible of their own bad habits, and the dreadful effects of ardent spirits on their health. Instruction was the quickest mode of bettering a people, because it made them susceptible of good feeling, and taught them to appreciate the advantages of virtuous habits. To increase taxation could never alleviate the people's distress. He most heartily concurred with the hon. Gentleman who wished for a repeal of the Malt-tax, for he knew that the agriculturists were in a state of great distress, and he should be most happy to hear that the state of the revenue allowed of the repeal of that lax. The Corn-laws had brought the trade of this country to an unnatural state, and if they were revised, that would afford the greatest relief to the people at large. With regard to the question of reducing the rentals, hon. Members must
 555
 Mr. Strickland  concurred in the necessity of introducing such a Bill as that of which the hon. member for Cirencester had given notice. It was perfectly true that, at present, when the Coroner was elected by the whole county, any person seeking that office was put to an enormous expense. It was said, that, occasionally, so large a sum as 100,000 l l 559
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  was disposed to support the principle of the measure. But it had been strongly urged by many Coroners that additional remuneration should be given them for their trouble. There could be no doubt, certainly, that at present plenty of candidates were to be found to fill up the vacancies as they occurred, and, therefore, there might not appear any grounds for a Motion to increase the allowances. Seeing, however, that Coroners were allowed only 9 d s
 Captain Yorke  would be very happy to give relief of any description; but he looked with great suspicion upon the repeal of the Malt-tax, as a mode of giving relief to the agriculturists. He questioned much whether, in the end, it would give relief, as he felt that, if the
 550
 Lord Henniker  presented a petition, signed by 1,600 of the inhabitants of the hundred of Hoxne, praying, that the Malt-tax might be repealed. They complained of the great agricultural distress of the country, which they attributed, in a great measure, to the Malt-tax, and other taxes bearing on agriculture. He fully concurred in the statement of the agricultural distress, and in the general prayer of the petition.
 Lord William Lennox , said the hon. member for Salford had talked of the agricultural interests holding a monopoly. He knew of none that they possessed. It was admitted, on all sides, that they were greatly distressed; and yet a few hon. Members talked of their burthens being lighter than those of the manufacturing interests. Had hon. Members ever looked into the Poor-rates? If they had, they would see how the landed interest was taxed. He would prove, that the agricul-
 551 
 
 Principally Agricultural. Population. Total Expenditure, Poor Rates. About average cost per head. 
 1821. 1831. 1821. 1831. 1821. 1831. 
 £ £ £ s d £ s d 
 Norfolk 344,368 390,054 267,869 358,227 0 15 6 0 18 4 
 Suffolk 270,542 269,304 244,801 313,405 0 18 1 1 1 2 
 Essex 289,424 317,233 288,911 324,421 0 19 10 1 0 5 
 Sussex 233,019 272,328 276,499 328,709 1 3 8 1 4 2 
 Principally Manufacturing. 
 Lancaster 1,052,859 1,336,854 288,688 421,770 0 5 6 0 6 3 
 Staffordshire 345,895 410,485 151,177 179,036 0 8 8 0 8 8 
 Warwickshire 274,392 336,988 164,799 210,502 0 12 0 0 12 6 
 York, West Riding. 801,274 976,415 330,510 376,092 0 8 3 0 7 8 
 England 11,261,437 13,089,358 6,674,938 8,316,651 0 11 10 0 12 8
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  thought it would be a very proper measure to lay an additional duty upon spirits. He had reason to believe that a proposition would be made from Scotland for an increase of the duty upon spirits. The returns from the police would show to what a lamentable extent demoralization prevailed there in consequence of the consumption of ardent spirits. A proposition would be brought forward, for raising the duty on spirits in Scotland to that of England.
 Mr. Charles A. Walker  admitted, that absenteeism was a great curse to Ireland, but, at the same time, he must say, that many of the absentee landlords of that country were as merciful to their tenants as the residents. He admitted that the absentee landlords did great injury by spending their property in another country, but, with respect to the aristocracy of Ireland, he must be allowed to say, that they were not tyrants over their peasantry. The tyrants were not the aristocracy or the gentlemen, but the middlemen, who took the land from the landlord. Last year there was a kind of set made against the landlords and landed interest of Ireland. They were now saddling the landlords with the county cess, with tithes, and poor-rates, and threatened them with a repeal of the Corn-laws. There must be a reduction of rent if the Corn-laws were repealed, and in that case the landlords of Ireland would receive nothing.
 Mr. Edward Ruthven  said, that, in Ireland, the interests of the occupiers of the soil, and of the owners of the soil, were two very different things. The owner of the soil, in that country, took from the occupier every fraction that the soil produced, except a bare sustenance. The occupier made nothing by his labour but the food he consumed; not so in England, where the occupier or farmer required more than food and sustenance for his family. He was quite satisfied, that so long as landlords kept up the present high rates of land, the people would be in poverty and distress.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  represented a large agricultural county in Ireland, and therefore wished to show the distinction between these two classes in the two countries. In England, as soon as any portion of the fair profits of the occupier were taken away, he began to complain; but in Ireland the agriculturist never complained until all was gone. This was neither an agricultural, nor a manufacturing question. The two interests must stand or fall together. The noble Lord, when he brought forward his budget the other night, had played them a pretty trick. He took off 1,200,000 l l 552
 Mr. Finch  conceived it to be a great absurdity to say, that the interests of the manufacturer and the agriculturist were different. He was persuaded, in his own mind, that a repeal of the Corn-laws would be very injurious to the manufacturing interest. The exportation of English manufactures would not only be greatly diminished, but the price would be very materially affected. Something, in his opinion, ought to be done to relieve the distress of the agriculturists. They had suffered very severe losses, which had occasioned a destruction of capital that was almost incredible; and to suppose, in their present state, they could compete with the Northern countries of Europe, where their productions were untaxed, would be to suppose the greatest of all absurdities. This effect, however, would be produced by a repeal of the Corn-laws—it would throw immense tracts of land, not only in this country, but more particularly in Ireland, out of cultivation. Whether the House should feel disposed to repeal the Malt-duty or not, something must be done to relieve the agriculturists from the burthens by which they were now oppressed.
 Mr. Sinclair  said, that the rent of land was everywhere falling, and, notwithstanding the reduction of rent, the prosperity of the farmers was not on the increase. It would astonish the agriculturists of Scotland not a little, when they found those classes who were declared to be in a state of prosperity, were receiving that relief from taxation which was withheld from another class who were said not to be in a flourishing condition.
 Mr. Warburton  regretted that the hon. Member had confined himself merely to the election of Coroners. He (Mr. Warburton) should feel it his duty to give notice of the introduction of a declaratory clause, to the effect that the Coroner's Court was an open Court. At present the general opinion was, that it was an open Court; but it would be very desirable that a declaratory clause to that effect should be introduced into the Bill.
 Mr. Hardy  was of opinion, that the Malt-tax should be repealed, and an additional tax laid on spirituous liquors—the consumption of which was so general, and the bad effects of which were so universally felt. It was for the interest and happiness of the manufacturing classes, that the Malt-tax should be repealed, as then they could brew their own beer.
 Mr. Hardy  fully concurred in the observations made by the hon. Member (Mr. Johnston) in favour of increasing the tax on spirits. Some speculative evils might be imagined from the increase of taxation, perhaps, but they bore no comparison with the overwhelming evils that daily afflicted the country from the use of that "liquid fire" which the people were in the habit of drinking. He was an advocate for education certainly; but every improvement that could be made in the morality of the people should be effected, independently of improving their education. It was not to be supposed that there were not different modes of increasing the comfort and bettering the habit of a people as well as teaching them writing and arithmetic. Do away with the gin-shops, and it would have the most salutary effects on the minds of the people.
 Mr. Poulter : Sir, in rising to move for leave to bring in a Bill to extend the provisions of the Statute 11 Geo. 2, c. 19, sect. 15 and to apply the principle of equitable apportionment to all property which consists in periodical and fixed money-payments, such as rents, rent-charges, annuities, and dividends of all kinds, where the party dies before the day of payment, it is more difficult to assign a cause why so obvious and just a principle should have been so long neglected, than to suggest a reason-able ground for the proposed Legislative enactment. In all subjects relating to the payment of public officers, the principle has been fully admitted and acted upon, and though formerly the Judges were dependent for their salaries on the event of their living to the day of payment, that defect has been remedied by Act of Parliament. If a rule is so equitable, that it has been introduced, without exception, into all subjects of modern creation and of public institution, why should it be any longer excluded from matters of property? The evil has its origin in nothing but an old technical rule of the common law, originating in feudal times, that rent is indivisible, and must go entirely to the person entitled on the day it becomes due; so that, if a party has a life-interest in a rent of any amount whatever, and
 556 casus omissus. 557
 Mr. Brotherton  said, he would vote for an alteration in the Corn-laws. It would tend to the prosperity of the landed and manufacturing interests. At present, the landowners enjoyed a monopoly which was injurious to the rest of the community; and, as long as that was continued, he should object to the repeal of the Malt-tax; though, if the agricultural interest were wise, it would give up its monopoly and encourage manufactures, as the surest method to increase the value of land.
 Mr. Cripps  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the law regulating County Coroners (England). The subject which he introduced to the House had been already brought under its notice; and he thought it was one well entitled to the consideration of the Legislature. The contests at Coroners' elections, the feuds and bad feeling they produced, and the ruinous expense with which they were often attended, were evils that called for the interposition of Parliament. At present the election was vested in the voters of the county at large, though the duties of the officer might be confined to a particular district. It was highly desirable that the election of a judicial functionary like a Coroner should not be carried by means that tended to produce discord and immorality. He would propose that the
 558 s
 Mr. Potter  was quite sure that the manufacturing and commercial interests were opposed to monopolies; and that in general they were the advocates of free trade. Honourable Gentlemen from the agricultural districts complained of the great pressure of the poor-rates; but he could not help thinking a good deal of it was occasioned by mismanagement. In Manchester the poor-rate, for the last seven years, had not averaged more than 3 s d 553
 Mr. Hodges  presented a petition from Leeds, Kent, praying for a repeal of the Malt-tax. In his opinion, there could be no more substantial relief to the agriculturists than the repeal of the Malt-tax. With regard to the observation, that the rent ought to be reduced as a means of relief, it was a matter of notoriety, that, on all the middling land of England, the rent had already fallen, and, in a short time, he feared a similar fall would extend over the whole country.
 Sir Charles Burrell  could assure hon. Members, that the reduction of rents throughout England upon the Poor-lands had been above one-half. He thought it right to state this plainly and fairly. He was sure that it had been more than that upon his own land, and upon that of most of his neighbours. It was right that this should be stated, because misrepresentations had gone abroad. When the trading interests were distressed, they obtained relief in various ways from the Government; and he thought there should be no unkind feeling on their part towards the landed interest, who were their best customers.
 Mr. O' Connell  wished to say one word upon this subject. It was his duty to take notice of it, on account of the great difference of opinion which prevailed amongst those with whom he generally acted. It was supposed that Ireland derived a great benefit from the Corn-laws This was not his opinion, and if it were, the principle applicable to these laws would induce him, for the sake of giving cheap human food to the poorer classes, to desire their repeal. The question was whether they were to have cheap bread—
 570
 Mr. O'Connell  considered that the hon. Gentleman mis-stated what he had said, though, perhaps, not intentionally. What he said was, that by rendering food cheaper, land would be improved, and ground in the neighbourhood of large cities, which was now under corn, would then be turned into gardens. The advantage of dear food was all on the landlord's side. All his interest was landed interest—it was to be sure very small, compared to the great landed proprietors of that
 571
 Mr. Ruthven  said, that from the pressure of taxation on the country, he had little doubt, unless some measures of relief were afforded, the forebodings of the hon. member for Birmingham (Mr. T. Attwood) would prove but too true. It was impossible for the country to keep up all its establishments, and at the same
 572
 Mr. O'Connell  did not perceive that the right hon. Gentleman had any right to ask the House to suspend its opinion until the bill should come before it, if the principles of that bill were the same as he had represented. A short time since he saw the right hon. Secretary at War in his place; whether he was still in the House or not, he could not tell; if he were, he (Mr. O'Connell) must take that opportunity of congratulating him on his not having yet brought in the Army
 592 l l 593 Littleton 594 l 595 596 597 598
 Mr. Grattan  rose to order, and objected to the line of observation pursued by the hon. and learned Member.
 Mr. O'Connell : The hon. member for Wiltshire had professed that he had always felt the greatest attachment to Ireland. He was obliged to him for it. Ireland had many friends—many such friends—and she put him in mind of a certain fable, in which a poor creature had many friends, and found, in her distress, she was not much the better for it. The hon. Member had called on him to produce his plan. If the hon. Member had been much in his seat in that House, he would not have asked him such a question; but would rather have complained of fatigue at the frequency with which he had propounded his plans. He would, however, tell the hon. Member, that his plan was not to make any distinction between the Protestant and Catholic Churches. His plan was, to cut down the Protestant Church in its temporalities, and to take from it two-thirds of its tithes. Of the three portions, one-third he would give to the Protestant Church, one-third to the Catholic, and the remaining third he would pay in the shape of a quit rent to the public purse. This was the landlord's portion. His plan was comprehensive and comprehensible. The people of Ireland would rejoice in it; and instead of turning out at night with pikes, as they would do under the proposed plan of collecting tithes by way of land-tax, no more would be heard of predial agitation, except from the evil of absenteeism. The plan of giving more land to the Church was the worst of all. One of the greatest evils and miseries of Ireland arose from the great quantity of land in the hands of the Church. The land belonging to the Church, could always be distinguished by the eye from its poverty and bad cultivation.
 Mr. Shell  said, that the general panegyric of the hon. Gentleman on the Government was as uncalled-for as the vituperation which was said to have been used on his side of the House. Now, he would say, that there were some acts of the Administration which did not merit such an eulogy; and, just by way of parenthesis, he would mention a fact (rather inconsistent with the character attributed to it by his hon. friend),—namely, the obtaining a verdict by somewhat curious means on a late occasion, in Dublin. He would say, that he felt no slight curiosity; it would afford him no inconsiderable gratification; if he could discover what were the opinions of the present right hon. Secretary with respect to the Established Church in Ireland. The sentiments of his predecessor were well known. He started in life the acknowledged champion of the Church; he never concealed the fact; he boldly and unflinchingly maintained his chivalry in the cause of the Church. He believed, however, the present right hon. Secretary had had a good deal of experience in Ministerial changes; he had, he believed,
 614 615
 Mr. O'Connell  rose for the purpose of moving for leave to bring in a bill to amend the law relative to distress for rent
 629
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to enable the Legislatures of his Majesty's Colonies in North America to alter and amend the laws relating to their internal postage. He believed that there would be no objection to his Motion, as the object he had in view was to remove
 630
 Colonel Davies  felt great disappointment at the plan proposed by the right hon. Secretary for Ireland. He had the less hesitation in expressing his disappointment and disapprobation of it, as, in some of its parts, it was precisely of the same import as the ill-advised measure of the last Session—that of paying a million from the Exchequer for the relief of the clergy of Ireland. The measure now proposed, instead of allaying the hostility to tithes, would, on the contrary, have a counter-tendency. Instead of the opposition now offered by the peasantry alone, it would excite the hostility of a new class, and array landlord and tenant against the impost. Indeed, it would have the effect of setting all Ireland 'in opposition to it. At present, notwithstanding the assistance afforded to the collection of this tax; al-although the collectors could call to their aid horse, foot, artillery, police, and marines, they found it a tax difficult enough to be enforced; and how much more so would it be when rendered obnoxious to this new class of opponents. It was impossible that a tax of this sort should continue to be drawn from a population of six or seven millions, for the support of a system which they believed to be bad, and the maintenance of a Church which, in their souls, they detested. It had been well put by the hon. and learned member for Dublin, when he asked how should we of this country act, if the case were reversed, and we were placed in the position of the Irish Catholics. Why, instead of passive we should resort to active resistance; and could they expect other than this from Irishmen? Were not they men—having the same feelings as Englishmen? But it seemed, that when they dealt with Ireland, they were to throw aside all considerations of common sense and common feeling, and resort to nothing but passion and prejudice, as if the people of that country were so many serfs who were to be trampled and trodden under foot. When he first heard of the intention
 604
 Lord John Russell  said, he should not have risen, were it not for the appeal made to him by the hon. Member who spoke last. He could assure that hon. Gentleman, that any opinions he before expressed upon the subject of appropriation remained unchanged; and he could easily reconcile them with this proposition of a land-tax in lieu of tithes, and of a permanent redemption of that land-tax afterwards. As the hon. and learned Gentleman well knew, he differed from several of his colleagues in the Administration as to the appropriation of this property; but upon the question on which the hon. and learned member for Dublin had that night declaimed, he believed that there was no difference of opinion in the Ministry. The hon. and learned Gentleman proposed that two-thirds of the present amount of tithes should be utterly abolished, and that the remaining one-third should be applied to the same purposes to which the Grand Jury cess was now applied; or, in other words, that it should be substituted in place of another burthen to which the land was already liable. But this was nothing more than abolishing tithe altogether; it
 621
 Lord William Lennox  was of opinion that the proportion which wages bore to the price of bread was what should be looked to, for if a poor man earned but 6 d d d
 Mr. Charles A. Walker  —Sir, I cannot give my approbation to the measure proposed by the right hon. Secretary. It is as objectionable and as unjust as the compulsory Composition Act, passed in the last Parliament, and which it takes for its basis, and only differs from it in changing the name of the tax which is sought to be substituted for it. The objections to tithes and compositions for tithes in Ireland are fourfold—namely, the appropriation, which, after all, is the leading grievance; the amount levied; the unequal proportions in which that amount burthens the several parishes throughout Ireland, as compared with each other; and lastly the mode of collection. Now, the proposed measure does not remedy one of those objections; it leaves the appropriation as before; it continues the burthen undiminished; it perpetuates the unjust and unequal apportionment of the tax upon the several parishes; and it merely alters the old mode of collection, by substituting one more grievous, and which, for many years to come will still bring the collectors into collision with the occupiers in every part of Ireland which is at present under lease. The Amendment proposed by the hon. member for Meath is, in fact, the memorable resolutions agreed to by the Irish members in the last Parliament who opposed the compulsory Composition Bill. The Amendment acknowledges that tithes are public property, and that their appropriation is at all times open to the disposal of Parliament for public purposes—that the present incumbents have a life interest, and are entitled, in the first instance, out of that fund, to a fair and just compensation. What was meant by a fair and just compensation by no means goes to the extent that the clergy shall continue to receive incomes equal in amount to their former nominal tithes; for the composition unquestionably should be considerably below that nominal amount, as well on account of the increased facility of receiving it clear of expenses, as also its increased security, which would at least double the value of
 626 l l 627
 Mr. Littleton  resumed: Some might have thought, perhaps, that the expenses ought to be defrayed out of the fund which would accrue from the operation of the Bill,—others that they ought to be defrayed by the tithe-owners,—others that they ought to be divided between the tithe-owners and the tithe-payers. All mention, however, of the subject was omitted in the Bill, and therefore the tithe-owners would for the present remain liable. He must again remind the Committee, that he had said nothing whatever about the appropriation of tithes, for that was a subject which, being perfectly distinct from the object of his present Motion, it was not his intention to bring it at all under the consideration of the House. The collection and the appropriation of tithes were perfectly distinct, and, desiring to keep them so, he should not now say anything about the latter; nor had he anything more to add than to impress upon the House, that it was the duty of Parliament to vindicate the existing law, and to realize that property, which, if it did not belong to the Church, at least belonged to the State. The right hon. Gentleman concluded by moving the following Resolution:—"That it is the opinion of this Committee, that composition for Tithes in Ireland ought to be abolished on and after the 1st day of November in the present year, in consideration of an annual Land-tax, to be granted to his Majesty, payable by the persons who would have been liable to such composition for Tithes, and of equal amount; that such Land-tax shall be redeemable; and that, out of the produce, provision be made, in land or money, for the indemnification of the persons entitled to such composition."
 Mr. Littleton  spoke to the following effect:—In rising to call the attention of the Committee, to the subject of which he had given notice, he would first express his regret that a question of so much importance had not fallen to abler hands He regretted it because, the question he was about to call on them to discuss involved principles deeply affecting property at large; and he would venture to say, that there never was submitted to the consideration of Parliament any question on which more entirely depended the future tranquillity of Ireland. He must beg leave before he proceeded further, to caution Members of all parties against supposing that, in discussing that subject they were considering a question which in any manner involved the appropriation and application of Church property in Ireland. That was a perfectly distinct question—it was one which had been made the subject of discussion heretofore, and might be thought, be constitutionally made the subject of discussion hereafter. He implored Gentlemen therefore, in entering on the consideration of the question, in
 573 574 l 575 
 
 From the county Antrim 3 Applications. 
 Armagh 19 
 Cavan 23 
 Fermanagh 4 
 Londonderry 11 
 Monaghan 17 
 Tyrone 14 
 Leitrim 6 
 
 From the county Dublin 54 Applications. 
 Kildare 101 
 Kilkenny 160 
 Donegal 44 
 Down. 30 
 Kerry 70 
 Waterford 98 
 Sligo 37 
 Mayo 61 
 Roscommon 67 
 Meath 63 
 King's County 64 
 Queen's County 52 
 Wexford 198 
 Clare 144 
 Cork 303 
 Limerick 114 
 Tipperary 248 
 Galway 94 l s d l 
 
 County. Parish. Tithe Payers in 1833. Average Amount. 
 £. s. d. 
 Carlow Ballymore 381 0 10 3¾ 
 Cavan Dromg 630 0 9 7½ 
 Cork Ahaina 112 6 7 5½ 
 Buttevant 235 5 13 4½ 
 Down Tullyglish 601 0 8 6½ 
 Dublin Santry 29 6 17 3¾ 
 Finglass 80 6 19 9½ 
 Fermanagh Derryvoole 1,218 0 8 5 
 Galway Kilteckle 26 0 7 0¾ 
 Kerry Knockane 580 0 8 11½ 
 King's Ballikin 260 0 14 9¾ 
 Longford Kilcomash 219 0 13 1 
 Louth Haynstown 31 5 4 0¼ 
 Queen's Kilmanton 168 0 4 7 
 Roscommon Kilyglass 647 0 12 5 
 Tyrone Dysert Creagh 125 0 6 8½ 
 Waterford Kilrosanty 59 6 7 0 
 Westmeath Ballynaslaney 89 0 7 1½ 576 
 
 £ s d 
 In the county Antrim (not more than five persons paid each of them to one individual more than) 6 8 0 
 Armagh 7 5 0 
 Cavan 7 2 8 
 Donegal 8 14 0 
 Down 9 14 10 
 Fermanagh 4 4 0 
 Kilkenny 21 0 0 
 Leitrim 4 10 4 
 Londonderry 4 1 4 
 Mayo 10 0 0 
 Sligo 7 8 3 
 Tyrone 7 1 10½ l l l 577 
 
 County. Parish. Tithe Payers in 1833. Average Amount. 
 £. s. d. 
 Armagh New Town Hamilton 470 0 1 3 
 Lisnadil 1,201 0 10 0½ 
 Carlow Dunleckny 472 0 8 6¼ 
 Kilmore 733 0 3 2¼ 
 Clare Kilaloo 529 0 1 3½ 
 Cork Marshalstown 336 0 0 10½ 
 Kilcona 830 0 1 11 
 Donegal Lower Mobile 317 0 1 3¼ 
 Down Clanduff 1,018 0 4 4¼ 
 Fermanagh Innis M'Saint 1,593 0 5 10½ 
 Kerry Mollahiffe 268 0 1 3¼ 
 Kilkenny Callan 903 0 1 10¾ 
 Limerick Corcomohide 1,120 0 10 2 
 Londonderry Leekpatrick 1,243 0 0 6 
 Longford Tassidy 134 0 19 4 
 Mayo Ballinchally 238 0 1 7¼ 
 Tyrone Pomeroy 528 0 13 0¾ 
 Ardrastan 1,290 0 16 9 d 
 
 County in which the Parish lies. Number of Tithe-payers. Number who pay less than 9 d 
 Carlow 446 289 
 Clare 434 254 
 Cork 1,270 419 
 King's County 505 97 
 Roscommon 243 119 
 Tipperary 331 125 d s s d 578 d l 579 580 581 582 583 l l l 584 585 586 l l l 587 588 l l 589 590
 Mr. Ayshford Sanford  said, it was the duty of the House to adopt some measure for the relief of the agricultural interest, but he protested against any encroachment on the public funds, that being, in his opinion, injurious to the agricultural and commercial classes, and to every person of property. If a portion of the local taxation were removed, it would greatly benefit the agricultural interest, for it was by local taxation that it was most severely oppressed; and if it were more generally thrown upon the country, it would greatly relieve that class. He was confident, that it was not the wish of the agricultural interest to be relieved at the expense of the public creditor.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  also differed in opinion upon this question from the hon. and learned member for Dublin, and thought that the Corn-laws, ought not to be disturbed. So far from giving cheap food to the poor, the repeal of the Corn-laws would, in his opinion, render it more difficult for the labouring poor to get bread at all, as there would be, comparatively speaking, no employment. He would oppose the repeal of the Corn-laws.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  considered that the Members on that side of the House, who had done all in their power to put an end to the tithe system, had great reason to congratulate themselves upon the petition which had been presented by one of the hon. members for the City, and for the clear and lucid statements he had made in presenting it. Those statements, in his opinion, did not differ much from those made by the hon. Baronet who spoke last. He was aware that there were many instances in which clergymen were non-resident, because there was no occasion for a clergyman. He was happy, or he should rather say unhappy enough, to be able to state a case perfectly analogous to that which had been mentioned by the hon. Member. The hon. Member's was an English case, and that which he had to state was an Irish case. He was satisfied that, when he had stated it, and asserted that there were many of a similar nature, the Irish people would receive the sympathy of their English neighbours, who would admit, that they were fully justified in their outcry against tithes. In the parish where he resided, upwards
 568 l
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  had listened with great attention to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, in the hope that, before its close, he might hear something in the proposition which might be beneficial to Ireland. The right hon. Gentleman did not appear well pleased because he had smiled at an assertion which he had made, but he would like to know, notwithstanding, how much money it would require from the English people to carry his plan into effect. He confessed he was greatly astonished to hear the complicated measure which the right hon. Gentleman had proposed. There were to be a land-tax, mortgages, government loans, trust-money, and a variety of other ingredients, which proved the utter hopelessness and absurdity of the plan. The Irish Members were denounced for agitating the country; but he had agitated the county of Cork, perhaps more than any other county was agitated; but, in the midst of all the agitation, he had perfectly preserved the peace. The calendar of that county, during the whole period of agitation, had no crime upon it beyond that of misdemeanour. The right hon. Secretary had stated cases in which litigation had been carried on for arrears of tithe not exceeding ninepence—nay, in one instance, so low as fourpence; and in another a farthing. Was that a state in which Ireland should have been so long left? And was the proposed Bill the measure with which the right hon. Secretary hoped to satisfy that country? He considered it a mere delusion to suppose, that if tithes were taken off, the landlord would increase the rent. The same argument would apply to the Malt-tax, or any other impost upon land; and it might just as well be said, that the landlord would
 600 l l l 601 l l 602
 Mr. Shaw  said, in explanation, that he had never advised opposition to the law. He had never recommended that the law should be evaded. He merely opposed its being passed; and his opposition was grounded on the principles of the Bill itself.
 Mr. Shaw  had only to state, that it was not his intention to follow the hon. and learned member for Dublin through all his statements respecting agitation; and he did not conceive that he had said anything which called for the interruption of the hon. and learned Gentleman. He fully agreed with the right hon. Gentleman, that it would be proper to give full time to consider his proposition in all its bearings and details, before he called upon the House to pass it into a law.
 Mr. Shaw  declared himself favourable to the principle of commutation, because it would have the effect of making a just and legal payment light upon those from whom the demand was due. The hon. and learned member for Dublin would not, however, be satisfied with that; nothing short of annihilation would please him. The hon. Gentleman had given them a history of agitation in Ireland; he saw that agitation existed in Ireland for upwards of seventy-five years on the subject of tithes. There could be no doubt but agitation did exist for that period, not only on account of tithe, but on account of other questions: there were those living who ought to recollect that they were considered the primary cause of all this agitation. There were persons who
 599
 Mr. Grote  presented a Petition from the inhabitants of the parish of All-hallows, Lombard-street, London, expressing their disapprobation of the unjust preferment of the rev. F. Dawson to the Parish by the Dean and Chapter of Canterbury. The petition set forth as the ground of complaint, that the rev. Gentleman was already in the enjoyment of several other benefices, and that he was a non-resident in the parish. The petitioners submitted, that the object of the Established Church was to provide the most effectual means of religious instruction to the people, to obtain which the Legislature had provided ample funds for the support of a respectable, educated, and efficient ministry; and that, while they were compelled by law to furnish those funds, they submitted they had an undoubted right to the services of a resident minister, that they might enjoy that intercourse to which they were entitled, and which was calculated to produce a reciprocal good feeling between the minister and his parishioners, and was so well adapted to contribute to their religious interests. They also submitted that they had long observed the increasing dissatisfaction of the people of England on account of so large a portion of the clergy of the Established Church holding a plurality of livings and residing at a distance from them. They had but little intercourse with their parishioners, and, consequently, could have no sympathy with their wants, and take no personal interest in their religious welfare; they therefore took that opportunity of uniting with their fellow-countrymen in reprobating a system so much at variance with the well-being of the parishioners, and they felt it their duty to express their surprise and regret at the conduct of the Dean and Chapter of Canterbury, that they should have given the rectory of the parish to the rev. Francis Dawson, B. A., a gentleman who before, his appointment to this living was rector of Chiselhurst, rector of Orpington, prebend of Canterbury, and sub-dean of Canterbury, and now rector of Allhallows, Lombard-street; and they could not but
 561
 Mr. Barron  said, that he must object to the resolution proposed by the right hon. Secretary, inasmuch as it held out no prospect of relief to the occupiers of land in Ireland. The right hon. Secretary seemed disposed to think the measure would be final. But it certainly could not be a final measure, and he much regretted that a final measure was not proposed. It must prove a source of great discontent. It would make the landlords coalesce with the occupiers, to get rid entirely of a contribution which he should be glad to see preserved for the purpose of being applied to State purposes. For his part he never did contemplate or desire any reduction in the amount of tithe property. He wished to see it applied beneficially and dealt with by the State for public purposes. The State had just as good a right to dispose of it as he or any other man had to dispose of his private property. In the Irish Parliament tithes had been always treated as public property; and it was going too far to alienate the whole of this fund for the use of the clergy of a minority of the population. He, and those who thought as he did, claimed for the poor and for the Catholic clergy part of that which was originally granted to them. For the space of five or six hundred years, tithes had been always collected with great difficulty in Ireland. The inhabitants of that country never gave a hearty assent to them. They were imposed first by a foreign King, by Henry 2nd, in the year 1172. He was the first who conferred the power of collecting tithes by force of arms; and this circumstance, he had no doubt was the origin of that hatred with which tithes had ever since been regarded in Ireland. They never had been freely paid for a space of even ten years together. The same objection would continue to be felt until this fund was made applicable to useful public purposes. Until this was done the people of Ireland would not be at peace. They would think themselves unjustly treated, and have no confidence in a British Legislature. Every person acquainted with Ireland must feel convinced that a measure of this kind must be mischievous, or at least that it would be productive of no useful object. His main objection to it was, that it would afford no relief to the peasantry; on the contrary, it would only aggravate their difficulties and
 623 l l
 Mr. Henry Grattan  stated, that he felt much embarrassment, as he was sorry he could not agree to the Resolutions. On these grounds he objected,—first, that the
 616 l 617 618 619 620 "Resolved—That, in coming to this Resolution we recognize the right of persons having vested interests, and declare that it is the duty of Parliament to provide for those persons, by making them a just compensation. "Resolved—That we also recognize the liability of property in Ireland to contribute to a fund for supporting and promoting religion and charity, but that such fund may, and ought to be, quite different in the mode of collection, and much lighter in effect than that raised by the system of tithes.
 Mr. Lambert  said, that there was a part of the proposed measure to which he assented, inasmuch as it admitted the principle of a land-tax as a fair mode of collecting this species of property; but he dissented from it in other respects, because he thought that, under existing circumstances, sixteen years' purchase was too large an amount to pay for its redemption. As to the application of tithe, it was a perfectly distinct question from that now before the House, but one, after all, which would be the great bone of contention in Ireland. He strongly objected to the valuation introduced by the Composition Act being made the principle of valuation under this new measure, because the operation of that Act, notwithstanding some wise and excellent measures introduced by the Government, had kept the country in a state of irritation from one end to the other. Whilst he pointed out the defects of that measure, he was bound to express his firm conviction, that there never was a Government more anxious to do good to Ireland than the present; but if the measures introduced by it did not produce the effects which were anticipated from them, he would put it to the House,—he would ask them calmly and dispassionately, as thinking men,—whose fault was it? He would say, that it was not 30 much the fault of the Government as of the difficulties with which they had to contend,—difficulties of long and rooted prejudices,—difficulties which they could not at once overcome; and the paramount difficulty of having to deal with a party which would neither allow the people to be at rest, nor the Government to effect any measure for the amelioration of the country. There would be no tranquility in Ireland until this question was set at rest. He was, on some points, opposed to this
 613
 Mr. Benett , in explanation, said, that
 606
 Mr. Benett  was surprised, that the hon. member for Dublin, who had expressed his disapprobation of the Government proposition, had not had the candour to state in what way he would be willing to commute tithes in Ireland. How did it happen that the hon. and learned Member had not favoured the House with any plan of his own? No man could be more hostile to tithes than he was; for he believed them to be injurious to the agriculture of the country, and the Established Church, and he was therefore happy to see—what he indeed never expected to have witnessed in his time—a just and honest commutation proposed, which could not fail of giving a stimulus to the agriculture of Ireland, and proving an inestimable blessing to both countries. He had no doubt, that in the end the landlords would gain an advantage by the commutation of tithes; but supposing that tithes were to be swept away without commutation, would the hon. and learned member for Dublin think it just to allow the Protestant landlords to gain as much as the Catholic landlords by such a measure? Would he, in fact, draw no difference between the Protestant and Catholic population? He was well acquainted with the ancient history of tithes, and he could not but express his surprise that the Catholic population of Ireland should feel such horror at them, since they were established by a long continued system of fraud on the part of the councils of the Catholic Church. It was, however, sufficient for his purpose that tithes were now legally established; and he never would consent to their abolition except by means of an honest and equitable commutation.
 603
 Mr. Hardy  could not but admit, as a member of the same Church to which the hon. Member belonged, that the Church of England was suffering under acts such as these which the petition detailed. It was no consolation that the inhabitants of Allhallows had been told that the clergyman was a most upright and exemplary man; that was the more tantalizing to them, as they could not obtain his spiritual advice and assistance. If they were aware that he could conduce so much to their spiritual welfare, and that they never saw him, they were the more to be pitied. He did not think that the hon. member for the University of Oxford had fully answered the observations which had fallen from the hon. member for Staffordshire. He understood that the parish in question was fully able to support a clergyman, and it was therefore, an additional hard-
 569
 Mr. Leech  supported the prayer of the petition, and said, he had a statement in his possession, by which he could prove that the average price of wheat was now less than it had been for the last forty years, excepting only two years. Since the year 1815, the average price had been 10 s
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that in consequence of his connexion with Canada, he was anxious to express the great pleasure he felt at the measure now proposed. He was sure that it would give great satisfaction in the Colonies, and he hoped that ere long the Colonial Legislatures would be empowered to exercise an efficient control over other matters connected with their internal government.
 Mr. Hume  expressed his satisfaction at the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman, and hoped that this measure would be followed up with others of a similar nature. He always entertained the opinion that this country should interfere as little as possible in the internal government of the Colonies.
 Mr. Lalor  thought, that the tithes would never be paid again in Ireland but by compulsion. The great error of modern legislation was, that measures were framed and carried through without reference to the feelings of the people. He warned the House against falling into that error upon the present occasion. He hoped the landlords would not be made compulsory collectors of tithes.
 Mr. Bellew : Sir, in the observations which I shall make on the present occasion, I trust that hon. Members will extend to me their indulgence for a few minutes, when they consider the great importance of the question, the peculiar interest that an Irish Member must feel upon the subject, and that there never was a time when the adjustment of the Church question in Ireland was of such vital concern to the entire empire. The right hon. Secretary has suggested to Members the expediency of suspending
 607 608 609 610
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  considered it most essential to the attainment and preservation of peace in Ireland that the Catholic clergy of that country should be
 611 612
 Mr. Shawe  presented a Petition from the Owners and Occupiers of land in the Hundred of Carlford praying for the Abolition of the Duty on Malt.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  said, that hon. Gentlemen seemed to think, that the public faith was pledged to the fundholders, and to them only, but, he contended, that it was pledged also to the land-owners, and that the farmers, whose property was twisted out of their hands by the acts of that House, had stronger claims upon the House than the fundholders, whose paper loans had been paid in standard gold. If some measure were not speedily adopted for the relief of the agricultural and commercial classes, for the effectual relief of the distress and exasperation under which the industrious classes now laboured, he was afraid no property would be safe. He was prepared to prove, that within a very short period (he would not say when, for prophets were cursed for boding ill, and had often been disappointed)—but he was prepared to prove that the national debt would shortly fall under the ruins of its own making. One-half was the reduction which common honesty required.
 Mr. Fitzgerald : I am very sorry to say that I am much disappointed and dissatisfied with the measure proposed this evening by the right hon. Secretary for Ireland; for while all the grievous burthen of tithes is proposed to be continued, the appropriation of them, which after all should be the main point of settlement, comprehending as it does the real object of relief, is not alone withheld, but postponed to an indefinite period. Sir, I repudiate the idea that the tithes should fall into the landlords' pocket, and as far as my knowledge goes, I know none who seek or desire such a benefit; but at the same time I protest against the landlords being thus made liable for an odious impost, or being converted into tithe-proctors for the Irish parsons. As well might this House call on the landlords of Ireland to undertake the collection of any other tax as to compel them,  nolens volens 625
 Mr. Christmas  expressed his gratification at finding that the right hon. Secretary for Ireland had at last put this question upon its right footing. Without entering into the question of its appropriation, he had called tithe the property of the Church. It was the property of the Church, and therefore, the property of the nation. It was foolish to determine on the appropriation of that property without ascertaining whether there was any property to appropriate. The hon. and learned member for Dublin had declared that his plan went to abolish two-thirds of the present amount of tithes. He did not exactly understand how the hon. and learned Member was to do that; but even, when it was done, he had not got rid of the difficulty. If one-third of the present amount of tithes were still to be retained, as the hon. and learned member for Dublin proposed, would the Irish farmer, who now refused to pay any tithes, consent to pay that portion? He thought not. He would, however, go still further, and say that the giving up of tithes altogether would be no benefit to the farmer of Ireland, but only a benefit to his landlord. The people of Ireland were always inclined to jump to conclusions. They seemed to think that systems, the growth of centuries, were to be removed, not by gradual and cautious alterations, but at a blow. This was the idea on which they ever appeared to act; but it would not always attain the desired result; and even the great agitator himself might find at last the fierce democracy he had roused turn round upon him and refuse to submit
 624
 Mr. Cobbett  would only trespass with a few words upon the House. The hon. member for Wilts (Mr. Benett) had said, that Protestants ought not to be blamed for the evils of a system which had originated with Catholics, and that tithes were the invention of fraudulent priests; but it was very odd, when the Reformation made the change, that the honest Protestant Church, notwithstanding its abhorrence of Popery, should still keep the tithes; they got rid of all the errors of the Whore of Babylon—scarlet rags—absolution, extreme unction—all—all but the tithes; and those they preserved with most holy reverence. If ever there was a shameful fraud committed, it was at the Reformation, and, therefore, the less the hon. Member said of fraud the better. The evil consequences of this boasted Reformation were felt even now. The lay impropriate tithes were fruits of the Reformation! Who took those tithes from the Church? Why, the Reformation; and by the complexity of interests which they caused, puzzled this question more than any other circumstance, and created all the present trouble. This was one of the consequences of the Protestant robbery of the Reformation. The Catholics had no lay tithes, and no thought of that monstrous thing which now gave them all the trouble. They might well say, in the language of the Scripture, "Our fathers ate sour grapes, and our teeth are thereby set on edge." Hon. Members, when speaking on this subject did not appear to understand, or seem to understand the state of Ireland, but confounded that country with England, where the people were only called upon to pay the teachers of their own religion. In Ireland, the people were compelled to pay the
 605
 Mr. Finn  said, that the hon. member for Dublin differed on this question from almost every other hon. Member. He was at a loss to know how Ireland, with no manufactures, could be benefited by the repeal of the Corn-laws. On the contrary, in his opinion it would throw nearly all the land out of cultivation. This was the only advantage Ireland derived from its connexion with this country, and in his opinion in repealing the Corn-laws they would be in fact repealing the Union.
 Sir John Wrottesley  said, that this was a very important subject, and deserved the most serious attention of the House. The petitioners were most respectable citizens of London; and it was not from any false
 562 l l l l 563 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 564
 Sir Robert Inglis  did not expect that the hon. Baronet would have taken so extensive a range in his observations upon the subjects of pluralities and non-residence, which appeared to him to be so mischievous to the Church Establishment of this country. The hon. Baronet, was come quite prepared for a discussion. He had issued fresh from the Committee upon Army and Navy appointments, and with papers upon curates' salaries, while the House had received no communication as to the subject-matter to be discussed. The advantage, therefore on the part of the hon. Baronet, and also of the hon. member for the City of London, was, on this occasion, very great. He trusted, however, that the House would indulge him for a few moments while he made one or two observations on the petition, and, by way of reply, to some of the remarks which had fallen from the hon. Baronet, on the general question of pluralities. He must, in the first place, request the House to suspend forming any opinion upon that general question until they had had an opportunity of becoming acquainted with the facts respecting Church income, which have been collected by the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, who, with the exception of one hundred parishes, had obtained information from every parish in the kingdom. He did not complain of the hon. Baronet for taking that which he considered a good opportunity for a short discussion on the subject of Church Reform; and he was bound to say, that nothing could be more temperate than the tone of his speech. It was due, also, to the hon. member for the City of London to acknowledge the calm and temperate manner in which he had spoken on this occasion; for it was a question upon which persons, not of his temper or dis-
 565 pro salute animœ 566 Grote 567
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, he had been silent hitherto, not because he did not entertain a just sense of the importance of the question, but from knowing that he should have other opportunities of speaking upon it. The origin of tithes, and their rights of appropriation, had been often and ably discussed, so that very little that was new could now be said upon the subject. His object in rising was not to repeat what had been said, but rather to supply what was unsaid. He regretted much that the right hon. Gentleman who moved the Resolution, did not, in the course of his observations, advert at all to the question of appropriation. He lamented that he did not advert to it for the purpose of declaring explicitly, and at once, that he would never assent to such a principle as had been advocated by some of the Gentlemen from Ireland. As his right hon. friend proposed the Resolution in such a way as did not call upon the House to prejudge the question, he would not oppose it. It seemed to him, as he understood it, that the effect of the intended measure would be to reduce the property of every incumbent, not from 50 l l l l l
 Sir Robert Peel  suggested that the right hon. Gentleman had not informed the House from whom the expenses of law proceedings were to come.
 Mr. Pryme  said, this prosecution was clearly not a prosecution instituted by the Government; they had nothing more to do with it than with any ordinary trial for a felony that had been tried in the county of Sussex at the last assizes. But, whoever were the prosecutors, he must say—knowing nothing of the case but what he had heard in that House, and hearing the publication read by the hon. Member who had presented the petition (for he had never read the libel, or the report of the trial)—but he must say, he was surprised that such a sentence could be inflicted upon any individual; that in such a case it should be imprisonment in any gaol, and much more in such a distant gaol. They knew that Government had nothing to do with the prosecution, but some hon. Gentlemen were so anxious to throw blame upon Government, that they seized every opportunity of doing it; and a discussion had been raised upon a question with which they had nothing to do, and he deprecated all discussions upon any subject that was not regularly before the House, as the parties concerned could not be expected to be present. He thought the hon. member for Boston would have done better to have postponed his observations on the case of Mr. Barrett; there were two notices of motions on the same question. He would not, therefore, anticipate that question, which would be brought forward in a distinct Motion by the hon.
 646
 Captain Curteis  said, he was one of the Magistrates alluded to in the petition, and he felt it his duty to state, that a more honourable man than the prosecutor could not exist. He (Captain Curteis), with several other Magistrates, did not think it necessary to go on with this prosecution; but the prosecutor thought it absolutely necessary that it should be carried on, and conceived it to be his duty to file the bill against the petitioner. He hoped the hon. member for Brighton would move an Address to the Crown, and he would give it his support.
 The Marquess of Chandos  rose to call the attention of the House to a question of great importance. He would, first of all move, "That that part of his Majesty's Speech, which related to Agricultural Distress, be read." The clerk accordingly read the following passage:—I have to lament the continuance of distress amongst the proprietors and occupiers of land, though, in other respects, the state of the country, both as regards its internal tranquillity, and its commerce and manufactures, affords the most encouraging prospect of progressive improvement'. The noble Marquess continued: In calling upon the House to take the subject of agricultural distress into its consideration, he was sure that the question was not inferior in importance to any that had been for a long time, or could be, submitted to its consideration. While he deeply felt the general embarrassment that pervaded the whole agricultural interest, and was most anxious to impress on the House the policy and the justice of applying an effective remedy, he was at the same time sensible of his own inability to deal with the subject as its great importance required. But, however inadequate his capabilities were to the execution of the duty that he had taken upon himself, he felt a sincere conviction that the House would go along with him in the persuasion that the distress was deep and general, and called at once for the saving hand of Parliament. From the facts which he would state—and they possessed a melancholy reality—he
 650 651 652 s s s s 653 s 654 d d d d 655 d d s d s d s s s s l 656 l s l l l l l l 657 s l l s l l Lord Althorp said, across the Table, that the Malt tax was not repealed l l 658 l l 659
 Mr. Wolryche Whitmore  believed, that agricultural distress was very great; but he did not think that the measure proposed by the noble Mover was calculated to afford relief, or to effect the objects which he had in view. He agreed with his noble friend (Lord Althorp), and was convinced that his plan would do more to improve the agricultural interests, because it would take off the burthens that immediately and locally affected them. He had heard with great satisfaction that the noble Lord contemplated a measure of relief with respect to the Poor-laws. No measure that could come under the consideration of that House was entitled to more attention. So deeply did he feel it, that he had no hesitation in saying, that, if some measure of the sort were not speedily introduced, nothing like prosperity could return amongst the agriculturists. With reference to the particular question before the House, he believed that great benefits would arise to the agriculturist by the commutation of tithes. The hon. member for Essex had said that, if, under the commutation, the same sum were taken from the agriculturists that was taken now, they could not, by any possibility, find any relief. This he denied. He totally differed from the hon. member for North Essex (Mr. Baring). The settlement of the question of tithes alone would encourage the application of capital to the cultivation of land. The tithes, in this respect especially, was one of the greatest evils under which the landed interests laboured. He, for one, sincerely trusted that Ministers would redeem the pledge they had given to the House, and that they would introduce some measure with respect to the Poor-laws.
 Mr. Baring  said, that, with respect to what had been said relative to the price of wool, and the alterations which had taken place in that trade, it was not his intention to enter into that question. Indeed he thought they were altogether irregular in having deviated from the Motion which the noble Marquess had brought under the consideration of the House. Surely they were not, upon the discussion of that Motion, to turn aside and follow the hon. member for Wolverhampton in his dissertation respecting the Corn-laws! That was a question which was to come before the House in a separate form. The real fact for the consideration
 665 666 667 s s d s 668
 Colonel Evans  said, the repeal of the House-duty had his cordial support, for it was monstrous that the Metropolis alone had to pay fully the one-third of it. With respect to the poor-rates, he would observe, that the population of the Metropolis and of Yorkshire were nearly equal: The rental of the Metropolis was, in 1814, 5,700,000 l l 673 l l
 Mr. Cayley  said, that his hon. friend, the member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Clay), had observed, that if a remission of the House-tax would not relieve the agriculturists, it was, because they had been improperly exempted from its operation; but if that hon. Gentleman would let him (Mr. Cayley) his house in London for the same rent that a house in the country of equal accommodation would fetch, then he would willingly pay the tax upon it. The tax upon a well-situated house in the Metropolis, being rated according to its value in the market, was as large or larger than the entire rent of a house of equal size in the country. Each should be taxed in the ratio of the rent; or in proportion to their marketable value. The noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) said, that he did not anticipate any great relief to the land from any remission of direct public taxation. He agreed with the noble Lord; but was that a reason for believing that agriculture was not in distress? The main cause of the complaint of the agriculturists was, that they had invested an enormous amount of capital in land on the faith of a Parliamentary sanction of a certain rate of prices; the maintenance of that rate of prices could alone return to them the common rate of interest for the money they had sunk; and Parliament had deprived them of those prices, and with that had deprived them of their property.
 674 l l l l s d s 675 d s 676 l l s d s d 677 678 l l s s s s 679
 Mr. Maxwell  said, he would vote for a repeal of the Malt-tax, whenever that question came before the House. In the mean time he strongly recommended his Majesty's Ministers to impose a tax upon absentees. The present system was a premium upon absenteeism, because a man by going out of the country escaped from those taxes which he was obliged to pay if he remained in it.
 Mr. O'Connell  meant to vote for the Motion of the noble Marquess, and he wished to state as briefly as he could his reasons for doing so. He would vote for the repeal of the Malt-tax, and of every other tax which bore upon agriculture, because he knew that the Chancellor of the Exchequer never gave up a tax until he was compelled, and the more the reduction of taxation was pressed upon him, the more benefit the country was likely to derive. Another reason for his supporting this proposition was, that if there were a majority in favour of it, there would then be another pressure upon the Chancellor of the Exchequer, by the hon. member for Worcester, on behalf of the shipping interest. The noble Lord very candidly admitted that he yielded to these pressures. He talked of the unpopularity of a tax, which unpopularity meant nothing more than the extent to which its reduction was pressed upon him by the people. He appealed to the House whether, in this wisest of all countries, we had not been guilty of one of the greatest possible blunders with respect to the debt. The country owed 1000,000,000 l l l s 685 686
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  could not deny the existence of agricultural distress, The Committee of last Session proved it; and his Majesty's speech at the opening of the present Session declared it. If, therefore, the Resolution proposed by the noble Marquess went only to confirm that report, and that declaration, he should not feel any strong objection to it. But, after what had passed that night, he thought the House ought to look a little further into the practical effect of the noble Marquess's motion. He did not pretend to impute to the supporters of the motion generally the motives by which the hon. and learned member for Dublin had declared he was actuated. He entertained much too great a respect for most of
 687 l l 688
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he had not attributed the dereliction of duty in the case alluded to to Mr. Baron Smith, but to another Judge.
 Mr. O'Connell  repeated, that he had not and could not have alluded to Mr. Baron Smith, for he had said, that the Judge who had been guilty of the conduct which he had described, had remained on the bench for two years afterwards.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  could not, as he had been so directly alluded to, avoid saying a very few words; and he should do so without partaking in any degree of heat or excitement. In some of the concluding remarks of the hon. Baronet he fully agreed; and it was impossible for him to dissent from the proposition, that it was essential to the best interests of the country, to secure not only the independence of the Judges, but the most perfect purity and propriety in the administration of justice. In looking, then, at a subject of this magnitude, the House, he was sure.
 708 709 710 711
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that no man was more disposed than he was to discuss the question before the House with perfect coolness and tranquillity of temper. He might, perhaps, lose in point of figure, but in the observations he had to offer he was sure he could not lose by contrast with the concluding part of the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman, the member for the University of Dublin. He felt he had a painful task to perform; but he would endeavour to discharge the duty he had undertaken, notwithstanding the abuse and personalities by which he had been assailed. It was not his intention to occupy the time of the House in defending himself against these personal attacks. He had been accustomed to these attacks, and so far from their producing any effect upon him, he now gave to every hon. Member the completest latitude for personal abuse. He was not there to defend himself, but to state to the House the reasons why they should not sanction the Motion of the hon. Baronet, and, in doing so, he would endeavour to be as brief as possible. In bringing the charge, he had been actuated by no personal or political feeling; he had undertaken it solely on public grounds; and now he called on the House to consider the case as it really stood. On Thursday, they came to a solemn determination, expressed by a deliberate vote of that House, to do—what? Why to inquire into certain charges preferred against a Judge in Ireland; and what were they now called upon to do? They were called upon to rescind the determination which they came to on a former night, after the most grave and deliberate consideration. What, he asked, would be thought of a grave deliberative assembly, who came to a solemn decision on Thursday, and in a week afterwards rescinded that resolution? He hoped that they would not stultify themselves by sanctioning such a proceeding. Did the House recollect a case which occurred in the last Session, when, upon a question involving the most serious consequences, when the revenue of the country was at stake, they had, upon a Motion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer respecting the Malt-tax, rescinded the vote which they had passed but four days before? Were they not taunted in every shape and form?—and did they hear the end of it for months afterwards? If,
 730 731 732 733 hon. Member: 734 nisi prius A laugh 735 736 737 738
 Mr. O'Connell  denied having used these words.
 Mr. Halcombe  next addressed the House, but the shouts of discordant noises which were kept up without intermission whilst he was speaking, rendered him totally inaudible.
 Colonel Conolly  said, that he should not presume, at that late hour, to trespass upon the attention of the House, notwithstanding the importance of the question then under discussion, were it not that, having the honour of an intimate acquaintance with Baron Smith, he wished to bear his testimony in favour of the worth, the talent, and the high character of that venerable and estimable person. It was unnecessary for him (Colonol Conolly) to superadd anything to the eloquent and convincing statement made by his hon. friend, the member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Shaw), and to which the House had paid the tribute of its applause; but he could not help remarking that the hon. and learned Gentleman, the member for Dublin, had not attempted, in the course of his speech, to reply to a single argument adduced by his hon. and learned friend. The hon. and learned Gentleman had gone wide of the mark, was evidently writhing under the castigation he had received, and, as was usual with him, who, in fact, could not open his lips but when he indulged in vituperation and scurrility; and charged the learned Judge with being the cause of that party malignity which all his efforts were directed to assuage. [ Several Members rose to Order 739 740
 Lord William Lennox  said, he did not think it was proper to enter into a discussion on the private libels alluded to by the hon. member for Shoreham; they were not before the House; but the question was, whether, in the present instance, the petitioner's punishment did not exceed the offence for which he was now suffering
 637 The Brighton Guardian 638
 Major Beauclerk  said, as the hon. member for Boston (Mr. Wilks) had declared that the words of the Act were imperative on the Commissioners, they it was clear were not to blame. No person could feel more indignant than himself at the conduct they had pursued; yet he thought it would only be an act of justice to wait until some one of the Ministers was present to defend their conduct. But to return to the question brought forward respecting the editor of the  Brighton Guardian Chronicle Times 644
 Mr. O'Dwyer  thought, with his hon. friend below him, that this was a most disgraceful clause. The distributor of stamps could not be aware of the clause; but the truth was, the distributor of stamps acted under the instructions of Government; and it was too true, that it had been reserved for a Government professing to uphold liberty to enforce this abominable Act. His hon. friend said, the Commissioners of Stamps were obliged to enforce the law. He (Mr. O'Dwyer) had read the Statute; and he saw no penalty attached to the Commissioners for not enforcing the law. It was, therefore, quite within their power to continue to issue stamps to Mr. Barrett, and no penalty would have been incurred by them. But there was another part of the transaction to which he begged leave to call the attention of the House. Mr. Barrett could not have been treated in this way, but he was found guilty of pub-
 643
 Mr. Tower  could not repress his surprise at the speech of the hon. member for Bridgenorth. Most persons admitted, that all those burthens, direct and indirect, which fall exclusively on agriculture, should be reduced before the Corn-laws were altered; it was reserved for the hon. member for Bridgenorth, who had given notice of a Motion to effect an alteration in the Corn-laws, to contend that they ought to remove the protection and continue these burthens. His noble friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated that, in his financial arrangements, he was consulting the best mode of effecting the prosperity of all classes. He begged, however, to ask the noble Lord, how it came to pass, if whatever promoted the prosperity of the manufacturers was sure to increase the wealth of the agriculturists, that the price of corn, and, indeed, of all other articles of agricultural produce (wool only excepted), had, for many months past materially fallen? The average price of wheat was only 48 s
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  was happy the noble Lord had preceded him; he had done justice to the question; and his (Mr. O'Connor's) feelings on the subject coincided with those of the noble Lord. He agreed with the hon. member for Shoreham in reprobating the conduct of Ministers, in not appearing to listen to the present petition; but he must reprobate the conduct of the hon. Member himself, in alluding to the former convictions. The hon. Member should have proved, that Mr. Cohen benefited by the former convictions; for the hon. Member had proved that, though he (Mr. Cohen) had been twice convicted of libel, yet when he published the present paragraph, he did not know he was committing a breach of the law. The noble Lord had told them, that notwithstanding; all the
 639 Burrell
 Mr. Shaw , in rising to reply to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, had to intreat that indulgence which he at all times required when he addressed the House, but of which he never stood so entirely in need as on that occasion. The question, for the second time brought before the House, was, perhaps, the most important which the House was ever called on to decide; and although he thought the recent Reform introduced into the House was too sudden and too violent, and, on that account, justly obnoxious to some prejudice in the minds of those who composed it, still he was persuaded, that, in a case involving the independence of the judicial bench, as well as the public reputation, the personal character, and the private feelings of an individual Judge, an assembly of English Gentlemen would calmly and impartially hear, and well consider all the facts and circumstances before they proceeded to decide upon them. And if he were asked why, for the second time, bring forward the case of Baron Smith, when, as the right hon. Gentleman said, there was no new matter to rely upon, by which to change its character, he answered, that he had not only new matter to offer, which he had collected since the first decision, but further to allege, that the case then was considered under the most peculiar disadvantages to the learned Judge, and, as regarded himself, under circumstances of the most peculiar embarrassment; for that learned Judge had no notice of the charge to be brought against him in the Motion of the hon. and learned member for Dublin; nor had he (Mr. Shaw) any conception of the reliance that would be placed on the Returns upon which the hon. and learned Gentleman grounded that Motion—they were moved for, and afterwards abandoned by, the hon. and learned member for Monaghan last year. He had not looked into them since the last Session of Parliament, until he sent for them when they were referred to in the Debate. The House would, he was sure, recollect that there were other circumstances calculated to excite his feelings, and perhaps warp his judgment. He was led to expect that he should have had to
 712 713 primâ facie 714 nisi prius nisi prius 715 716 717 718 Hinc illœ lackrijmœ! 719 720 721 722 723 724 salus populi, suprema lex." salus populi, suprema lex" Eos, qui otium perturbant reddam otiosos.' 725 qui otium perturbat," eum reddam otiosum."
 Mr. Shaw  said, he read them from a note he had made at the moment; that he was borne out by the recollection of many hon. Members around him; and that all he could say, was, if the hon. and learned Gentleman had not spoken the words himself, some other person had spoken them out of his mouth. He would refer upon that point to an authority which was not wholly inapplicable:—In the year 1827, there had been much interest excited in Dublin by an action which was brought against a Roman Catholic clergyman, the reverend Mr. Maguire; and shortly after it had terminated he found it reported in the  Eveniny Post Evening Post Evening Post 726 727 728 729
 Mr. Robinson  seconded the Motion. The course proposed by the hon. Baronet was the only one which the House could adopt consistently with its own dignity, and with the respect due to the Bench.
 Mr. Robinson  could not help remarking upon some arguments which had been used in the course of the Debate. It was assumed that the agricultural interests, without any exception, were in a state of unmitigated distress, and that commerce and manufactures were in a state of progressive improvement. If this were, indeed, the case, the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, might well be asked why he gave relief exclusively to that class which was in a prosperous condition. But he must beg leave to contradict the assumption that, because the King's Speech made such a statement, therefore it must necessarily be true. He certainly admitted that distress did prevail
 681 l l l l 682
 Mr. Wilbraham  said, that he entirely subscribed to the correctness of the statement made by the noble Marquess respecting the distress existing among the agricultural classes, but he could not agree with him as to the remedy for that distress, From what did it arise? Chiefly from the pressure of poor-rates and tithes; for, in his opinion, the Government taxes had so little connexion, with it, that they ought not to be included in the calculation. He remembered, that the Duke of Wellington, when in office, laid on the Table of the House of Peers a document very ingeniously, but, at the same time, very fairly drawn up, demonstrating that the distress under which the agricultural interest was suffering was in no way attributable to the pressure of the Government taxes. If there was any truth in the noble Duke's statement at that time, it must carry with it greater force at the present moment, when the agricultural classes had been relieved from many of the imposts which then pressed on them. He should object to the repeal of the Malt-tax, on the ground that it would give partial and not general relief to the country.
 Mr. Goring  said, that he was a member of the Arundel bench, and if any persons were libelled at all in the paragraph, it was the members of that bench, and not one of them had thought it right that any prosecution should be instituted. They thought it would be giving a notice and importance to this paragraph which it did not merit, and as a proof of the very little mischief it had done, he begged to say, that there was not one fire in the whole Arundel district after the publication appeared, and there had not been to this time, and therefore he did not consider the paragraph worthy of notice.
 Mr. Lambert  felt himself compelled to vote for the original Motion. He was certainly much inclined to give every possible relief to the agricultural classes; but were he to support the Amendment, he should in effect be voting for a repeal of the Malt-tax, which he could not do. The noble Marquess assumed that the distress which had fallen on the landed interest was owing to the pressure of taxation. This he denied. In his opinion it was attributable to the alteration which had taken place in the currency. Certainly there did exist great distress amongst the agricultural classes, particularly in Ireland. He had asked a very intelligent farmer in his district, why he had forsaken his plough and taken to agitation? and
 680
 Mr. Wigney , on presenting the Petition of Mr. Levy Emanuel Cohen, Editor of  The Brighton Guardian
 Mr. Benett  was of opinion, that the repeal of a part of the Malt-tax would, for every interest in the community, have been more desirable than the repeal of the House-duty. If the Malt-tax had been (in part even) repealed, it would have prevented the labourers from going to beer-shops, and thereby do good to them and their employers.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, this was not a matter connected at first with the Government, it was true; the Government did not commence the prosecution, and as far as that was concerned, the Government had nothing to do with it; but the Government possessed a discretionary power of keeping the parties referred to in gaol; and when an application had been made to them, as it appeared there had been in this case, he thought their conduct came very properly under the cognizance of the House. The Government had exercised that discretionary power, and it seemed they did not mean to release the petitioner, and, therefore, that House ought to act in the matter. From the beginning to the end of this transaction, he must call it a most disgraceful one. It was disgraceful to the prosecutors who instituted it—it was disgraceful to the Grand Jury who returned the bill—it was disgraceful to the jury who convicted the petitioner—it was disgraceful to the magistrates of Sussex—and he would say, it was disgraceful to the Judge on the bench. He would not use guarded language, because this was not a case in which guarded language ought to be used. They had come there to express their opinions freely, and he, for one, would do so. This unfortunate editor had inserted in his paper a paragraph relative to incendiary fires. He stated a fact, and a fact simply—namely, that in certain districts in Sussex, incendiary fires prevailed, and that in others, fires did not prevail, and that, in some districts, the
 647 gravamen Brighton Guardian 648 Brighton Guardian; Brighton Guardian
 Mr. Wilks  agreed in the opinions of the hon. member for Tipperary. He said, he felt a deep regret and deep displeasure at the proceeding to which the hon. member had alluded the moment he beheld the announcement, but, in the absence of the Members of his Majesty's Government he thought it was only due to them to state, that on reference to the Act it did appear, that no discretion was left to the Commissioners of Stamps, but under the provisions of that Act they were particularly ordered, that in case of the conviction of any publisher—The words of the Act were—" That if any printer, or publisher, or proprietor of a newspaper in Ireland shall be, by a due course of law, outlawed for any offence, or convicted of publishing any seditious libel, the said Commissioners of Stamps are hereby prohibited to send or deliver to or for the use of any such printer, &c, any stamped paper for the printing of news." Undoubtedly the words
 642 The Pilot Brighton Guardian.
 Mr. Fryer  called upon the House to consider the state of the manufacturers. Let them look at the miners who worked undergound, at the blacksmiths and other trades, whose wasted figures and tattered habiliments gave but too true a picture of the distress and privation under which they were suffering. He had a right, then, to call upon the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) to consider the state of those poor sufferers. He had a right, too, to expect the support and co-operation of the noble Marquess in any measure which might be proposed for their relief. He asked it not of the noble Marquess as a boon or favour; he called for it as an act of justice to these wretched sufferers. Let the House remove the monopoly upon the people's food. This was not only the means by which relief could be extended to the poor manufacturer, but it was also the only real course by which the farmer could be rendered independent and trade made to flourish. The fact was, that the agricultural and manufacturing interests were joined, and must stand or fall together.
 Mr. Sheil  said, there seemed to be but one opinion in the House about the absence of all the responsible members of the Government on the present occasion. There was an agreement made—or at least there was an understanding come to, between the Government and the Members of that House, at the commencement of the Session, that some member of his Majesty's Government should be present to listen to petitions. He thought it would be better that the morning sittings should not be held at all if the members of the Government could not be present. Petitions were presented for two purposes—for the purpose of presenting statements of grievances—facts—and for obtaining an answer from the Government to those facts in each particular case. If the absence of the noble Lord (Althorp) arose from his attendance in
 640 Pilot 641 The Pilot
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  observed, that the noble Marquess called upon the House, by his Amendment, to express its conviction that the agricultural part of the community ought to be entitled to any reduction which could be made in the shape of taxation. Everything which had taken place, from the moment his Majesty pronounced his Speech, to the Debate on this question, showed the justice of that proposition. It appeared that there was a surplus revenue which might be applicable to the reduction of taxation, and it also appeared that the manufacturing interest was in prosperity, and that all the relief which had yet been given by a reduction of taxation, had been given to the trading and commercial interest. No answer had been made to the statement of the noble Marquess, that no relief had been given to the agricultural interest.
 Mr. Cartwright  did not rise to enter into a discussion of the question of agricultural distress. He wished to remind the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) that he had stated at a county meeting, held at Northampton, that he would not support a Motion for the repeal of the Malt-tax, but he should leave that to the Ministers. The noble Lord, however, had learned a good deal since he had been Chancellor of the Exchequer, and had improved himself upon the subject. He (Mr. Cartwright) had seen the heads of what he supposed was to be expected from the Board of Commissioners on the Poor-laws, and he was not sanguine as to the result. The agriculturists were under an obligation to the noble Marquess for treating the question in the way in which he had; and he would give the Amendment of the noble Marquess his hearty concurrence.
 Mr. Cobbett  wholly differed from the noble Lord in the principles he had laid down on this subject; and he would explain that to him directly; he would, however, in the first place, address himself to what the hon. Member had asserted, that agricultural distress was in no way attributable to Parliamentary taxation, but wholly to tithes and poor-rates. Indeed! he would just ask the hon. Member at what time it was that tithes were first instituted? Was it five years ago, or ten years ago, or was it not rather earlier? The hon. Member must remember the good times for agriculturists; he must remember the cattle shows at Holkham, and the other specimens of the arrogance of the agricul-
 669 l l No, no a laugh 670 s d s d 671
 Sir Charles Burrell  said, that until the case was fairly brought before the House, it was impossible for him, and it was impossible for the House, to judge of it; for, in the absence of Ministers, they had no information on which they could rest. At the same time, in stating that the individual in question had been convicted of libels in other cases, he submitted, that it was more incumbent for them to wait till a full and efficient answer could be had to the complaints of the petitioner. He only wanted to add, that one hon. Member who had stated the case, had made a mistake with regard to saying, that the petitioner was tried by magistrates. He believed no magistrate was on that jury. Some of the magistrates were called by the Sheriff on the Grand Jury, and sent the libel to be tried, but not a single magistrate tried the petitioner. It would be doing a great injustice to the magistrates to send that statement forth to the world.
 Sir Charles Burrell  said, he could not help expressing his surprise and regret, after the statement of the hon. member for Brighton, of his having given notice of his intention to present this petition, that not one member of the Government was present to take notice of the complaints of the petitioner. He could only attribute it to neglect, or some extraordinary pressure of business, which prevented their attendance, for this petition was one of some importance, and should have been answered by a proper Minister of the Crown. But, not seeing either of the members for the county of Sussex in their places, and being himself one of that Bench of Magistrates at Horsham, to whom the libel referred, he felt it his
 636
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  seconded the Motion of his noble friend; and, in doing so, said he felt that he should ill discharge his duty to the country and to himself if he hesitated one moment in doing so; agreeing, as he did, most cordially in the sentiments which had been expressed by his noble friend. That noble Lord had entered at large into the discussion, and had dwelt upon topics which it was not his intention to discuss. He was satisfied to confine himself to a few remarks on the general proposition contained in the Resolution. The noble Lord called upon the House, by that Resolution, to state that, in any reduction of the burthens of the
 660
 Sir Edward Knatchbull : certainly it was his impression at the time, and he believed many other Gentlemen supposed as he did, that Baron Smith was the Judge to whom the hon. and learned member for Dublin referred, as having been guilty of laches. In this he knew the testimony of many hon. Gentlemen would bear him out. It now appeared, however, that that case did not refer to Baron Smith. But that admission was in itself a powerful argument in proof of the injustice of the line of proceeding that had been adopted towards that learned Judge. The learned Gentleman brought a charge against Baron Smith, and, in doing so, he referred to a case of neglect of duty on the part of another Judge in Ireland, far greater than any imputed to the learned Baron; and yet no complaint had ever been made to Parliament of the conduct of that Judge. He did not want to know his name—he supposed, indeed, that the case was in reality one that did not call for investigation; and he only referred to it to show what a peculiar measure of injustice had been visited on the head of Baron Smith. He recollected that, in the outset of his speech, the hon. and learned Gentleman had said, that the charge which he was about to prefer against Baron Smith, was generally applicable to the Judges in Ireland. How did it happen, then, that Baron Smith should be selected as the first victim for the hon. and learned Gentleman's vengeance? How did it happen that the hon. and learned Gentleman, who had himself so often sounded the praises of that learned Judge, who had so often spoken in the highest terms of approbation of his impartial and excellent conduct, should thus turn round upon him, and in his old age, endeavour to excite the public odium against him? If there was any point in the character of that learned Judge that stood out more distinguished than the rest, it was this, that he always supported those he imagined to be op-
 702 703 704 705 706 707
 Sir Edward Knatchbull ; What! did the hon. and learned Member mean to deny that he attributed the neglect in the bankruptcy case of which he had complained to Baron Smith? The hon. and learned Member had stated, that he was in Court when a certain trial had taken place, and that he had made observations to the Jury, to show that the Judge was unfit to be on the bench—so unfit, that the hon. and learned Member told the Jury, that if the Judge interfered at all
 701
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  having; moved, "That the Resolution adopted by the House on the 13th of February be read, relative to Baron Smith," and it having been read, the hon. Baronet proceeded to say, that he was well persuaded, that the House would feel it would be infinitely the more agreeable course, as he apprehended it undoubtedly would be the more convenient
 696 697 698 699 700
 Sir Henry Willoughby  said, that, although the example had been set him, he should not enter into the question either
 683 684
 Sir George Phillips  said, that while he fully admitted the right of the agriculturists to participate in whatever relief could be afforded to the country, he thought the means proposed by his noble friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, would be more effectual for that purpose than those suggested by the noble Marquess. With respect to the repeal of the Malt-tax, he maintained that that would be no relief to the farmers generally; because, as the noble Lord stated, it was amongst the farmers of heavy lands, on which barley was not grown, that the greatest distress prevailed. The only other remedy proposed in the course of the discussion, was that suggested by the hon. member for Wexford—namely, a return to paper money. Now he (Sir George Phillips) thought that he greatest relief would be afforded by a better administration of the Poor-laws. He was convinced that the agriculturists themselves would feel a measure for the Amendment of those Laws, to be the greatest concession that could be made to them, for the great outcry amongst the farmers was directed against the poor-rates. That measure and the commutation of tithes could not fail to afford the most important relief. He concurred with his noble friend that relief could not be afforded to one class without the other interests feeling the benefit of it; and he was sure that the reduction of taxes which had taken place, and which was to take place, would be attended with the greatest possible benefit to all parties.
 Sir Robert Peel  concurred in all the sentiments expressed by the right hon. Gentleman at the conclusion of his speech. Nothing could be more painful than to be compelled to vote on the same side with those who avowed opinions that were in direct opposition to every principle of honour and national faith. He should be ashamed of himself, however, if he let a consideration of that nature deter him from the course which a sense of public duty required him to pursue. He rejoiced to hear the hon. and learned member for Dublin avow his political creed, because when they came, in a few days hence, to the consideration of the Repeal of the Union, they would bear in mind under what auspices, and with what views that measure was proposed. "O all you," exclaimed the right hon. Baronet "who have interest in the funds in Ireland—O all you Protestants who hold lands in Ireland, learn, by this timely declaration, what your fate will be when you shall have been delivered up to the tender mercies of a popular assembly, returned by the influence and adopting the principles of this man, who makes a jest of national honour, and talks of the  Cant 690 691 692 l Johnson's Dictionary. 693 694
 Sir Robert Peel  was convinced, that the House—this being the second night's Debate upon the merits of this subject—must be most anxious to bring the discussion to a close. Before he made any other observations, he would promise, and rigidly adhere to the promise, as he never wished to force himself upon the attention of a reluctant audience, if the House would lend him their attention for a very: short time, to introduce no irrelevant topic, and to steer clear of all considerations of a merely personal or party nature. He considered that the Motion implied a great compliment to the House. It implied a confidence in their integrity and; moral courage, thus to give them the opportunity of revising what they had once determined; and, if they felt that determination to be wrong, to reverse it. Numerous appeals had been made to the House to-night; appeals to false pride; appeals to the sense of shame, and to the fear of ridicule. He knew the force of those appeals, and the obstacles they interposed in the way of retracing the path on which they had once entered; but, he felt confident, if the House should be convinced, that they were placed in a critical and embarrassing situation—if they had reason to believe that the precedent they were about to establish was pregnant with future danger—that the step which they had taken involved an act of injustice
 741 742 primâ facie primâ facie 743 744 imprimatur? formulœ 745 746 Lenit albescens animos capillus Litium et rixæ cupidos protervæ. Non ego hoc ferrem callidus juventâ, Consule Planco. 747 speciosa nomina 748 ex-officio ex-officio ex-parte 749 750
 Mr. Clay  agreed with the abstract proposition, that the best relief to a community was a relief from taxation. He considered the repeal of the House-duty to be beneficial to the agricultural, as well as the manufacturing, or commercial in-
 672 
 
 In 1820 the number of bushels of malt was 27,889,310 
 In 1853 40,164,783
 Lord Althorp  said, that he agreed in what had fallen from the noble Lord, and the hon. Baronet, in relation to the distress which pervaded the agricultural classes, for he was perfectly well aware that they were in a state of great distress. Certainly there was no part of the speech of the noble Lord in which he more cordially concurred
 661 662 d s d Chandos 663 664
 Lord Althorp  agreed with the right hon. Baronet, that if, on mature consideration, it should appear that it was not right to persevere in the course already adopted, the House was at full liberty to retrace its steps; but he must, at the same time, say, that it was decided by the House of Commons, on a former evening, that the conduct of this Judge ought to be inquired into, and that decision ought not to be changed without deliberation. With regard to the first accusation, he admitted, that the neglect of duty attributed to Baron Smith in coming into Court late, and sitting late, had been lessened, if not explained away, by the explanation of the hon. and learned member for the University of Dublin. But he thought that the statements which had been made, and allowed to remain uncontradicted,
 751 752
 Lord Howick  only rose to correct a great mistake which had been just now committed by the hon. member for Oldham, when he laid it down as an incontrovertible position, that poor-rates bore an exact proportion to the general taxation of the years 1812 and 1832. Since the hon. Member had made his speech, he (Lord Howick), had consulted the returns, and he found that
 
 
 In 1812, the poor-rates were £6,656,000 
 In 1833 6,731,000 
 
 In 1812, about £65,000,000 
 In 1832, about. 46,000,000 l l
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, that there was a great deal of truth in what the hon. Gentleman had just stated; but that it happened to be totally irrelevant, to the case at issue. The hon. Gentleman made a statement, in the course of his brief observations, which fully bore out the allegation of the petitioners respecting the ignorance of Irish affairs generally prevalent in the British House of Commons. He had stated, that there were one hun-
 758 759
 Mr. O'Connell  wished the House to consider what effect the refusal of his Motion would produce in Ireland. None of his statements had been contradicted; and the only reasons offered for rejecting his proposition were, that he had made a similar one last Session, and that, a general measure on the subject was about to be introduced. Much as he respected Mr. Serjeant Perrin's talents, he could not allow that that Gentleman would be able to amend the Corporation of Dublin by any other mode than the introduction of a separate measure. That Corporation was regulated by statute, and any enactments for its reformation, if contained in a general measure, must be kept distinct
 775
 Mr. O'Connell  said that, in consequence of what had fallen from the noble Lord, he should ask leave of the House to withdraw his Motion.
 Mr. O'Connell  rose, pursuant to the notice he had given, to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the better regulating the Corporation of the city of Dublin. He had obtained leave the last Session of Parliament, and had prepared the Bill; but apprehending that his own local knowledge was not sufficient in some of its details, he had submitted the Bill to his constituents, both in public meetings which were held for the purpose, as well as having published it in the newspapers. He knew that this Bill would give entire satisfaction to the great majority of the inhabitants of the city of Dublin, and the reform in the Corporation would, in their opinion, be a practical measure of the utmost utility. Therefore, at present, the Bill came before the House fortified with the circumstances;—first that he had got leave before to bring it in; and next, that the object of it was one which his constituents entirely approved of, and anxiously desired to see realised. He ought, therefore, not to apprehend opposition to the measure, and he believed none was intended on the part of the active, able, and learned Gentleman whom he had succeeded in the representation of the city of Dublin. He had, therefore, every reason to suppose he should not have any difficulty in prevailing upon the House to grant the leave he sought for. His only apprehension upon the subject was of a personal nature, for the discussions lately, on many measures proposed, had turned, not on the merits of the subject, but on the merits of its advocate. He therefore felt it his duty to apologise to the House, though it was naturally his duty, as one of the representatives for Dublin, to bring in any measure which might be considered as useful to the city of Dublin. However useful it might be, if there were any opposition to it, by the Government the could not flatter himself for an instant with success. It was for him to show that leave ought to be granted, and for its opponents to find out pretences and excuses for interrupting the course of right and justice—pretences and excuses, he should be able to show, which must be of the most flimsy description. Let the House see what enabled him to bring the Bill before the House. They were told something
 765 766 767 768 769 l l l l l l 770 l 771 l 772 l 773 l l l s l l Littleton l l l
 Mr. Faithfull , characterized it as an act of injustice, that the rights of Dissenters should have been so long withheld from them, and that Bill was no restitution of their rights. Many petitions had been presented to the House on this subject, (with the whole of which he did not agree in sentiment); and many more would be presented, of which opportunities he would avail himself to express his opinions more fully and decidedly. A great deal had been said of clandestine marriages. Now the fact was, that there were fewer clandestine marriages among the Quakers and I Jews, who were not subject to those laws, than there were in the Established Church. Why not allow Dissenters to celebrate marriage in their own way, as the Jews and Quakers were permitted to do? He would leave the noble Lord to reconcile this difference. The measure proposed by the noble Lord was a minute and contemptible one. He would attend to the progress of it, and, on the second reading, would do it as complete justice as his ability would permit.
 Mr. Pryme  rose to bring forward the following Motion:—"That the Committee on every Inclosure Bill shall, in their Report, certify whether a portion of land, as near to the village as conveniently may be, and not less than in the proportion of one acre to every twenty-five inhabitants according to the last population census, has been by such Bill directed to be allotted out of the commonable lands or waste grounds to the incumbent of the living and the parish officers for the time being, and the owners of one hundred acres of land in such parish, as trustees in trust to let the same in small portions, at low rents, to all labourers resident in the parish who may be desirous of hiring the same, such rents to be paid to the parish officers for the time being, in aid of the poor-rates; or whether there be any special reason why such allotment cannot conveniently or properly be made in that particular instance." The plan, said the hon. Member, of giving small allotments of land to labourers was not quite a new one. The experiment had been tried in some instances, and found very beneficial. In the November of 1830, when the firing of stacks and farmyards was occurring in different parts of the country, it was not found that labourers having these small allotments were in any instance connected with such outrages. In a parish in the county of Cambridge half an acre had been given to each labourer, with a condition that he should be discharged if he did not pay the rent. Since this establishment was formed, it had been found necessary to discharge no more than two; the poor-rates had been diminished, and the habits of the labourers greatly ameliorated. The pro-
 790
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had told them, that if he had been on this Jury, he would have concurred in their verdict. He was sure that the right hon. Gentleman would not have done so, as he knew that he was incapable of violating his oath. This he would assert, that no man could have found such a verdict in such a case without violating his oath from party principles and political motives. It was said, that any honest Jury would have found a similar verdict. Why, then, were the names of such respectable men as Mr. Guinness, and Sir T. M'Kenny struck off' the panel from which that Jury had been selected? One of those individuals was Governor of the Bank of I Ireland, and they were both of unimpeached integrity and respectability. Was it intended to have an honest Jury or a fair verdict when such men were struck off the list? Did the House require stronger evidence to prove the efforts of the Crown to obtain a partial verdict in its own favor? If it did, that evidence was to be found in the striking off the names of every Catholic on the list. One of them was Mr. William Murphy, a gentleman who possessed more property than the whole twelve who sat upon the Jury. When they wished to convince the people of Ireland that a
 799 Morning star 800 801 802 803
 Mr. Secretary Stanley : I agree with the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, the member for Drogheda, that Mr. Barrett is an ill-used man; he is an ill-used man; but by whom has he been ill-used? Not by the Government, but by those—[Mr. O'Connell to those around him "Let him alone."] I presume that I am to be "let alone" in this House.
 Mr. O'Connell : I rise to order. [Loud cries of "Order order."]
 Mr. Stanley : I say, Sir, that the disorderly interruption of the hon. and learned Gentleman does not become him in the House, in which that hon. and learned Gentleman has the honour to sit. I say that, when I am discharging my duty in the face of the House and the country; and when I am speaking before the hon. and learned Gentleman and the country, as I trust I shall always speak, without fear or hesitation, before his face, I need not the permission of the hon. and learned Gentleman, nor his audible exclamation that I should be "let alone," to obtain a hearing for any observations which I may consider it my duty to make.
 Mr. O'Connell : I rise, Sir, to order. If I am out of order in what I am about to state, you, Sir, will at once correct me. I rise to explain the reason of the observation which the right hon. Gentleman has attributed to me. It was addressed to two Members near me. In consequence of both of them speaking to me at the same time, I was obliged to raise my voice to them to say, "Let him alone." If I used any other expression, I call on the right hon. Gentleman to state it. If I addressed any observation to him, I call on him to state what it was. My observation was solely intended as a private communication to two Gentlemen near me, and from the cause I have mentioned, I was obliged to raise my voice in order to enable them to hear me.
 Mr. Stanley : If the House is satisfied, I am sure I am. I have heard the hon. and learned Gentleman in his address to the House, with patience. I only ask the Gentlemen opposite to extend to me a similar degree of patience for the few words which I shall have occasion to address to the House. I say again. Sir, that Mr. Barrett is an ill-used man—but I say again that if he has been ill-used, it is not by his Majesty's Government. It is
 804 805 806 807 "To such a sudden flood of mutiny." 808 809
 Mr. Pryme , in reply, said, there were twenty Inclosure Bills this Session, and he saw no reason why such a measure as that proposed by him should not be applied. If they could not do all the good they desired, they ought to do all they could.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the affidavit; did not state whether the objections made on behalf of the traverser were yielded to by the Crown. The affidavit, in this respect, was most carefully drawn, and studiously avoided such a statement.
 Mr. Stanley  objected to the Amendment which had just been read, because the hon. Member who proposed the motion having come down to the House with a determination to press for a vote of censure on the conduct of the Government, finding his evidence and his facts far short of the mark to which he had hoped to raise the House, and finding also how utterly unable those who sided with him were to make out any case for censure but that the whole accusation in Mr. Barrett's prosecution fell through— No, no, and loud cheers
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that, after all that had passed that evening, the public would be the best judge between them. There
 817 818 819
 Mr. Wynn  would not detain the House longer than to express his opinion, that, consistently with his feelings of justice, he could not vote either for the Motion or the Amendment before the House. The Clerk of the Crown had but exercised the discretionary power with which the law had invested him; and had, doubtless, acted conscientiously in the rejection of the four Catholics, as alleged. If Committees were to be continually appointed to inquire into the motives of every discretionary act of public functionaries, that House would be degraded into a species of inquisition revolting to all feelings of honour and independence.
 Captain Yorke  said, he had an objection to the Bill. It was usual to allow Magistrates to send persons convicted of certain offences to serve on board King's ships, as a commutation of the sentence of imprisonment and hard labour. An objection was raised against the licence granted to Magistrates, on the ground that many convicts were thus forced into the naval service who were rather calculated to injure than promote it. There was some justice in that objection. But, then, the right hon. Baronet would extend his
 828
 Lord John Russell , in reply, said, the objections would be more properly discussed in some future stage. The hon. Member who spoke last, said the measure was minute and contemptible. It certainly did not go so far as totally to extinguish the Established Church, or to separate Church and State, as the hon. Member wished. It was not one of those grand and decisive measures which involved total overthrow. He did not mean to deny the advantages of a general registration, but there were difficulties and objections which the member for Middle-
 789
 Lord John Russell  said, he rose for the purpose of moving for leave to bring in a Bill for the relief of persons dissenting from the Church of England in regard to the celebration of marriages. It was well known that, for a longtime past, Dissenters had complained of the grievance which they suffered and the violence done their consciences in being obliged, for the purpose of contracting marriage, to appear before a minister of a church from which they dissented, and to go through ceremonies inconsistent with their own forms of faith. It was likewise felt by many ministers of the Established Church as a most painful duty to have to perform the marriage ceremony for persons dissenting from the Church, who, as most frequently happened, disregarded the ceremony, and very often protested against it at its conclusion. Such being the feeling on both sides, there would not be found, he believed, a single person, whether Churchman or Dissenter, who would not be extremely pleased if a measure could be framed which, without doing any injury to the Church on the one hand, or violating the
 777 778 779
 Mr. Lynch  agreed with the hon. Member who spoke last, that the main question before the House was entirely lost sight of; but this he would add, by no one more than the hon. Member himself. The House had nothing to do with the personal quarrels of the hon. Member with the Press of Ireland; the subject was totally irrelevant. In like manner, what had the House to do with the question,
 823 824 825
 Mr. O'Dwyer  rose to bring forward the charge which he had to make against the Irish Government and which was one of serious importance. It was in fact no less than that, in a case of the Crown against a subject, a jury had been empannelled in such a manner as to secure
 792 Pilot 793 Pilot Pilot 794 ex-officio 795 v Pilot
 Mr. O'Dwyer  said, that an hon. Member had stated that, if the Clerk of the Crown had reasonable grounds to suspect the four Catholics on the Jury List of being violent partisans, he was perfectly justified in striking off their names. It so happened, however, that such was not the case; for all the individuals, both Catholics and Protestants, whom the Clerk of the Crown had objected to were remarkable for having abstained from politics. On the other hand, two persons, who were suffered to remain were known to have been violent politicians, and even to have themselves published a libel upon that House and Government, when, at a meeting of the Corporation, it was suggested by them to present a petition to the King, at St. James's, instead of to Parliament, who would not bestow attention upon them. This was a libel to the same extent as the very libel upon which they were called, as Jurors, to pass judgment. As to the question, whether Mr. Barrett had been ill-used, he would beg to read a letter which he had received from that gentleman. [The hon. Gentleman read a letter, in which Mr. Barrett stated, that he felt convinced that the
 827
 Mr. Tower  saw no good that could arise from the Motion. Poor lands were already out of cultivation, and there was no likelihood that if other poor lands were now enclosed, they could be advantageously cultivated by labourers. What was now proposed would not effect the object which his hon. friend had in view. The number of enclosures likely to take place was too limited to be extensively beneficial. The best way to improve the condition of the poor would be to afford them an opportunity of converting their labour to most profit.
 Mr. Littleton  replied that he most distinctly understood such to have been the case.
 Mr. Littleton  said, that if he had suspended his judgment upon the present question until the conclusion of the hon. Gentleman's statement, he should have been entirely disappointed, for he had never heard a case more weakly supported. He would beg to call the attention of the House to the facts of the case. On the 11th day of May, notice was served that the Jury would be struck; that proceeding was, at the request of the traverser, postponed till the 15th of May, and 207
 796 797 798
 Mr. Littleton  begged to repeat what he had said before, that, although the officers of the Crown had a right to go through the forty-eight names one by one, they had not exercised that privilege on the present occasion. Resistance had been offered by the traverser's Solicitor in many instances, but not by the Solicitor for the Crown. Nay, more; in proof of the liberal conduct of the Government, he would state, upon the authority of an affidavit, by an officer of the Crown, in this prosecution, that, after the forty-eight names had been reduced to twenty-four, and that the Jury had been selected from them, the Attorney for the traverser objected to the name of Mr. J. Blacquiere, upon which the Clerk of the Crown consented to withdraw that gentleman, and substitute Mr. Armstrong in his stead.
 Mr. Littleton , in explanation, repeated that it was clear the attorney for the traverser had continued making objections, until the forty-eight names had been obtained, and without any objection being raised to any name on the part of the Crown.
 Mr. Littleton , in what he had to say, would not detain the House more than a few moments, because he was sure that, as the hon. and learned Member proceeded, the House became quite convinced that the present was not the most fitting-opportunity for the introduction of the Bill to which the hon. and learned Gentleman's Motion referred. He begged to remind the House, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had never raised his voice in favour of Corporation Reform, before Government announced the intention of appointing a Commission of Inquiry into the state of the existing Corporations. To the Government belonged the merit of originating that inquiry; the merit of cordially approving of it belonged to the hon. and learned Gentleman. He trusted the House had not forgotten what passed on this subject during the last Session. The hon. and learned Gentleman, at that period, moved for leave to bring in a Bill similar to the one he now proposed to introduce, and his Motion, after much discussion and objection on the part of several Members of the House, was agreed to, on the con-
 774
 Mr. Littleton  complained of hon. Gentlemen for ever dragging in the subject of the Church upon petitions totally foreign to that question. Here was a petition upon the Repeal of the Union. [Mr. Finn And also praying for an abolition of tithes.] He was aware that the tithe question was mixed up with the Repeal of the Union, for it seemed to be the principle upon which those who got up Repeal Meetings, acted, to also mix up that very popular subject with it—the tithe question; fearing, no doubt, that the Repeal of the Union would not be attractive enough to command an attendance at meetings, to be called for that purpose alone. But still he must complain of hon. Gentlemen for ever lugging in the subject of tithes, no matter whether the question was or was not before the House; and he particularly complained of the hon. Gentleman who last addressed the House, making the statement he did, when he at the same time stated, that a petition was to be presented on the subject of the increase of tithes, upon which occasion an opportunity would have been afforded to the hon. Gentleman to make the statement which he had just made. He would not now enter into the subject adverted to by the hon. Member; but he would just observe that the cases stated by the hon. Gentleman were those of ecclesiastical unions—they were not substantial parishes—if they were, they would be nothing more nor less than sinecures; but they were not; and this he would prove upon another occasion. The hon. Gentleman said, that the Compulsory Tithe
 762
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  contended, that there were good reasons for mixing up the question of tithes with that of Repeal of the Union; for they were both grievances which the people complained of, and they were determined, whilst petitioning to be relieved from one, to be, also, relieved from the other. The complaint against Irish Members last year was that they did not go into the details of the question; but it was now especially their duty to go into the details after the introduction of the extraordinary and iniquitous measure of the right hon. Secretary—because, when the Bill was brought before the House the right hon. Secretary for Ireland, and the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies, would run away into declamation, and no opportunity would be allowed of fully and fairly discussing the details. Why, the right hon. Secretary himself had said that he found it necessary to go into the subject at very great length, because the House was in a state of ignorance respecting it. He begged that right hon. Gentleman not to lend his immaculate private character to so nefarious a measure. He had a great respect for that right hon. Gentleman; but it was not by the graces of the drawing-room, or the amiabilities of the nursery, a man was to be qualified for the duties of a Secretary of State for Ireland, in the present distracted condition of that long misgoverned country. He begged the right hon. Gentleman not to be persuaded that his Bill would give satisfaction in Ireland. If the right hon. Gentleman would introduce a measure founded upon the 147th Clause of the Church Temporalities Act of last Session, which Clause was abandoned in the progress of the Bill, he would be indeed the pacifying Secretary. It was vain to say that the Catholics were the agitators of the tithe question; for, since 1824, when the grass lands were subjected to tithes, under the Commutation Act, the Protestant Gentlemen had taken pride
 763
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  concurred with the hon. member for Middlesex in what he had said respecting personalities; and he thought that the right hon. Secretary for the Colonics had gone away from the whole question, in order to indulge in declamation. The right hon. Secretary for the Colonies had totally-lost sight of the question before the House, in his eagerness to heap abuse and calumny on the head of his hon. and learned friend, the member for Dublin. For his own part, he must at once express his conviction, that Mr. Barrett had not a fair Jury; if he had had an impartial instead of a packed Jury, he would not have been convicted. And what had the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) said the other evening with reference to the proceedings, which had since been adopted towards Mr. Barrett? The noble Lord declared the law to be a monstrous one, and one which ought not to exist. What course did he recommend to be taken? Why, he said, there could be no difficulty in evading the law; and this suggestion came from the head of the Government in the House of Commons. He admitted, and he admitted with regret, that the mode in which the question had been met, was anything but fair on the part of Government. The Ministers were careless who suffered, provided they were not to be placed in a wrong light, or their agents called to account for their misconduct. The right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary for the Colonies, had thrown his powerful mantle over the proceedings
 816 v
 Mr. Finch  said, that it was a bold assertion to say, that the affairs of Ireland were neglected, whilst there were one hundred Irish Members in that House. Those hon. Gentlemen must want either the power or the will to attend to the affairs of that country. He did not believe, that the accusation was well founded, for nothing could be more inconsistent than to say, that hon. Gentlemen of such talent wanted power; and it would be as uncharitable to suppose, that they wanted will. When the House considered that there were reports from Ireland upon agriculture, manufactures, population, the criminal jurisprudence, and when there were two debates a week upon Irish affairs, that one-half of the English Members had visited that country, and that they had one hundred Irish Members to give them all the information they could require—it was rather a bold assertion to say, that they were utterly unacquainted with Irish interests; and he was bound to say, in justice to the hon. Members for Ireland, as well as the other Members of the House, that, in his opinion, the charge was without the slightest foundation.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that the statements on both sides were so contradictory, as to render it utterly impossible to come to a fair and rational conclusion without further information. The only document which could at all enable them to come to a conclusion, was the affidavit produced by the noble Lord, which went to show, that there was nothing unfair in the choice of the panel. Now, was that affidavit conclusive, and did it altogether debar the inquiry which was demanded? But, even though this document was perfectly correct and unquestioned, it still appeared to be somewhat inconsistent and ambiguous. It would seem, that 207 names were called before forty-eight were retained, though it did not appear in what manner that number was retained. If he was to understand, that the traverser's attorney had the unlimited discretion and power to object, without assigning any reason, to any of the names on the panel, and that these forty-eight were called over without his offering any objection, then he would say there was no ground for demanding that inquiry. If the contrary were the fact, was it not right, that the Crown should be freed from all imputation of being parties to such conduct? He owned it appeared to him curious, that out of 207 names there should be only seven Catholics. Was not that a fit-subject for inquiry? It was rather extraordinary, that out of the 207 names, the traverser should not, if he had the power, object to more; and he could not help suspecting, that there should be something in the mode of striking off persons from the list with which the House was not yet made acquainted. He had no personal feelings to gratify in the question; he was altogether unacquainted with Ireland, as well as with the hon. Members on the Ministerial side; and he must say, that he was only anxious, that the facts of the case should be distinctly
 821
 Mr. Barron  acquitted the Government of any unfair intentions in the present case. Certain it was, that parties of the highest respectability had been struck off the Jury lists in Ireland; so much so, that, in the North, not a single Catholic was ever permitted to sit on a Jury. He repeated, that he did not believe the heads of Government had willingly lent themselves to this unfair system; but that their underling dependents were undermining them, and bringing them into disrepute, by their political interference in these matters.
 Mr. Barron  felt convinced, that the commission the appointment of which was recommended, and having at its head a highly-gifted and honourable man—he meant Mr. Serjeant Perrin—would present a report to Parliament which would be entirely satisfactory to the people of Ireland. With this conviction strong in his mind, and representing, as he did, a large city, the inhabitants of which were greatly interested in the proceedings of the Corporation Commissioners, he thought, with all due deference to the hon. and learned member for Dublin, that the people of Ireland would be glad to see one general measure of Reform introduced, instead of a series of separate Bills, applicable exclusively to particular places. If the hon. and learned Member were allowed to introduce a Bill with reference to Dublin, what reason could be shown why he should not be permitted to propose a Bill solely applicable to the city of Waterford? He really did not understand why the hon. and learned Member should attempt to make a difference where no real distinction existed, and thus needlessly occupy the time of the House. Such, at any rate, was his opinion, and he would not shrink from avowing it, though it might excite the scoffing of the hon. and learned Gentleman. He trusted the Motion would not be persevered in, for if carried, so far from answering any good purpose, it would tend to destroy the feeling of satisfaction with which the people out of doors were disposed to regard the labours of the Corporation Commissioners.
 Mr. Lambert  had never shrunk from expressing his sentiments in that House, and on this occasion he must say, that he agreed with the hon. Gentleman who brought forward the Motion, that the practice of excluding Roman Catholics from Juries in Ireland had prevailed to a great and shameful extent; but the question was, not whether that evil had prevailed, or whether that reprehensible practice had been continued, but whether it had actually occurred in the case before the House. He must say, that, regarding the question in a calm and dispassionate manner, he had not heard sufficient evidence to induce him to think, that the House ought to grant a Committee of Inquiry. It was perfectly true, that Committees of Inquiry had lately been granted for all sorts of things; but he really thought, that such concessions did not always add to the respectability of that House, or promote the objects of those who sought for those Committees of Inquiry. In the absence of any facts that would enable him to come to a conclusion on that subject, he was obliged to consider what probable motives the Crown could have for the conduct which had been attributed to it. Would any man tell him, that if any officer of the Crown so far violated his duty as to make a partial selection of Jurors, he would select Orangemen as the most favourable to the Government? If a Government agent were to commit such an act, all he would say, was, that he must be the greatest blunderer in existence. But, admitting that they were not indisposed towards the Government, was it natural that the Law Officers of the Crown should afford them an opportunity of being addressed in one of the most eloquent appeals to the passions and prejudices of party spirit, that was ever delivered in any assembly? The learned Gentleman, on that occasion, departed from his usual practice; he gave up both the case and his client, and made an appeal solely and entirely to the passions of the Jury. But so strong were the facts, so undeniable was the charge, that though he addressed the feelings of the Jury in every possible way, though he wrung every fibre of their hearts, yet their sense of duty prevailed, and they instantly returned a verdict against him. Would any hon. Member
 822
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that he had listened to the speech of the noble Lord who introduced the subject of the Debate, with that attention which its great interest demanded; and he thought the statements it contained so clear, that no one could misapprehend them. Throughout the whole of that speech, the aim of the noble Lord was, to show that his Majesty's Ministers were very desirous of affording relief to the Dissenters, and to prove that this measure would effectually secure the relief they desired. But after hearing the speech of the hon. and learned member for the Tower Hamlets (Dr. Lushington), he found that, though the measure was one professing to have for its main object the relief of the Dissenters, yet that a deference to the authority of the Church was still to be maintained, and great pains taken to prevent anything being done, that should displease the members of the Establishment. For his own part, he confessed that he saw no sufficient reason for this tenderness towards the feelings of churchmen, for since it was a Bill intended to regulate the marriages of Dissenters, he could not understand why churchmen should either assume, or be permitted to have, any interest whatever in the matter. The hon. and learned member for the Tower Hamlets had given it as the result of his experience, that the people of England belonging to the Established Church would be grievously wounded if the marriages of Dissenters were to be celebrated wholly by, and among themselves, without the Church having any cognizance of the matter. Now, with all deference to the experience of the hon. and learned member, he (Mr. Buckingham) must take leave to say that, as far as his experience went—and it was as varied and extensive, perhaps, as that of the learned Civilian—though possibly among different classes of society, he should say that he had never met with any lay members of the Church, who had not expressed their readiness to concede to the Dissenters the entire management of their marriages,
 785 786 787 788
 Mr. John Browne  considered the proposition of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, on a former night, a most improper one. To take two-thirds of the tithes away would be something like a national robbery; for those two-thirds belonged to the poor of Ireland. He approved of the principle of the proposed Tithe Bill, as he thought the collecting it as a Land-tax would put an end to such horrible scenes as had lately been transacted in Ireland.
 Mr. Roebuck  had a question to put to the right hon. Secretary for Ireland—namely, whether it was true, that, out of 207 names forty-eight were chosen within that number without any objection being made on the part of the accused? If such was the case, there was an end of the question.
 Mr. Hume  said, it appeared to him extraordinary, if the list had been struck fairly, that out of a panel containing, as he understood, upwards of 700 names, the majority of which were those of Roman Catholics, so few of that persuasion should have been selected by the Clerk of the Crown. If that officer had selected only four Roman Catholics in a list of forty-eight, it required no reasoning or argument to disprove the fact of existing partiality and corruption. It might certainly so happen that some names might have been passed over by the officer, but he must confess, that after the personalities which had been indulged in upon the present occasion, with the view, apparently, to conceal facts and avoid the real question before the House, it
 815
 Mr. Hume  wished to know at what period the Government expected to be enabled to propose a general measure with respect to Corporation Reform? If it would not be practicable for them to introduce any such measure in the present Session, they surely could not refuse the hon. and learned Member the privilege of bringing in a Bill to reform the Corporation of Dublin.
 Mr. Hume  was disposed to think that we had adopted a very bad principle upon the subject of the registration of births and marriages. Marriages should be a civil act, and then the registration would
 780
 Mr. Hume  would wish to know if men-of-war were not made prisons for other purposes? He maintained, that convicted smugglers, if sent to serve on board King's ships, would return home better men, and be a service to their country; but, if sent to the treadmill, would go back worse members of society.
 Mr. O'Ferrall  regretted the personality with which the discussion had been conducted. If the appointment of a Committee of Inquiry were to be considered as a censure on the Government, he would not agree to it; but if it were merely intended by the appointment of the Committee, to ascertain the truth of the facts stated by the hon. Members who supported the inquiry, he should vote for the affirmation of that proposition. He was in conscience convinced, that if the election of the Jury had been by ballot, and that the six gentlemen whose rejection was complained of, had been members of the Jury, that circumstance would in no measure have altered the verdict of the Jury. He could not, however, but admit, that Juries in Ireland were not generally fairly chosen. In Queen's County, for instance,
 820
 Mr. Sheil  said, that the question here was, not as to whether this publication was a libel, but whether the Government had resorted to the proper means of procuring a conviction. He asked, why was it that recourse had been bad to means which reflected so much discredit on the Government, and against which the members of the Government professed to be so decidedly opposed when they sat upon the Opposition side of the House? On the present occasion they had not endeavoured to show that the Jury was not packed. This question was not to be decided by the enthusiastic ejaculations of hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House. No, it was to be decided by facts, and by facts alone. How was the question put—he would not say by the Secretary for the Colonies—but by the ex-Secretary for Ireland? That right hon. Gentleman had not attempted to show the House that the Jury was not packed. He began with an attack upon the hon. and learned member for Dublin; and with an
 810 811 v v 812 813
 Mr. Sheil  said, as his object was not to delay the time of the House by any discussion, he would read the petition. The hon. Member proceeded to read the petition at length. The petitioners complained of the grievances inflicted by the tithe system, that it had brought odium upon the Church
 757
 Mr. Sheil  said, the petition merely stated that the English Members were not acquainted with the interests of Ireland.
 Mr. Sheil  presented a petition, very numerously signed, indeed by some thousands of the inhabitants of the town of Thurles, in the county of Tipperary, praying for the total abolition of tithes and the Repeal of the Union. The hon. Member said, that the petition stated that the majority of the Members of that House were ignorant of the interests of Ireland. It also stated, that the Repeal of the Union was as much required by Ireland as the Reform Bill was by England, and that the majority of the English Members were as indifferent to the interests of Ireland as the Members of the boroughs formerly were to the interests of their constituents.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that though he did not mean to commit himself to any part of the Bill to be brought in by the right hon. Secretary for Ireland, he would say, that in his opinion, the most convenient form of collecting tithe funds was not by a composition, but by a land-tax—that principle he would most strenuously support. It had been said by the honourable and learned member for Dublin, that nearly all the English Members, and part of the Scotch, were ignorant upon Irish affairs. Now he would say for the whole of the Members of that House not Irish, that no subjects whatever received more attention, or took up more of the time of the House, than those connected with Ireland. Although Members might differ in opinion with the hon. and learned Gentleman, that was no good ground for saying that therefore they were inattentive to Irish affairs—it was quite possible to obtain in Ireland information of a very different nature from that which that hon. Gentleman gave them. He remembered an instance in that point took place upon the Coercion Bill. The Member for a county, in very flowing language, stated that it was in a state of the greatest tranquillity—while the Lord lieutenant of the same county, who was resident upon the spot, stated it to be very much disturbed, and in a state of almost complete anarchy. He might charge upon the Irish Members, that they were ignorant of Scotch affairs, and unfit to legislate upon them; but as he knew their persevering nature, he would not; then why should the other Members be so often told that they were both ignorant of, and inattentive to, those affairs they were called to legislate upon? The House, in his opinion, had in general shown great attention to, and a complete knowledge of, the state of Ireland.
 Dr. Lushington  was not inclined to deny that, if in the existing state of society, general principles could be carried into effect, it might be considered a most advisable, simple, and efficient plan, to render marriage (after due publicity had been attained by some mode of publication) a civil ceremony, leaving it to the parties at a subsequent period to comply with such religious ceremonies as their own feelings and consciences might dictate; but the country was not precisely in that state and condition, for it contained persons of a great variety of sentiments on the subject of marriage, and the nature of the contract; and he was perfectly confident, whatever might be his own judgment, that it would be exceedingly difficult to carry into complete and universal effect the principle to which he had adverted without violating the conscientious feelings of a very large proportion of those who were attached to the Established Church. If we could find a practical remedy for the present grievances—if we could remove from the minds of the Dissenters the present unpleasant and painful feelings which they experienced—without violating the feelings of members of the Established Church, it would be expedient to do so. He was afraid, however, that there was no such middle course as might be found acceptable to the great majority of all opinions, and, therefore, the advantage which would be derived from the measure proposed by his noble friend was this, that, as on the one hand, the most scrupulous judgment could not possibly find any sound reason or ground for objecting to the present Bill being carried into effect, so he thought no honest and well-judging Dissenter would hesitate to comply with those terms and preliminaries which were essential to the due publication of the intention of the parties, and for the prevention of those fraudulent marriages which were the cause of such measures taking place. He was well aware that this measure was fraught with difficulties, but the difficulties concerning registration were very great. He was well aware, that a system of universal registration must be exceedingly advantageous; but he had read the report and the evidence, and he was prepared to say, that to the establishment of that universal registry there were difficulties which he could not overcome. In the first place, as concerned the registration of births, he was
 782 de prœsenti 783
 Mr. Estcourt  said, he was induced to believe, from the sentiments which had fallen from the hon. Members who had preceded him, that the measure now proposed, was only a preliminary proceeding to one of a more general and extensive nature. The House was, however, in the meantime, in possession of this easy and simple measure which had been proposed by the noble Lord. But notwithstanding this, he felt anxious to state that he could not agree with the noble Lord. With
 784
 Mr. Gisborne  opposed the Motion. Very little benefit could arise now from a plan of this kind, when there remained
 791
 Mr. Ewart  agreed with his hon. friend that this was a national question, and should be considered in its general importance and bearings as a national question. The measure that had been proposed was, in his opinion, not sufficiently comprehensive. He, as the Representative of a large body of Dissenters, felt a warm interest in the subject, and therefore could not refrain from asking the question, was it not felt that births, marriages, and deaths, should be properly recorded?
 Mr. Finn  said, that he and other Irish Members were most anxious to give every possible information to the English and Scotch Members on the subject of the Union and its effects upon Ireland. As an instance of the system of legislation adopted by this country towards Ireland, he begged to advert to an observation made the other evening, when an hon. Member said, that if there was not one Protestant in Ireland, still the Protestant Church ought to be kept up in Ireland. Surely, this was a strange jumble to legislate upon, and yet, absurd as it was, it appeared to be acted upon, in a very great measure, by the Parliament of this country whenever Ireland was concerned. To show the manner in which the Protestant Church was supported in a country the great portion of the population of which were Protestants, he begged to read a statement to the House. The hon. Member accordingly read the following table, exhibiting the state of population in fourteen parishes in the county of Kilkenny, indiscriminately taken, showing the total number of inhabitants and Protestants in each parish in the period of a century, namely, from 1731 to 1831, and demonstrating the progress the State religion had made in the last 100 years; together with some brief notes that would explain what would be generally found, in Ireland, the state of residence of the beneficed clergy;—
 
 
 Parishes. Population in 1731. Population in 1831. 
 Total Inhabitants. Total Protestants. Total Inhabitants. Total Protestants. 
 No 
 Killcoan (a.) 83 none Return in 1831 none 
 Ballygurram (b) 214 none 693 none 
 Killbride (c) 75 none 937 none 
 Killmackavogue (d) 250 23 1027 1 
 Killcollum (e) 300 49 2139 none 
 Rathpatrick (f) 490 67 1627 none 
 Killculliheen (g) 422 92 1353 6 families or 24 souls 
 Rathkyran (h) 445 34 1,511 none 
 Aglishmartin (i) 148 none 1,485 none 
 Portnescully (j) 630 23 no return none 
 Poleroan (k) 697 38 1246 1 
 Tubird (l) 71 46 1,103 none 
 Ballytarsna (m) 201 32 no return none 
 Clonmore (n) 227 27 1,147 3 
 4,258 391 14,268 29 760 
 (a) It is situated in the barony of Ida. This and Killbride held by one incumbent, who resides in another diocese. (b) Tithes 165 l l (c) Incumbent not resident. (d) Incumbent not resident, same as Ballygorum, being one of the six parishes that form the union of Rosbercon. (e) Tithes 480 l l (f) Incumbent not resident, being one of the six parishes that form the living of Rosbercon. (g) Incumbent, or Curate, not resident: the former has also another parish in this diocese, and two in that of Ferns, where he resides. The Curate is allowed for the cure of the twenty-four souls 50 l (h) Incumbent not resident. (i) Incumbent not resident; lives on a preferment in the West of Ireland (Dunmore.) (j) Incumbent not resident. This parish is in the barony of Iverk, on the Suir, and one of the three parishes that form the union of Poleroan. (k) Incumbent resides, keeps no Curate, and has two other parishes in the diocese. (l) Incumbent not resident, has four other parises in the diocese. (m) This parish is half a mile in length, by the same in breadth. Incumbent not resident. (n) The incumbent resides in his glebe-house, which was built for him, by the Board of First Fruits. 761 l l
 The Speaker  said, the hon. Member must be aware, that he could not present a petition so worded.
 The Speaker  said, that it appeared the wording of the petition was, that the majority of English Members were indifferent to the interests of Ireland [ Cries of "Read, read
 Sir Edward Codrington  said, that he could not, from his experience, concur with the hon Member. He should strongly object to making a man-of-war a common prison for felons. The naval service should not be made a punishment for crime. The great object should be to make it more comfortable than that of other employment; and was it the way to do that, to make our men-of-war a refuge for convicts? He did not wish to see the service thus degraded. It should be a voluntary service, and filled with men of good character; and that it could not be, if every flag ship were made a prison for convicts.
 Sir George Grey  expressed his regret with the hon. member for Middlesex, that this country seemed so far behind all others in Europe, with regard to registration. A large portion of the community, under the present system, were altogether excluded from its benefits; and it was quite necessary that a complete and extensive change should be introduced. He hailed with satisfaction the measure of the noble Lord, as the first step towards concessions to Dissenters of their just claims. He said the first step, because he had no doubt the noble Lord agreed with him in thinking that they could not stop here. There were some demands made by Dissenters, which he, as a member of the Established Church, considered both unjust and unreasonable, but there might be a difference of opinion on such matters, and, at all events, he should ever be found a decided advocate for the practical redress of every existing grievance, while the demand for it was just and reasonable.
 Sir James Graham  said, the policy of the Government was, to render the King's service as acceptable as possible. But he did not think that would be the case if smugglers were to be thrust upon it in the shape of convicts, to be confined in flagships, which were to be reduced to common gaols. Was it likely that independent and honourable men would be anxious to enter the service if the first object they saw on entering a ship was men in
 829
 Sir James Graham  said, though the hour was late, and the attendance of Members then rather thin, yet, as he apprehended there would be no objection to the second reading of the Smuggling Act Amendment Bill, which stood for that evening, he would then move, that it be read a second time.
 Sir Robert Inglis  expressed his hope that, in whatever might be done upon this subject, the House would not reject the Protestant Church, though the hon. Member seemed to say he would reject it. [Mr.  Hume
 Lord Althorp  said, that he understood
 776
 Lord Althorp  said, that he held in his hand the affidavit of Mr. Kemmis, the Crown solicitor, referring to the mode in which the Jury had been selected, and which having been seen by the counsel for the defendant (Mr. Barrett) and used in Court on the occasion, when the Judges had given a decision to the effect stated by his right hon. friend (Mr. Stanley), he would read to the House. Mr. Kemmis, in his affidavit, and of course upon oath, stated, 'That deponent attended on the 11th of May before the proper officer for the purpose of striking the Jury in the cause, when an adjournment took place, at the instance of the attorney for the traverser, to the 28th of May, on which day deponent again attended, and forty-eight names were selected, upon reading each of which, the Clerk of the Crown inquired if there was any objection on either side to the names proposed. The deponent further stated that, to the best of his recollection, he did not make any objection, though the attorney for the traverser made various and numerous objections, insomuch that 207 names were called by the officer, before the list of forty-eight names was completed. And the deponent further stated, that although many objections were raised by the attorney for the traverser, he (the deponent) did not insist upon the retention of any name upon the list to which any objection was made by the attorney for the traverser.' That affidavit which he had lead, must be presumed to be a correct statement of what
 814
 Lord Althorp  said, that many of the objections were not valid or legal. The affidavit, however, stated that "the deponent did not insist that any names to which objections were taken should be retained." The affidavit proceeded further, and stated, that when such objections had been made by the attorney for the traverser and yielded to by the deponent, the consideration of the objections was postponed at the instance of the Crown." The House would therefore see that the Crown solicitor distinctly swore, that the objections raised by the attorney for the traverser were yielded to by him.
 Lord Althorp  wished merely to say a word with regard to the vote which he was about to give on this question. His determination was to vote, in the first place, against the Amendment, and afterwards against the original Motion, in case it should be put. He did not think there was any ground for appointing a Committee in this case; and, after the affidavits which had been read to the House, the correctness of which could not be doubted, the conduct of the Government officers in this prosecution appeared clear from all suspicion.
 Mr. John Stanley  said, whatever might be the case with the landed proprietors of Ireland, those of England never betrayed any want of sympathy for the poor. The landed interests were always ready to assist the people in their distress. He agreed with the hon. Gentleman in what he had said relative to the large amount of the local taxation, and trusted that some modification in the Irish Grand Jury-laws would be made, by which the people would have some control over the taxation to which they were subjected.
 Mr. Halcombe  did not wish to detain the House, but he felt called upon to obtrude himself upon their attention for a short period upon this very important question. He thought that the great measure of reform had so renovated all the branches of our Constitution, that an end was put to all kinds of corruption. In saying this, he did not mean to deny the right of that House to interfere where a systematic course of bribery and corruption was known to prevail, and take from such borough that franchise of which it was found to be undeserving. But, while he agreed in this to the fullest extent, he called upon hon. Members to look at the situation in which the borough of Warwick was placed. The report stated, that gross bribery and corruption had taken place in that borough; and when they come to inquire, they find that only 2 l l s d l s l 840
 Mr. Baring  could not refrain from adverting to the observations which had been made by the hon. member for Harwich (Mr. Tower). The hon. Member had expressed his regret that the hon. Member for Dover had taken so narrow a view of the subject. He (Mr. Baring) believed that what was called, in Parliamentary Debate, an enlarged view of the subject, only meant the view taken by the Speaker, whilst what was termed a narrow view, simply meant the view taken by his opponent. He must confess, that he differed from the hon. Member, and thought that it was he who had taken a narrow, a very narrow, view of the question, whilst the views of the hon. member for Dover were enlarged and enlightened. The hon. member for Harwich seemed disposed to overlook the general results and effects of the present proceeding on the Constitution of the country, and upon the constituency of that House in elections. All the hon. Member viewed, was the effect of the measure upon the individual borough of Warwick. He was not going to trouble the House on this part of the subject, for the hon. Member admitted, that the question, as far as it concerned the conduct of the Earl of Warwick, was put off to another day. He had, however, paused in his enlarged views, in order to throw out some insinuations, which he (Mr. Baring) conceived was not a very liberal mode of meeting the question. Without going into the subject, he should have no hesitation in saying, on the little that he had seen of the case, that, if the House should think proper to proceed on the evidence before it, still there was not a particle of that evidence that could throw the slightest possible slur on the character of that nobleman connected with the borough, no more than it could throw a slur on any Gentleman in that House. There was not the slightest circumstance, looked at impartially, which could authorise any man to put on the books of that House a notice of a Motion to criminate the conduct of the noble Lord. He would, however, reserve himself to meet this part of the subject on a future day. It was alleged, that the corruption practised at the last election for Warwick was of so atrocious a nature that it required some proceedings of that House to punish the guilty persons; and yet, by
 842 843
 Mr. Halcombe  begged distinctly to declare, that he had never uttered such a statement, nor could he have had any grounds for saying so.
 Mr. Halcombe  repeated his denial with some energy, and declared that he was not to be held responsible for any reports
 846 Mirror of Parliament. *
 Mr. Hodgson  said, that he should oppose the Bill on the broad and plain ground, that having settled the constituency of Liverpool under the Reform Bill, they should not interfere and disturb that arrangement, unless it was shown that there had been some subsequent occurrence to justify them in doing so. No such occurrence had been brought to light, and he therefore should vote for the Amendment of the noble Lord.
 Mr. Handley  said, that he had been a member of the Committee, and he thought Mr. Foster had given his evidence in the frankest manner possible. He regretted that the hon. member for Ipswich should have taken this opportunity for making an attack upon that Gentleman's character.
 An hon. Member,  who had also been a member of the Committee, bore his testimony to the frankness with which Mr. Foster gave his evidence before them.
 Mr. Langdale  thought it was a difficult matter to bring a charge of bribery directly home to a candidate; but if it could be shown, as in his opinion it had been, that a systematic course of bribery had been traced to regularly organized Election Committees, acting in the name of a candidate, that would be found sufficient. It appeared from the evidence, that a regularly organized Election Committee was sitting in the rooms of the very house in which the bribery, in some instances, took place, and, in that house, as well as others, there was a regular system of treating going on. It mattered not to him whether charges such as these were substantiated against Sir Charles Greville, or against any other candidate; it was sufficient for him (Mr. Langdale) that this system of rioting, treating, and so forth, had taken place, in order to establish in his mind the necessity of some steps on the part of that House. The statement made of the conduct of the orange party, and of the pink and blue party, in their efforts to possess themselves of the town, showed sufficiently the nature and extent of the riots, and called for the interference of that House. If it should turn out that
 839
 Mr. Rotch  hoped the House would hear him for a few moments, while he repelled an attack which had been made on an hon. friend of his, who was not there to defend himself. He knew that Gentleman well, and a more just, honourable, and worthy individual did not exist than Mr. Wright. He was inculpated in a grave charge for seeking to induce a person named Downey to espouse the cause of Mr. Porter, during his contest for the Mayoralty of the town. The charge was not borne out; and he regretted the hon. member for Ipswich should have made himself a party to such a charge. Never was the "ridiculus mus" better exemplified. The accusation must fall to the ground. He regretted the case of the borough was confined within such narrow limits; it should have been taken upon its broadest scale. There could be no doubt but that bribery and corruption had prevailed in Liverpool, to a great and disgraceful extent. It was as clear as day that the freemen were in the habit of openly selling their votes. He remembered in 1827, that the Quarter Sessions were put off for an entire week, in consequence of the election of Mayor then going forward. The noble Lord had said there was only an item of 48 l l l l
 Mr. Rotch,  in moving pursuant to his notice for leave to bring in a bill to alter and amend the law of forfeiture as regarded the personal property of convicted felons, remarked, that the subject was well deserving the consideration of the Legislature, and complained that it was manifest, from the returns laid before the House, that the present law opened the door to great abuse. From those returns, it appeared that the whole amount of property of convicted felons in all the counties in England, during the past year (as we understood) was no more than 3,100 l l l
 Mr. Rotch  replied, that the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had consented to the Motion.
 Mr. Rotch  said, he had received a letter from the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) stating that he had no objection to the introduction of such a bill as he (Mr. Rotch) now proposed, but the noble Lord would not pledge himself further.
 Mr. Rotch  was proceeding to complain that he had been disappointed during the last Session in carrying forward his proposed measure, when
 Mr. Jephson  inquired, whether the hon. and learned Gentleman intended any personal allusion in those remarks?
 Mr. Jephson  said, his question referred to the landlords about Skibbereen. What he referred to arose out of electioneering business.
 Mr. Jephson  was surprised that hon. Members would condescend to notice the attacks of certain Irish Members from that side of the House. The hon. and learned Member (Mr. Feargus O'Connor) certainly sat in that House as the Representative of one of the largest counties in Ireland, but he did not sit there for the gentry of that county, but in spite of them. They disavowed him as their Representative, and it was not from the hon. Member that the House should take any impression as to the character of Irish Gentlemen.
 Mr. Tower,  considered that the present was a subject which ought to occupy the serious attention of that House. There could be no doubt but that inquiry should take place into the charges connected with the borough of Warwick. This House was now in a good temper to enter into such charges, and the people of England would not be satisfied unless such an
 841
 Mr. Edward Buller  begged to call the attention of the Irish Members to the conduct of the English at several periods when distress prevailed to a most lamentable extent in Ireland. In the year 1826 a subscription was set on foot for the relief
 833
 Mr. Ellice  hoped that, in the absence of his noble friend, the hon. Gentleman would consent to postpone his Motion.
 Mr. King  said, that the authority on which he proceeded, was a report of the hon. and learned Gentleman's speech which appeared in the  Mirror of Parliament
 Mr. Bolton King  was anxious, as one of the representatives of the borough in question, to address a few words to the House. He considered the proposed measure of disfranchisement necessary, not merely for the purpose of salutary punishment, but as indispensable to the maintenance, in future, of all freedom and purity of election in Warwick. The hon. Member took that opportunity of denying the correctness of a statement attributed to the hon. and learned member for Dover, to the effect that he (Mr. King) had gone to Warwick as the nominee of Mr. Tonics—a statement which he could not otherwise characterize than as fabricated and false.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor,  under the control of the Speaker, would give any explanation the hon. member for Mallow might reasonably require. He certainly had no hesitation in stating, that he had been applied to, and that subscriptions had been raised in almost every parish in the county to release the tenants of the hon. member for Mallow from gaol, where they had been sent in consequence of being unable to pay claims which were made upon them. He would not take upon himself to say what motives had induced those harsh proceedings.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor : Since the hon. Gentleman asks me the question, I certainly do.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  admitted that he did not represent the gentry, but the poorer freeholders, of the county of Cork. His family, however, were amongst the largest landed proprietors in that county. With respect to the landlords, he had been applied to, amongst others, to use his influence in different parishes in the county, to release the tenants of a certain gentleman from gaol, where they had been sent, he would not say from what motives.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  said, that, among other things, he was glad to find that there had been a great improvement in the morning sittings; there was a much larger attendance of Members, and a great many promises of relief to Ireland. He
 830 Skibbereen, February 19, 1834. My dear Sir,—I am most happy to hear your health is so much improved. I sit down to detail to you the deplorable state of this town and district. See Mr. Feargus O'Connor, and beseech of him to call the attention of Ministers to the appalling facts that I will vouch for, if necessary. The consequences of misrule are now betraying their sad effects in this unfortunate country. This pestilence is likely to depopulate it; already we have had seventy deaths in this town, in the short space of five weeks—all of the working classes. Labourers, tradesmen, &c. &c, are in a state of starvation. Most of these unfortunate people have not earned a crown since the middle of December. The town is deserted; the shops are closed; all is gloom and dismay; whilst famine and plague are committing sad havoc—with the strange anomaly of the storehouses full of corn, and quantities of butter and pork, poultry and eggs, exporting to happy England. In this sad state of things a public meeting of the landed proprietors was convened, and none would attend—there was one honourable exception, Richard Becher, who subscribed 10 l This disease is evidently produced and extended by want of sustenance. I give you one case amongst others:—In one of the lanes a widow, with six helpless young children, was attacked with the malady. The instant her neighbours found she had the cholera, they deserted her. She and the children had been living for the week before on half a supply of cold potatoes. She sunk rapidly. When my medical attendant visited her, it is impossible to describe the scene—the children would not be admitted into a house; and there they were left, with the parent dead beside them, and the children nearly exhausted from want, till we had them relieved. This is only one of the many cases that are hourly occurring about me, and conceive, under such circumstances, the landed proprietors and their agents not even to inquire into such calamity. How rapidly our tithe Magistrates and squireens would assemble, to represent the liberating of an old starved cow out of a pound, and how eloquently they would address the Government for Insurrection Acts and Coercion Bills—but they look on the sufferings of the people not only with apathy, but total indifference.
 831 True Sun l 832 l
 Mr. Tancred  thought it was impossible for any man, fairly considering the evidence, not to conic to the conclusion, that the constituency of the borough of Warwick was so overborne, as not to be able to exercise the elective franchise to the benefit of the country. The great enormity of the case consisted, not in the extent to which bribery was carried, but in the description of persons by whom that bribery was committed. It was well known that the noble Lord who owned the castle was recorder of the borough, and it was proved that the town-clerk, his nominee, had been the prime agent in every corrupt transaction. It was also proved, that several Aldermen were implicated in acts of bribery and treating. Immediately after the election, in 1831, a system of fraudulent rating was commenced, in which the land agent of the Earl of Warwick was engaged, and no less than 128 persons were added to the poor-rates on account of land belonging to Lord
 844 l
 Mr. Benett  briefly replied. The hon. Member said, that the cause which had been placed in his hands, had the support of most respectable individuals in Liverpool, who were only anxious, in seeking this measure, to secure the purity of election in that borough.
 Mr. Benett  rose to address the House, He could assure hon. Members that he would occupy but a very short time with the statements he should feel it his duly to make. Indeed, if the noble Lord (one of the members for the borough.) would say that he did not intend dividing the House at the present stage of the proceeding, he would content himself with simply moving the second reading of the Bill.
 Mr. Benett  trusted the House would in that case bear with him whilst he stated as briefly as possible the general features and grounds of the Bill. Before doing so, however, he was anxious, in justice to the Government of the country, to make one observation upon an article which had lately appeared in the  Liverpool Standard * 847 l 848
 Dr. Nicholl  begged the hon. Member in alluding to the counsel conducting the case, would not designate him by any term which would imply that he had not done, or that he had overstepped the boundaries, of his duty.
 Dr. Nicholl  thought, that a very few words would explain away the charges which had been urged with so much vehemence, and he must say with so much absurd acrimony, by the hon. Member. When the subject was last before the House, as well as on the present occasion, the hon. Gentleman said, that Mr. Wright did not dare to answer the questions put to him. But he recollected that in the last Committee, a question was put to Mr. Wright as to the former prevalence of bribery at the elections in that town, when the nominee for the petitioners objected to the question, on the ground that the Committee were not called upon to go into that subject. He was satisfied that a careful reading of the evidence would completely exonerate Mr. Wright from the charge brought against him and he thought, that it was of great importance that the character of a functionary like the Mayor of Liverpool should be relieved from such imputations as had been thrown out against him. He denied altogether the allegation of the hon. Member as to the extent of corruption in Liverpool,
 853 l l
 Mr. John O'Connell  supported the Bill, on the ground that the existence of general and extensive corruption had been proved in the borough of Liverpool.
 Mr. Hesketh Fleetwood  said, that having property in the county in which Liverpool was situated, and being well acquainted with the circumstances of that
 858 859 860
 Mr. Rigby Wason  should expressly confine his observations upon those gentlemen to the point of showing the justice of the case, and if he should happen accidentally to make use of the word "perjury" in the course of his speech, he begged to be ex-
 849 l l l l l 850
 Mr. Rigby Wason  wished it to be understood, that he did not make use of the term "the learned counsel" with the view supposed by the hon. Member; but if the hon. and learned Gentleman disdained the title of counsel, he would not again apply it to him. The hon. Member proceeded to read the evidence he designed to contrast with that of the Mayor. Mr. John Downey had stated, with reference to the election of 1827, that he treated from 100 to 200 freemen at that election; that they had "refreshments of every description, cold dinners, suppers, and breakfasts—everything." This lasted four or five days, and the men were treated after they had
 851 l l 
 
 600  freemen received. £10 and under. 
 462 between 10 and 20. 
 209 20 and 30. 
 24 30 and 40. 
 7 40 and 50. 
 1 60. 
 1,303 852 l l l l
 Mr. Rigby Wason  seconded the Motion, and was sure the House would agree, and particularly the noble Lord opposite, that if upon this occasion, he did not follow his usual custom of brevity, it was to give the noble Lord an opportunity of rebutting the statements he should make with respect to individuals of whose conduct the noble Lord might be informed, and that any other friends of theirs in the House might have the same opportunity. He should show indisputably from the evidence which had been laid before the Committee, that the mayor, town-clerk, and others of the corporation of Liverpool were men unworthy to be believed. It was a strong accusation; and if he did not satisfy the House that he was justified in making it, he was ready that the odium which always attached to false accusations should rest with him. He made no accusation against the gallant General who had long represented the town of Liverpool. He would first take the case of the town-clerk, who, it was clearly and indisputably proved—
 Mr. Thomas Gladstone  defended the present Mayor of Liverpool and Mr. Foster from the attacks which had been made upon them. There were no names in Liverpool which stood higher both in point of integrity and respectability, than the names of those individuals. He strongly deprecated the language which had been used with regard to them.
 Mr. Christmas  said, as an Irish Member, he must say that during the short time he had had a seat in that House, he had seen no indisposition on the part of the hon. Members of that House to pay every attention to Irish affairs. He trusted that in a short time a measure would be introduced by which property would be made liable, and the people rescued from the unfortunate state in which they had been represented. The circumstances detailed by the hon. Gentleman might be perfectly true, but he could bear testimony to the promptness with which the gentry had come forward when cholera first made its appearance in Ireland, for the relief of the distress of the people.
 Mr. Finn  presented Petitions from several parishes in the county of Kilkenny, for the Repeal of the Union, and complained that the House did not pay proper attention to the affairs of Ireland.
 The Speaker  said, that he had watched the hon. Members closely, lest any such disposition should arise. He did not conceive that anything had occurred to warrant
 834
 The Speaker  called the hon. Member to order, and remarked, that unless a Minister of the Crown was present to give his consent to the introduction of the Bill, the House could not entertain the subject, nor could he (the Speaker) put the question.
 The Speaker  said, he must inform the hon. Member that it was necessary the consent of the noble Lord should be expressed by himself in and before the House.
 The Speaker  inquired in what way the permission of the Crown had been obtained?
 Sir Harry Verney  did not think it fair that the House should be told so often that it paid no attention to the affairs of Ireland. The present question had been before the House over and over again, in fact daily, since the Session commenced, to the exclusion of almost all other subjects. He had never seen any inattention or impatience in the House, and therefore he thought it was too much that the English and Scotch Members should every day be told that they neglected their duty. Subjects connected with Ireland had received more attention, and had occupied more of the time of the House, than all matters connected with the other two countries.
 Sir John Hanmer,  in explanation, said, the Report of the Committee attached mach blame to the riots which took place, and so they did the riots which took place on both sides. He was not there to defend those riots; but, in his opinion, the law, if properly put in force, was sufficient to put them down.
 Sir John Hanmer  said, that although the hon. and gallant Member had expressed an expectation, that no opposition would be given to the Bill, still he could not help rising to declare his astonishment at such a measure having been introduced upon such a foundation. He contended, that the allegations put forth by the Report of the Committee were, in fact, only suppositions, being without the least substantial support or confirmation from the evidence. He did not mean to say that the evidence did not contain
 837 838
 Sir Oswald Mosley  rose to order. Gentlemen should not make that House the arena of their private quarrels.
 Sir Ronald Ferguson  rose to move the second reading of the Warwick Borough Bill. He had hoped that, in doing so, it would not have been necessary for him to say one word in addition to those of the mere motion; and he should have preferred that course, for he was anxious to hear, at that stage of the proceedings, if any thing could be urged in a Reformed House against such a measure. He was glad the petition which had been just presented to the Mouse was before it. It certainly was somewhat curious, to find a body of rate-payers professing to be so pure, that they feared the contaminating influence of the elective franchise. He hoped, however, that after such professions the petition would be found less exceptionable than that of last Session. The petition of last Session had stated, that those signing it paid poor-rates to the amount of 47,223 l s d l l l s d
 Lord Eastnor  was extremely anxious to present a Petition to the House, which he had that morning received, from Leamington Priors, against the uniting that town with Warwick, in the exercise of the elective franchise, and praying to be heard by Counsel against the Bill. A Motion for the second reading of the Bill which was to have that effect was first among the Orders of the Day, and therefore he was desirous, before the House took any steps, that the facts stated in the petition should be before it. The feeling in the town of Leamington Priors was extremely strong against the contemplated union; and to show that the fact was so, he would state to the House one or two circumstances. The petition he held in his hand was signed by upwards of 600 rate-payers in Leamington Priors, who paid upon an average above ten pounds a year, and they earnestly prayed the House not to sanction the Bill for uniting Leamington Priors to Warwick in the exercise of the elective franchise. It might by some be considered that such a measure would be a boon to the petitioners, but they expressed their conviction that it would be an injury. East year there were two petitions presented from Leamington Priors, on the subject of the proposed union. Although the total number of rate-payers rated at above 10 l 835 l l 836
 Lord Eastnor  would not enter into the question of whether or not sufficient corruption had been proved in the borough of Warwick to justify its disfranchisement; but, as far as the interference of Lord Warwick was concerned, he hoped the House would not form opinions unfavourable to that noble Lord, until the whole of the facts were before them. It had been stated to the Committee, that Mr. Brown was no longer the steward of Lord Warwick; and his continuing to act in that capacity from the month of November till the month of March, had been occasioned solely by the non-arrival of his successor. Besides, did the House think it likely that the steward of an individual should be engaged in committing open bribery for him. It should be remembered also,
 845
 Lord Sandon.  Does the hon. and learned Gentleman make his charges against these two Gentlemen the grounds on which he supports the Bill for the disfranchisement of all the freemen? If he does not, is it right that the characters of two respectable gentlemen should be attacked when they cannot defend themselves, and when it is unnecessary to the success of the Bill?
 Lord Sandon  certainly did intend to divide the House on the present occasion.
 Lord Sandon  had no wish to take up the time of the House unnecessarily; but he felt anxious to make a few observations in reply to the various charges brought against the freemen of Liverpool. The hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Wason) went out of his way to make an unprovoked and unwarranted attack on two most honourable individuals, whose characters had hitherto stood unimpeached. The hon. Member had not the excuse that what fell from him had been occasioned by the heat of debate, as the hon. Member had not spoken in reply. That, however, was a sample of the feeling which had prevailed during the last two years
 854 855 856
 The Marquess of Chandos  entirely concurred in the prayer of these petitions; and expressed a hope, that the important Motion which was to come on that night would meet with the support of the House. He did not think that the Government could resist a Motion to inquire into the oppressive tax on malt.
 Mr. Baring,  alluding to the observations of the hon. member for Colchester, on the Pension-list said, that the uniform tenor of his conduct was sufficient testimony that, if he considered the inquiry into the Pension-list compatible with the implied contract between the State and those who enjoyed pensions, he would have voted for the Motion.
 Mr. Lennard  presented a Petition from the Protestant Dissenters of Maldon. Their prayer was for relief from what he thought every one must admit to be practical evils. The first of these was their being compelled to pay Church-rates. He thought this was a subject which ought to engage the earliest attention of the House, and which could not be postponed without great inconvenience. It was well known, that, in many places, the imposition of those rates had already been effectually resisted. The same spirit was spreading far and wide; and it would be found impossible to levy them in any places where Dissenters were numerous. They had but one of two courses to pursue,—either to give the Dissenters the relief they so justly sought, or to enact a law which should be more forcible and stringent than the present
 875 876
 The Marquess of Chandos  said, he most willingly seconded the Motion as far as it went, but he had nothing to do with the humorous observations introduced by the hon. Baronet. When the Motion was made last year on this subject, and carried, the Chancellor of the Exchequer objected to it that the Budget for the year had, at that time, been made up and passed, but this year no such objection could be made. He was most anxious to press this Motion upon the attention of the House with a view to its being carried. He was well acquainted with the distresses of the agriculturists, and it was not the first time he had had occasion to call the attention of the House to them. It was, at one time, his hope that a measure of relief, such as that now contemplated, would have emanated from Ministers; but as, unfortunately, that was not the case, he was determined to go along with his constituents in seeking relief from the burthens under which they laboured. The question for the consideration of the House was not how much or how little of this was to be taken off, but merely for a Committee of Inquiry to see if any, and what part of it could be removed with propriety. Was there any hon. Member in that House who could put his hand to his heart and say, that such an inquiry ought not to take place? Were they prepared to send Members back to their constituents to tell them that nothing was to be done for them—that even an inquiry into their distresses had been refused? The distress which existed amongst the agriculturists was not stationary—it was progressing fast; new cases of suffering were occurring daily, which, he feared, would soon create a spirit of discontent and disorganization, which it would in a short time be difficult to check. After the kindness he had experienced from the House on a former evening, when speaking on this subject, it was not his intention to take up much of their time, but he could not resist the opportunity of calling upon them to go along with the tide of petitions which had flown in from the agriculturists,
 889
 Colonel Evans  said, he now rose principally for the purpose of explaining how it happened that he was not in his place on Tuesday evening, to bring forward his Motion for a repeal of the duty on windows. The cause was this—a deputation from Marylebone had waited on him in the course of that day, requesting him not to bring it forward. The Central Committee of Westminster made a similar request; a large public meeting, at which at least 1,000 persons were present, made a similar request—all objecting to that tax, but yet all agreeing that if the Chancellor of the Exchequer could not afford it now, he might be prepared for it in the course of the ensuing year. These meetings were thankful for the remission of 1,200,000 l
 Colonel Wood  could not abstain from alluding to the nature of the agricultural relief which had been suggested by the hon. Gentleman who had preceded him. The hon. Member had spoken as if he proposed to sweep away all the old occupiers of land. Till this event took place—till all the old occupiers of land had been Swept away—he had predicted that there would be no relief afforded to agriculture. He (Colonel Wood) certainly could not acquiesce in this opinion, which did not comprehend the principles calculated to furnish agricultural relief. The total Repeal of the Malt-tax was practically impossible, for it would be hopeless to raise in its place a tantamount income. He knew of nothing so likely to remedy the difficulties under which the agriculturists were now suffering as a partial repeal of the tax. If the House agreed to repeal half the Malt-tax, and impose a duty of 5 s s s 895
 Mr. Baring  considered the subject under debate as one of extreme importance, notwithstanding the manner, highly unfortunate for the cause, in which the hon. Baronet had thought proper to introduce it. He trusted, however, that the merits of the question would not be permitted to suffer on that account. There were some who thought, that a partial repeal of the Malt-tax was desirable; some who were of opinion, that the repeal ought to be total. Under such circumstances, there was but one course of proceeding which could be considered perfectly justifiable. Here were a great many Gentlemen all ready to afford relief, but not agreeing as to the extent of that relief. The only proper course, therefore, was to put the Motion in a shape which should enable all who agreed in the general principle, that relief to some extent or other should be afforded, fully to discuss to what extent it should be carried. In all the recent proceedings of that House, it had been the uniform rule and practice to deal with all questions affecting our commerce, our agriculture, our manufactures, or any other of our great interests, in a Committee of the whole House; it being obvious, that a debate upon any subject
 906 l 907 l l l l 908 s s s s pro tanto s s l s d s s s s s s d s d s s s 909 s s 910 s s 911 l l 912 l l s d s l l l l Althorp 913 914 915 916 917 l l 918
 Mr. O'Connell  had not many observations to offer to the House, but, coming as he did, from a remote part of the empire, where great distress prevailed, he felt it to be his particular duty to call the attention of the House to one or two points. In the first place, what was the question which they were called upon to decide? The question was, not that they should pledge themselves to the remission of any tax, but simply that they should grant an inquiry. This he understood to be the object of the hon. Baronet's Motion. Now, the noble Lord, the Chancellor
 922 No, no. No, no 923 924
 The Lord Advocate  said, that having determined not to oppose going into a Committee, and being anxious that gentlemen should go into it as free as possible from pledges to a particular course, and with minds open to the impressions which the evidence, and discussions which awaited them were fitted to produce, he should follow the example of his hon. friend in abstaining from any argument or statement of opinion on the present occasion. As his hon. friend however, had had the advantage of explaining to the House, on a variety of former occasions, the views he entertained on the subject, it was right that, in acceding to the Motion, he should so far guard himself from misconstruction as to state that he did so accede to it, and did go into the committee, with different views, different wishes, and different anticipations of the result, from those of his hon. friend. He concurred entirely in opinion as to the importance of the subject; and would add his testimony as to the extraordinary interest it now excited in every part of Scotland—an interest and an excitement which, in his opinion, made the parliamentary discussion of the subject no longer a matter of choice, but of necessity. He also believed that his hon. friend and he, however they might now differ as to the means, had but one end in view—the removal of abuses in the appointment of the ministers of religion, and the restoration of the Established Church of Scotland to the highest possible degree both of purity and popularity. In consenting to the appointment of a committee, he did not deny that it was substantially' implied that some change or correction was necessary in the existing law, or the practice under that law; and such was undoubtedly his impression. But even those who were most convinced of that necessity, must admit that there was great hazard in such changes, and that the correction, in order to be either safe or salutary, must be gone about with the utmost caution, and with as close an adherence as possible to the known principles and most approved usage of the ecclesiastical constitution. He
 928
 Mr. Murray  said, that in moving for leave to bring in a Bill for the appointment of Procurators Fiscal, similar to that which was brought forward during the last Session, he did not think it necessary to take up much of the time of the House, further than to explain very shortly the nature of the appointment. In every Sheriff's Court there is a Procurator Fiscal, who, with the exception of cases which are conducted by private parties, and these are very few in number, is the prosecutor in all criminal proceedings. Before the Rebellion which took place in 1745, the office of Sheriff had become hereditary, but by the Jurisdiction Act, which was passed in the 20th of Geo. 2nd, the hereditary Sheriffs were abolished, and it was provided that Sheriffs Depute, of certain prescribed legal qualifications, should in future be appointed by the Crown. In the old Courts, the Procurators Fiscal, and all the other officers of Court, were appointed by the heritable Sheriffs. In establishing the
 941 942
 Colonel Davies  said, there was no distinction of interests engaged in this question. He looked upon it as one involving the moral interests of the people, and as such, worthy of the best attention of that House. The beer-shops were established by the late Ministers, who also reduced the duty upon ardent spirits; and the result was, that the people were in as
 892 s d s s d l l
 Captain William Gordon  declared that if the Bill were similar to one upon the same subject which was introduced last Session, he should oppose it.—Leave was given.
 Captain William Gordon  opposed the Motion, and expressed his surprise that it should have originated in the quarter it had, as well as at the manner in which it had been supported by the learned Lord opposite. He conceived, that the subject to which the present Motion was directed could be much more properly discussed by the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland—a body to which the hon. Mover himself belonged, and which was fully competent to alter and arrange the discipline of that Church. If any alteration should be thought necessary by the General Assembly, it would be then ample time to apply for the intervention of the Legislature. He was at a loss to know what was the object sought to be attained by the Motion; for, in the first place the system of patronage now existing had been established for the last hundred and twenty years, and had been fully recognized by the Church Courts in Scotland. If the inquiry was to be directed to individual appointments, he felt satisfied that the clergy of Scotland would be found to be most unexceptionable both as to character and conduct. He knew very well that, upon inquiry it would be found, that since the accession of the present Ministry to office, the Crown patronge had been applied and disposed of for political considerations, and, in particular, he knew such an instance in a parish in the county he had the honour to represent, where a noble Lord was proprietor of four-fifths of the parish; another proprietor, the possessor of only two farms in the parish, and whose residence was at a distance of seven miles, had obtained the presentation from the political support his family had given to the present Government; and if the object of the Motion was an investigation into this matter with a view to an amendment in the system, he confessed he should not regret the inquiry being commenced; but, on the other hand, if the object of the present Motion went to disturb the whole
 929
 Lord John Russell  considered that those who thought the adoption of a property tax, previous to the repeal of so many other taxes, would be the most just, as well as the safest, course for the House to pursue, ought to bring forward that proposition at once; for, if it were carried, it would save the Chancellor of the Exchequer a great deal of trouble.
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  was greatly surprised at the observations of the hon. Member. He could say, that the voluntary principle was not so general in Scotland as had been asserted. Out of a population of 2,300,000, about 500,000 were dissenters; so that the majority of the people of Scotland were in favour of the Establishment. He wished that hon.
 873
 Mr. Johnston  must beg leave to reply to the charge of arrogance or assumption of exclusive religion, which had been urged against him by hon. Gentlemen opposite. The observations which he felt it necessary to offer on this subject, were spoken by him as an elder of the Church of Scotland; as such, he felt that the subject of religion should not be adverted to but in a grave and becoming manner; and he did not think that because he had adopted this course, he should be met by the taunts and sneers of the hon. Member opposite.
 Colonel Leith Hay  supported the Motion. He would not have said a word on the subject in its present stage, had it not been for the very pointed allusion made by his hon. friend the member for Aberdeenshire, to a case in which a near relative of his own was concerned. His hon. friend must be aware, that he had mis-stated the real facts of that case. He must be aware that no presentation had in that instance yet taken place, and that the delay was occasioned by the forms necessarily gone through to do away an annexation carried in to effect by a former Administration, at the earnest request of the noble Lord, for the purposes of personal convenience; such annexation being at variance with the interests of the community, and one that upon every principle of reason and expediency, as well as in accordance with the wishes of the inhabitants of both parishes, ought to be done away. When such an arrangement had been effected, he (Colonel Leith Hay) had reason to believe the nomination mentioned by the gallant Member would be carried into effect; and when it was, he should be prepared to prove in the first place, that it was granted from no unworthy motives; and, secondly, bestowed upon a person calculated to satisfactorily perform his important duties. He thought his hon. friend who had spoken last had laid down no good grounds against going into an inquiry. The hon. Gentleman had stated, that since the present Government had come into office improper dispositions had been made of the Crown patronage in Scotland. He did not believe that in reality there had been any such case, but, whether or not, it most assuredly could not be considered an argument against granting the Committee moved for by the hon. member for Caithness. The subject of Church patronage now engrossed the attention of a large portion
 930
 Major Cumming Bruce,  felt assured that if the Motion were carried it would produce the greatest evils to the Church of Scotland. It was very well known to the House and to the public that, practically, the appointment of such a committee as that now moved for would imply a condemnation of the system of that Church. The question had already been before the general Assembly of the Church, and, by taking it out of their hands, and placing it in those of the House, they would be taking it out of the hands of a much better, and putting it into the hands of a much worse, tribunal. He did not think that even his hon. friend who called upon the House to appoint a Committee would assert that any persons could be found better acquainted with the constitution of the Church, more zealously attached to its interests, or more desirous to uphold its highest objects—the maintenance of true religion—than the General Assembly, or that it was possible to supply from that House a tribunal possessing such qualifications in a higher degree. Who were to be the Committee? Was it to be composed of persons of the communion of the Church of Scotland? or were they to submit its affairs and
 931
 Mr. Harvey  observed, that the petitions prayed for the repeal of the Malt-duty, and against the repeal of the Corn-laws; and, what, in his opinion, was a very rational prayer, they prayed for a property-tax. In this respect he trusted, that they would not be regarded as supporting this measure from factious views. While they prayed for the repeal of the Malt-tax, which would make the revenue of the country deficient, they suggested a mode by which that deficiency might be supplied. This was a very important point for consideration. He was not aware that all the petitions contained this prayer for a property-tax, but some of them contained that prayer. He took it for granted, that
 866 l l
 Mr. Finch  was surprised to hear the hon. member for Lanark say, that the union of Church and State was unscriptural and unchristian; and that the people of Scotland were opposed to the compulsory maintenance of them. He must deny both these statements. He denied that the payment of Church dues was a compulsory payment, in the proper sense of the word; it could not be said to be a compulsory contribution, to require men to pay that which was never theirs. As to the connexion of the Church and State, he contended that it was both Christian and Scriptural. That question had been fully discussed out of doors, and he (Mr. Finch) would say, that those who were opposed to the Established Church, and to what they called a compulsory payment, had
 874
 Mr. Robinson  said, that the more the subject of the reduction of taxes came before the House, the more its importance would be seen by hon. Members. Every dispassionate observer must see, that, should any alteration of the present system of taxation take place to the extent demanded, the only alternative must be the substitution of a property, or income tax, or both. If the taxes of the country pressed so heavily on the people that they could no longer endure them, the only way left to meet this question was by a commutation of taxes. The taxes, at present, fell with unequal weight upon the lower classes of society. There were three classes of individuals affected by the taxes; first, the operative and labouring classes, who were grievously burthened by the present system of taxation; the second were the middle classes, who, if a commutation of taxes took place, would not probably be relieved to any great extent in respect to the amount of taxation; but they would be considerably convenienced by means of the new and improved machinery, which would follow any commutation of taxes. The next class were the mercantile and opulent men of this country; and his complaint against this class of persons was this, that they came down to the House to demand a repeal of the Malt-tax, without being prepared to agree to a Property-tax, or some substitution, to meet this reduction in the revenue of the country. He (Mr. Robinson) would vote for the reduction of the Malt-tax, because he was anxious that a pressure should be made on the Chancellor of the Exchequer, by which he would be forced to agree to a commutation of taxes. He wished to draw the attention of the House to what would be the probable consequence of the Chancellor of the Exchequer agreeing to the abolition of the Malt-tax, instead of the House and Window-tax. Why, considering the excitement in the public mind on the latter tax, and the part promise made by the noble Lord to remit the House-tax, that there would be such a pressure upon the Government that it would be impossible for it to go on without agreeing to a commutation of taxes. Even if the Malt-tax were repealed, such would be the pressure upon Government from without, after the promises they had already made, that they would be obliged to repeal the House-tax. They must come at last to the question of
 868
 Mr. Sinclair  would not let that opportunity pass without saying a few words. He rose more for the purpose of expressing the encouragement he felt from the presentation of the petition, than with any view to support its prayer. A petition so numerously and respectably signed, and emanating from the city of Glasgow, which was superior almost to any other in intelligence and independence, required no support from him. There was no question on which the people of Scotland felt a deeper interest, and to which they were more opposed, in consequence of unpopular ministers having been inducted in to many parishes. He would, on that point, mention an instance or two. A correspondent wrote to him:—' in 1823. towards the close of that incumbent's ministry, there were 347 families in the parish, consisting of 1,852 persons, and of these 111 families, consisting of 602 persons, remained attached to the Establishment; the rest (with a few exceptions, belonging to the Reformed Presbytery), belonged to the Secession. A subsequent event has not only blasted a fair prospect of the return of many of the Dissenters to the bosom of the Church, but still further inroads have been made on the Establishment, by a fresh desertion to the ranks of the Secession. And the first meeting-house having been found far too small to accommodate the individuals of this denomination, a new one has been lately erected of nearly double the
 870 871
 Mr. Sinclair  said, that the subject to which he should now have the honour to call the attention of the House, was one which, at the present moment, excited throughout Scotland an intense and universal interest. In proof of this assertion, he might appeal, first, to the personal knowledge of all the Scotch Members, whom he saw around him; next, to the many public meetings lately held in every quarter of this country, and which had been attended by many eminent ministers, enlightened elders, and other individuals distinguished by their piety, their intelligence, and their attachment to that admirable and Apostolic Church, which God had planted in our land; and lastly, to the multiplicity of petitions transmitted to the House, during the present and former Sessions, remarkable not only for the number, but the respectability, of the signatures appended to them. It had been his intention, and he should only have done his duty, to have entered at great length into the merits of the question; but as his Majesty's Ministers, with a readiness which reflected the highest credit on their patriotism, and which must secure to them the grateful attachment of the people of Scotland, had acceded to
 927
 Mr. Sinclair  said, he had been reproached for having adduced no arguments in support of the proposition which he had submitted. He had adopted this course in order to save the time of the House, especially at so late an hour, and because he was not aware that any opposition would be offered to the Motion, or that any Scotch Members would turn a deaf ear to the prayers of so large a portion of the Scotch people. His hon. friend, the member for Aberdeenshire, had justly stated, that the Church of Scotland acknowledged no head but Jesus Christ. He wished that this doctrine had been held and acted on by the Tories of 1712. He should then have been spared the task of endeavouring to rescue the Christian population of Scotland from that galling yoke which Jacobite high-churchmen had imposed at that most inauspicious period. It had been maintained that patronage had at all times existed in the Church of Scotland. He had intended to have tried that system by the three-fold test of Scripture, Church usage, and expediency; but should not now enter on so wide a field, as he had so much reason to hope, that the subject was about to undergo a complete and dispassionate investigation. He himself had often expressed, and still continued to entertain, a strong opinion in favour of the rights of Christian people; but he should listen with the utmost attention to the sentiments of others, whose knowledge and experience entitled them to deference and respect. The General Assembly, whose sittings were limited
 938 Edinburgh, May 22, 1736. The General Assembly having taken in to their serious and deliberate consideration the Report of the Commissioners from the last General Assembly, sent to London to apply for redress of the grievance of patronage; and that in order to deliberate what resolution was proper for this assembly or this church to take, as to their future conduct with relation to this grievance; did thereupon agree upon this opinion and resolution—'That the Church of Scotland is, by her duty and interest, obliged still to persist in using her best endeavours, from time to time, to be relieved from the grievance of patronage, until the same shall, by the blessing of God, prove successful, and, for that end, that this Assembly shall impower and direct the commission to be appointed by them, to make due application to the King and Parliament for redress of the said grievance, in case a favourable opportunity for so doing shall occur during the subsistence of that commission. And this Assembly doubts not that future General Assemblies of this Church will, from time to time, be watchful and attentive to this weighty concern, and will not fail to make the like proper applications, whenever, by the Providence of God, a fit occasion shall offer itself. And as the intent of such applications are in order to procure to be restored to this Church a valuable right and privilege she was possessed of at the Union of the two Kingdoms; so the grounds and reasons of the claim of this Church to be restored to the enjoyment of that right are so strong and pregnant, that notwithstanding the unsuccessful event of the late applications, this Assembly cannot but hope, that some like application, renewed at a proper season, will prove successful. That notwithstanding the security
 939 Of Presbyterian dissenting congregations in Scotland there are 498 settled, or having Ministers, according to the Almanack. Of
 940
 Mr. Warburton  said, that he should not have risen then had he seen the slightest disposition on the part of the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) to address the House. If the object of the hon. Baronet's Motion had been to abolish any monopoly, or to repeal any tax which operated injuriously towards the industrious classes of the community, it would have received his most willing support; but he could only regard the hon. Baronet's proposition as an attempt on the part of the agricultural interest to put their hands into the pockets of the people. [ Cries of" No." No, no." 890
 Mr. Ewing  presented a Petition from 32,000 inhabitants of Glasgow, on the subject of lay patronage in the Church of Scotland. He believed that, with one exception (a petition from the ladies of the empire, on the question of slavery), this was the most numerously signed petition which had been submitted to the present Parliament. It emanated from a public meeting, called by regular advertisement, and composed of the most respectable, intelligent, and influential classes. It stated that the appointment of Christian pastors was a spiritual privilege; that patronage was contrary to the avowed principles and constitution of the Church of Scotland; that it was declared by the Scottish Parliament to be unlawful, unwarrantable, and opposed to the rights and liberties of the Church; that the Act
 869
 Mr. Benett  denied that the removal of the Malt-duty would raise the price of beer to the consumers in towns, and said that the interests, not of the lower classes of the people, but of the great brewers alone, were considered in the continuance of that tax. The House had been told that the landed interest wanted to obtain the repeal of the Malt-tax in order to put the money in their own pockets. Now, he was ready to admit that the landed interest would obtain some relief by the removal of the duty, and in their present distressed condition they were entitled to relief; but the benefit would not be exclusively theirs, for it would be shared equally between the consumer and the producer. If the landowners took his advice, they would adopt every measure having a tendency to lower prices. Many years back they had neglected to prepare for a return to a metallic currency, and they had suffered severely for their want of prudence. Let them not betray a similar want of foresight with regard to the Corn-laws. Persevering endeavours would be made to obtain the repeal of those laws, and that those endeavours would be successful in the end he could not but believe. Under these circumstances, it was the interest of the landowners to prepare for the evil day, by lowering the price of the articles which they produced, and they could only effect this object by reducing the cost of cultivation. He considered it to be the interest of the landowners to repeal every tax affecting the production of the articles of life, and for this reason he was an advocate for a Property-tax, which pressed upon the rich, and not upon the poor. He recollected that when a Property-tax existed in this country it was run down by the clamour of itinerant orators, who possessed no property whatever. Since that period the people had become more enlightened, and a Property-tax would, he had no doubt, be now not unpopular in the country. He certainly thought
 891
 Mr. Colquhoun  said, that the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) had complained, that his hon. friend (Mr. Sinclair) had not stated sufficient grounds for his Motion for a Committee. His hon. friend had unquestionably felt, that in a case, at once so simple and so strong, it was sufficient to rest upon the proposal itself as its own justification; and so strong, indeed, had the case appeared to his Majesty's Government, that however averse they were to entertain the question, they had felt it impossible, with any colour of reason, to refuse his hon. friend's motion. What was his hon. friend's proposal? An Act of Parliament, the law of the land, was declared to be at variance with the canons and express constitution of the Church of Scotland. His hon. friend did not call upon them to repeal this—that was not then his proposal; he called upon them to inquire, through a Select Committee, whether the law was thus, indeed, at variance with the constitution of the Church, and what effect such a state of law produced upon the efficacy of the Church, and the feelings of the people. The right hon. Baronet compared this to an attack upon the right of advowson in the Church of England. Was there any canon in the discipline of the Church of England—was there any part of the constitution of that Church, which declared the right of advowson to be inconsistent with her principles?
 936
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that when he had stated on a former occasion, that he was opposed to the Church, what he meant was, that he was opposed to a compulsory assessment for its support; but he denied entertaining any desire to witness the destruction of the Church. The hon. member for Kirkcudbright must know that the Church consisted of the people,—that it was not the edifice or the Clergy, but the congregation. What he wished was, that the principle should be carried from politics to religion, and that no money should be paid except where services were rendered. It was of great consequence, that those Members who entertained opinions similar to his own should not be misapprehended, or misrepresented. There was an assumption of sanctity by certain hon. Members on the other side of the House, when any suggestions were given on the Reform of the Church, and they arrogated to themselves a kind of superiority, as though they contained in themselves the whole religion of the House. Surely, hon. Members might be very religious on that side of the House, and yet entertain particular opinions on the Church Establishment. He thought, in such extraordinary zeal for the Established Church, instead of evincing that Christian charity peculiarly inculcated by the doctrines they professed, he observed a spirit of narrow and bigoted intolerance.
 Mr. Hume  hoped that, whatever change was effected, nothing would be done which would in any way endanger public credit. Although he differed in his view of the question from the sentiments expressed by the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) he should at all times strenuously resist any attempt that might
 919 l 920 l 921 s d. d.
 Mr. Hall Dare  presented Petitions from Essex, signed by the occupiers of 16,000 acres of land, praying that the Corn-laws might
 865
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that, though he was not prepared to go the length of breaking down all ecclesiastical establishments, either in England or Scotland, he would give his support to the general statement, that there ought to be a change respecting Church patronage. He thought that a measure ought to be introduced which would give parishioners a voice in the election of their clergymen. Such a measure he would most heartily support; but he declined being a party to the destruction of the Established Church in Scotland, to which that country owed so much, and to which, he was sure, the great mass of the people were firmly opposed.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that the opposition which was made to the appointment of a Committee, on the part of the hon. members for Aberdeenshire and
 932 933 934
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  would not contradict what the hon. Member had stated, but he would say, that his (Mr. Fergusson's) information was very different, and that he believed it to be correct. The hon. Member said, he was a member of the Church of Scotland, and yet wished for the destruction of that establishment, which by the universal voice of the people succeeded the Roman Catholic religion, which had been approved of by their forefathers, and venerated from that day to this. The desire for the destruction of this Establishment was a thing of yesterday; there was a large body of men who thought it necessary to separate from the Establishment, in consequence of the manner in which the ministers of the Establishment were appointed. But to say that a member of the Church of Scotland wished well to that Church, and yet wished for its destruction, was language which he could not hear without entering his solemn protest against it. As to the obnoxious nature of the payment alluded to, he would say, their estates had descended to them charged with that payment; that they had purchased their estates under that charge; and that if they attempted to pocket that sum, it would be, in his opinion, an unprincipled proceeding, as it would be robbing the Church of Scotland of a payment which had been allotted to it in lieu of tithes, for which now they gave no consideration. He would take that opportunity to say, that there were broached in Scotland doctrines respecting Church and State, to which he for one would never give his support. Principles were carried to an extreme that would soon put an end to all Government. The first attempt was made upon the Church, the next would be an attack upon property; and he hoped that Scotch Members would never give their sanction to any proposition, which in any way tended to the destruction of the Church of Scotland.
 Mr. Gisborne  was of opinion, that this Motion was not only singular in itself, but most singularly supported. Indeed, it appeared as if the hon. Baronet and his Motion were both to be thrown overboard together. As the Motion originally stood, it was for the total repeal of the Malt-tax; but as it was now shaped, it was merely for inquiry in a Committee up stairs—[" No, no, in a Committee of the whole House"]. Well, be it so, but his mistake was not unreasonable after the change which had been made in the terms of the Motion. He could not vote for this Motion—not because he did not know and feel for the sufferings of the agricultural interest, but because he thought, that the repeal of the
 893
 Mr. Cobbett  would state, that his opinion with respect to the Repeal of the Malt-tax did not agree with that of the right hon. Baronet at all. For he could not conceive him to be guided by correct principles for the relief of the farmer, when he stated, that he would choose the abolition of the Poor-rates in preference to the Repeal of the Malt-tax. He feared, indeed, that he had fallen into the same error as the noble Lord had done when he stated, that the Poor-rates pressed heavily on the occupiers of the soil. In what way, he would ask, did they press heavily on the occupiers of the soil? It could not be said, that they pressed more heavily upon them than the tithes. They could, in truth, be only regarded as a part of the rent, and as such produced no pressure on the farmers. In illustration of this point, he would say, that he might as well call upon the House for relief from the payment of stamps at the Stamp-office. To say, that the occupiers of the soil were the payers of the Poor-rates would indeed be false and absurd. They did no such thing. It was the consumer who paid the Poor-rates. Instead, therefore, of going into a General Committee of Inquiry into the natural and local burthens of the occupier of land, as had been suggested by the hon. Baronet, it would be more convenient for the House to consider one thing at a time, and in the meantime to take into their serious consideration the Repeal of the Malt-tax. He had no doubt but that it would be argued by some, that the Repeal of the Malt-tax was putting the money into the pockets of the landlords. No such thing. The idea was preposterous, and wholly unfounded, unless it could be shown that the landlords drank all the beer. Those who maintained the opinion that all the profits arising from the Repeal of this tax would accrue to the landowners, had a very erroneous view of the subject; for it was clear the money would be put into the pocket of the consumer, and into his pocket only. It was true, many of the witnesses examined by the Committee said, that beer-shops were a great evil, but many witnesses also gave it as their opinion, that the proper remedy for this evil would be the Repeal of the Malt-tax. Beer-shops were an evil, but the real correction of that evil would be the repeal of the Malt-tax. The amount of this tax was the great objection stated against it. Now, his objection was not
 902 s s s s d s d s 903 s l l l s s s s s s s s 904 l
 Mr. Gillon  said, that if the General Assembly were inclined to legislate on the subject, they had not power; and if they had the power, still they had not the inclination. The demand for a change was universal, from one end of the country to the other, and he thought, that it was then full time to make inquiry regarding it. The right hon. Baronet had objected to the election being put in the hands of the heritors; but did the right hon. Baronet know, that the heritors were but a very small portion of the intelligent inhabitants of a parish? There were many among
 937
 Mr. Gillon  totally disapproved of the sentiments which had been expressed by the hon. member for St. Andrew's. He agreed with the hon. member for Bath, that it was most unfair to assume, that hon. Gentlemen who were in favour of voluntary contributions, were opposed to the principles of the Church of Scotland. For his own part, he begged distinctly to state, that he did not consider that he was entitled, nor did he desire to put into his own pockets the money which his lands were subject to. Previous to the Reformation, this property belonged to the Roman Catholics, and from the period of the Reformation, he considered the Church property was vested in the State, and that it should be appropriated as that House should think fit.
 Mr. Gillon  presented a Petition, very numerously signed, from the Provost, Town Council, and Burgesses of Ayr, in the county of Ayrshire, praying for the abolition of the system of Church patronage in Scotland. He could not allow this opportunity to pass, without respectfully, but distinctly and unequivocally, denying the statement of the hon. member for Kirkcudbright, that only a small fraction of the members of the Church of Scotland were opposed to the connexion of Church and State. A large majority of them were opposed to that union, and they looked upon it as unjust, unchristian, and impolitic. It was not the Established Church only to which they were opposed, but the compulsory assessment imposed by a dominant and privileged sect on all other persons in the State. He was a member of the Establishment, and it was putting the Church in an invidious situation to say, that it was not sufficiently strong to maintain itself, without imposing a compulsory and obnoxious tax upon other branches of the community. His constituents felt the objectionable manner in which Church patronage had been latterly abused, and were induced to
 872
 Mr. Tooke  said, that the application for a Charter to the University of London was now before the King in Council, and he hoped the result would be favourable, which would enable Dissenters to avail themselves of an academic education. If the Charter should not be granted, he should feel it his duty to bring the subject under the consideration of the House in the same form as he had before done.
 Sir John Tyrell  was one of those who opposed the Motion of the hon. member for Colchester upon the subject of the Pension-list. He held in his hand a petition upon the subject of agricultural distress, signed by a large number of the constituents of the hon. member for Colchester, and he would only make one remark upon this subject, which was worthy the attention of the House; these petitioners did not point cut the Pension-list as a particular object of reduction. After the Motion, the other night, for an inquiry into the Pension-list, he would give the hon. Member fair warning, that, whenever that question again came before the House, he should be ready to draw down upon himself all the indignation and unpopularity that would attach to a vote in support of the prerogatives of the Crown. His reason for not supporting the hon. member for Colchester was, because he felt that, when hon. Members now on the Treasury Bench sat on the Opposition side, they had taken a very different course with respect to the Pension-list; and he was willing to see them dragged by their own friends through the mire, as had happened on a late occasion.
 Sir Robert Inglis  rose to order. He put it to the hon. Baronet whether it was becoming to indulge in such a strain?
 Sir Robert Peel  had come down under the impression that the proposition to be made was for a total repeal of the Malt-tax; and he must say, there was considerable inconvenience, a notice having been given, that a specific proposal was to be made, in any hon. Member coming forward, and, in an instant, without any previous intimation of the change, introducing great and essential alterations in the purport and design of the original Motion. At the same time, he was not sure that the nature of the proposition had been in the present case substantially altered; because the hon. Baronet who introduced it stated his conviction, that little, if any relief, could be derived from a partial repeal of the Malt-duty; and his proposal, in fact, was to abolish the whole, promising to supply the deficiency of revenue that might result from its total abolition by substituting certain other taxes, which the hon. Baronet had detailed with some facetiousness. He did not apprehend, that the proposal of the hon. Baronet for a Committee, was with the view of maturely considering the subject, and calmly investigating how the interests of agriculture would be influenced by a partial, or total repeal of the Malt-tax. He feared, that on going into the Committee, a specific and sweeping proposition would at once be submitted to it for the repeal of the whole tax, and that the hon. Baronet had therefore only altered the forms of his Motion. With respect to the total repeal of the Malt-duty, he still adhered to the opinion he had stated in the last Session. It was impossible to decide on such a proposition without looking at the state of the revenue; although he did not consider it necessary to refer to it in detail, as every Gentleman must bear in mind the statement of the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) a few nights before. His opinion, taking into consideration the present state of the revenue of the country, was, that the House could not consent to such an extensive reduction of taxation as would be implied in the total repeal of the Malt-tax.
 896 l l l l l l l l l l l 897 898 ad valorem s 899 l l 900 l s s s s
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that, in his opinion, it would be waste of time to enter into arguments on the subject of Church patronage at this time, when a Committee was about to be appointed for the purpose of inquiry. Any arguments which he might be prepared to state against the Committee when the learned Lord had consented to the Motion, he was sure would be overruled. The hon. member for Kirkcudbright said, that the question must be decided by argument, but he (Sir Robert Peel) had not heard a single argument on the subject. The hon. Member also said, that there was a universal demand in Scotland for a change in the system of patronage. How was the House to judge of that feeling?—By petitions. There had been only ten petitions on the subject of Church patronage from Scotland presented during the whole of the present Session. The feeling was, therefore, not so strong as the advocates of a change would have them to believe. But supposing, that many petitions were presented, yet it was plain, that the object of them was to deprive one class of men of their rights, in order that they should be transferred to others. These rights had been recognised for upwards of 130 years, and they were as sacred as the rights of advowson in the Established Church of England. No inquiry could now be instituted into the conduct of the Parliament which established those rights, because such inquiry would lead to the destruction of the rights by which every species of property was held. If, as had been admitted, the patronage of the Crown was exercised with proper judgment—if there was a disposition to conciliate the prevailing feelings of the people, but, at the same time, to maintain such a control over them as to prevent an improper appointment—he thought such a privilege existed for a most useful purpose, serving as the link between the Church and the Crown which was sanctioned by the law. If that power and authority were exercised for the purposes of political partisanship, he would say such conduct constituted good grounds for investigation; but if it were honestly exercised for the purpose of rewarding young men of merit, who, though they might be unknown to,
 935
 Mr. Clay  said, that, as the question seemed to be reduced to the point of considering which of certain modes of taxation was most expedient, he felt himself bound to declare, that in his opinion the budget of the noble Lord opposite was preferable to that of the hon. Baronet on his side of the House. He could not believe, that this Motion was supported by its promoters on the ground, that it would afford relief to the people at large. Considering the proposition which had been brought forward on a former evening by the noble Marquess who had seconded this Motion, he must look at the Motion of that night as one intended for the exclusive benefit of the agricultural interest. He thought, that his hon. friend, the member for Bridport, had indisputably proved that the taking off the Beer-tax was more calculated to benefit the people than the taking off the Malt-tax. He looked upon those who now proposed this Motion as persons eminently wise in their generation, for they had brought it forward to benefit the class to which they themselves belonged, namely—the agricultural. Now, he put it to the House, whether the Members of that class were entitled to such a boon,—they who were now in possession of the greatest and the most monstrous monopoly that had ever been known in any country in the world. He had that day taken the trouble of making some inquiries respecting that monopoly; and he found, upon comparing the price of grain in bond with the duty which must now be paid before it could be let out of bond, that the agriculturists had a protecting
 905 s s s s s s s s s s
 Sir William Ingilby,  in reply, said, that not a single satisfactory objection had been urged against his budget, even by the right hon. Baronet, the member for Tamworth. He sought the total annihilation of the Malt-tax, and, as he was actuated
 925
 Sir William Ingilby  said, he was quite aware that there were certain expressions which must not be mentioned to "ears polite." He certainly had not asked the hon. Baronet to take out a license for one of these places, but as he meant to tax them, he must be at liberty to allude to them. Taking the number of gentlemen, tradesmen, blacklegs, &c, who frequented these places at 5,000, and charging 10 l l l l l 885 monstrum horrendum ad valorem Gazette. Gazette Gazette. l l l l 886 l 
 
 £ 
 1. An additional duty of 2 s d 415,000 
 2. An advanced duty of 9 s d s d s 237,000 
 3. An additional duty of 2 s l s d s d s s d 2,500,000 
 4. Partial re-enactment of the Beertax, of 6 s s d 1,500,000 
 5. Suppose the number of hells at fifty in the metropolis, at 1,000 l 50,000 
 Take the number of frequenters, including gentlemen, tradesmen, and blacklegs, at 5,000, the certificates, at 10 l 50,000 
 6. To re-enact the Leather-tax, as its partial repeal was scarcely a public benefit 150,000 
 £4,902,000 
 Exact amount of Malt-tax, for year ending 10th October, 1832, was 4,976,694 
 Produce of annexed scale 4,902,000 
 Difference 74,694 
 Estimate of tax on titles 120,000 
 Surplus £45,306 l l 887 l An hon. Member: 888
 Sir William Ingilby  rose for the purpose of bringing forward a question of vast importance, in doing which last year, he had the satisfaction of receiving the support of a majority of the House. He now came to the subject a little better prepared than he had been on that occasion, in consequence of the reply then made to him by the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that it was an improper mode of proceeding for any Gentleman to come down to that House altogether unprepared to propose something as a substitute to meet the deficiency of 4,000,000 l 877 878 ville village. Stanley; Hear, hear 879 880 pro tem. l s d. cries of "Oh! oh!" 881 s s s l s d s 882 l par excellence s s l l l 883 l l l 884
 Mr. Wolryche Whitmore  would trespass on the House but briefly, as another occasion would be presented in the course of the Session in which the present subject could be more deliberately treated. He hoped that the time was not distant when Ministers would themselves bring forward the subject. Unless the produce of India were admitted into the home market, no advantages could be derived from the measures of last year. India opened an infinite field for the sale of the manufactures of this country, and he trusted that the policy of free trade would make these advantages available. The duties upon foreign sugars were now completely prohibitory, and the sugars of the West Indies and the East Indies alone came into our markets. Alterations of the duties must be made, for the West Indies would shortly be unable to afford a sufficient supply. The country would not have been satisfied to vote 20,000,000 l l l l l
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  was happy to perceive that there was a uniformity of opinion amongst all the hon. Members who had addressed the House upon the subject before them. All seemed to agree as to the necessity of adjusting and assimilating the duties at no distant period. There were two points which urged themselves upon the consideration of the House. The first was, the impolicy, if not the inexpediency, of affording protection to any one
 950 951 952
 Mr. Baring  said, as the sugar from the East and West Indies came into competition in the foreign market, it mattered little in that respect what duty was paid. He agreed with the suggestion not to interfere with the subject during the present year; what struck him as most difficult in equalising the duty between East and West India sugar was, that we were dealing with two articles of a different quality—one was in a state more advanced to refined sugar than the other. He entirely concurred in the principle that these two interests should ultimately be placed on exactly the same footing, and he trusted that ultimately the matter would be so arranged. Whilst he was on his legs, he wished to advert to a subject to which his attention had been directed by accounts in the public papers. It was true that we had proceeded triumphantly in putting a stop to the existence of slavery in our own colonies, but, if the accounts in the newspapers were true, and he had no reason to doubt their accuracy, the foreign slave-trade was at present going on to an extent which it was fearful for any friend of humanity to contemplate. He had seen in the course of last week descriptions in the public papers, as to the accuracy of which, perhaps, the right hon. Baronet, the First Lord of the Admiralty would be able officially to inform the House. It was stated that one vessel had been captured by our cruisers with 400 or 500 human beings on board, and another vessel of only seventy-five tons burthen, with 200 slave children on board. If this were the case (and the statement in the public papers was confirmed by private information), those two countries, Spain and Portugal, whom we had paid, and paid largely, to bring into a course of common feeling and common humanity, had shown a disposition to avoid the performance of their engagements, and were carrying on this traffic to an extent, and with a degree of horrible inhumanity, of which he was sure the people of this country were not aware. Having made a sacrifice of 20,000,000 l
 Mr. Ewart Gladstone  implored the House not to take any hasty step, which might add to the dangers by which the colonies were already surrounded. Within the last few days he had received letters from one of those islands which had hitherto been most peaceful, stating that the negroes had risen and attacked, and beaten the whites and committed numerous acts of violence.
 Mr. O' Connell  could not attribute any blame, personally, to the noble Lord; but thought it very desirable that Ministers should be present during the reception of petitions. He had presented many petitions, which he would have wished the noble Lord to have heard, and would have given him notice accordingly, but for the uncertainty as to the time when he might be able to bring them on. Really something ought to be done. The House ought to deliberate, and form some plan for altering the hours of sitting. That House was the only House that did business by night. They should sit in the day; the day should be devoted to business, and the night to repose. The protracted sittings of that House were ruinous to the health of Members, and of no real advantage to the public. When he first came into that House, and he was but a young Member, it sat only four days a-week; now it sat five days, and had sometimes sat six. By a plan which he could propose, their sittings might be confined to three days in the week. The House originally met at seven in the morning, subsequently at nine, then at one in the afternoon; and thus these bad habits had gradually crept upon them. The House ought not to sit after nine o'clock in the evening. No business could be well done after that hour. Speech-making might go on very well, but no real business could be done. After the explanation which had been given, he recommended his hon. friend to withdraw his Motion, and he hoped that either he or some other Member would bring forward a distinct proposition to alter the hours of that House. Thirty or forty Members combining together could certainly compel early adjournments of the House, but that would be a very disagreeable alternative to resort to.
 Mr. Feargus  O'Connor withdrew his Motion.
 Mr. Ruthven , pursuant to notice, rose to move the following Resolution, "That it is expedient to take into consideration the state of the Currency, and the National Debt; so that such modifications may be made of the public burthens of the Country, as may enable the people to sustain the Charges and Establishments necessary for the Public Service." He thought no subject of greater importance could be brought before the House. The Army Estimates were much greater now than they were in the olden and better times, before the change had taken place in the currency, which had, while it left the nominal burthens the same, nearly doubled their actual weight. The National Debt, too, had attained its present enormous amount under a depreciated currency, and it was paid in full weight. Whenever anything was said respecting the National Debt or the Currency, there was always an attempt to get up an alarm, and to raise an outcry about the national faith. The object of his Motion was to afford an opportunity of answering some of the very unfounded charges and insinuations which had been thrown out against certain persons on this subject. He alluded particularly to some expressions and sentiments which had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, the member for Tamworth. When a proposition with reference to the National Debt was made by his hon. colleague a few nights since, the right hon. Baronet threw himself into a great passion, and expressed himself in terms not of the most temperate description. How great then was his surprise, with the right hon. Baronet's denunciation ringing in his ears, to find the right hon. Baronet thus expressing himself in the debate of last night. He said, 'In his opinion, the agricultural interest would have a much better chance of obtaining relief by maintaining public credit, than by pressing for such a reduction of the revenue as would endanger it.
 960 * l
 Mr. O'Connell  hoped his hon. colleague would not press his Motion.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  could only speak of the subject which had been adverted to by the hon. member for Oldham, from recollection, for the official papers relating to it from the Ordnance department were only laid upon the table at the end of last Session. His recollection of the matter was, that Mr. Burgess had been employed on the Rideau canal. Some disputes respecting accounts had arisen between Mr. Burgess and the Ordnance Department. Mr. Burgess claiming a very considerable sum as his due, and the Ordnance Department conceiving that he was, on the contrary, in their debt, an investigation before a board of military officers was set on foot spontaneously by the Ordnance Department, who promised to bear all the expense of the inquiry; but, during its progress, Burgess and some of his witnesses disappeared, and the accounts, consequently, remained unsettled up to this period. Mr. Burgess, it had been since ascertained, was at present in the United States. In the course of the inquiry, a medical certificate was brought forward, which he was ready to produce, if required, that Mr. Burgess had laboured under the influence of insanity from drinking ardent spirits. Of this fact he (Mr. Stanley) believed he could bring positive proof. Into the question of the military expenditure of the colonies generally, he would not at present enter, because he did not believe the discussion would lead to any satisfactory result; but he could assure the gallant Colonel (Davies), that he (Mr. Stanley), in common with the rest of his Majesty's Government, would give the gallant Officer every assistance in his power to elucidate the whole of the accounts and the whole military expenditure of the colonies, and he thought he should be able to show the Committee that the expenses were not only not extravagant, but that, as far as the military service was
 963
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  felt satisfied, from what he had observed during the course of the clear address of his right hon. friend, the Secretary at War, and the speech of the hon. member for Middlesex, that the Committee would be of opinion that the proposed reduction was not only unnecessary, but would be, in its effects, most mischievous. He could not refrain, however, from expressing his opinion, that, as the hon. member for Middlesex had raised no objection to the military establishment of the country, but merely to the number of men constituting the forces, that the hon. Member's real objection amounted to this—that let the Government bring forward what Estimates they pleased—let the Government effect what reductions were practicable, the hon. Gentleman would oppose them; for, it appeared to be part of the business and the profession of the hon. Gentleman to compete with the Government in economy. Though there was a diminution in the present Estimates from those of last year of little less than 300,000 l l l l l 983 l l l l l 984 985 l
 Colonel Evans  contended, that if the military force kept up in the colonies was based upon population, there was no reason why the colonies should have 33,000 men to protect them, when 22,000 were found enough for Ireland. He particularly wished to know, also, why garrisons were maintained in islands, as if we had no navy? With respect to Ireland, he thought, that if the Coercion Bill were worth anything, it ought to have enabled the Government to dispense with keeping up so large a force there. The noble Lord, (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) in 1822, had said, that our colonies were to be considered as valuable either for commercial purposes, or for keeping up
 986 on dit
 Colonel Dames  could not support his hon. friend's Amendment, which he hoped would be withdrawn.
 Colonel Davies  said, that the West Indians would be very little benefited by anything that had been done, if the restrictions at present placed on their exports and imports were not taken off. The bonus of five per cent on refined sugar was not given to the planters, who derived no advantage from it, but to the refiner. As to the injury done to the Indians, it was well known that the government of the Company was equal and mild compared with that of the native chiefs.
 Major Beauclerk  was convinced, that the statement which had that evening been laid before the House would give more satisfaction to the country than any act which had proceeded from the Government for a long time. He had not been a flatterer of the Government, and would not give them his support on the present question, unless he believed they were acting on sound principles; and really when he found his hon. friend the member for Middlesex coming forward with a proposal for the immediate reduction of 9,000 men, he could not go so far as his hon. friend. The consequence would be, that the young men would leave the army, and the old would remain in it, and in a year or two they would be obliged to give pensions to the old men, who would be disabled from further service. The conduct of Ministers on this occasion had been throughout manly, open, and fair, though, if no further progress were made next year, he should be as ready to oppose Ministers as he was now to tender them his support.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that with reference to the experiments of Dr. Ure, he had stated, when the subject was under discussion last year, that the results should be laid before the House, which had since been
 947 s l
 Mr. Ellice  said, that he would follow the advice of the hon. member for Middlesex, and proceed at once to the business before the House by the shortest possible process; nor should he waste the time of the House, he thought, in introducing it by the very few observations which he conceived necessary for the explanation of the Army Estimates of the present year. The shortest process, he fancied, would be at once to institute a comparison between the present and the Estimates of last year. He would, in the outset, take some credit to the Government, while he congratulated the House on the altered circumstances of the country, which had enabled him to propose a very considerable reduction in the amount of the military force. The present, he believed, would be the least Estimates which had been proposed to the House since the Union with Ireland. It was intended to reduce the military force of the country by about 8,000 men, so that the whole amount of the army would be gradually reduced to 70,355 men. This reduction was to be effected by the mode recommended in the Committee of last year—viz. by not filling up the vacancies as they occurred in the army. This reduction, however, included but three officers,
 964 l l l 965 s d l l l l bonâ fide 966 l 967 l 968 l 969 970 l l 971 l 972 l l l Cobbett 973 l l 974 975 l l l l
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  rose to bring forward the Motion, of which he had given notice, relative to the non-attendance of his Majesty's Ministers, during the early sittings of the House. He complained of the inconvenience and loss of time that resulted from their absence, and the consequent difficulty that was thrown in the way of the public business, of which no part was more important than the petitions of the people. The hon. Gentleman reminded the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) that he had given a pledge, when the present arrangement was first proposed, that one or other of the Ministers should be present during the early sitting, and appealed to him whether he meant to redeem that pledge, or whether it was to be thrown into the general receptacle of unredeemed pledges? He knew the noble Lord would smile the House out of countenance, and that he would have no opportunity, or, if he had an opportunity, would not be able to efface the impression of that smile; but he called upon hon. Members for ever to hold their tongues as to the absence of Ministers, unless they supported him now. He should never bring the question for-
 957
 Mr. Lyall  said, that at this time, when we were entering upon a new system with regard to India, it was important that Parliament should turn its attention to the conditions upon which the manufactures of that great empire were to be received into this country, and our manufactures admitted in India. It was important that we should declare, and the declaration could not be made too soon—that our relations of commerce, and all our intercourse should be founded upon those principles of justice, without which it would be impossible to conduct the affairs of our eastern possessions satisfactorily or safely. Let it not he forgotten, that notwithstanding the advantages which we derived from our commerce with India, we received from that country a tribute of 3,000,000 l l 956
 Sir Henry Hardinge  did not think it his duty as a public man to cripple the efficiency of the army by unnecessary reductions. His Majesty's Ministers were, in his opinion, the best judges of what the number of the army should be, as the proper consideration of the question de-
 987 minimum l l l l 988 l l l l l l l 989
 Mr. Warburton  regretted the course taken by Ministers on this occasion, not only on account of the injustice done to the East Indians, but of the injury it would occasion to England itself. According to the report made by that distinguished chemist, Dr. Ure, there was no longer any doubt that the West Indians received a bonus of 5 s l
 Mr. Ruddell Todd  said, that equal justice ought to be done to the East Indians and to other Colonists. If, however, the noble Lord would say he intended, within a certain definite time, to do this justice to the East Indians, this would be some satisfaction to them who were at any rate entitled to hear some reasons for the present proceedings, and some defined hopes of speedy justice.
 Mr. Hume  put it to the consideration of the House, whether any animal strength could carry them through the present hours of sitting. They began in the morning, and went on until two of the morning following. He thought, that they should
 959
 Mr. Hume  had heard with the greatest satisfaction the speech of the right hon. the Secretary at War; and he must in candour state, that, during his whole Parliamentary life, a more explicit, a more open, and more manly exposition, never fell from a public servant of the Crown. No estimate could be more fairly and candidly explained. The opening statements could not be quarrelled with. The details were given in a manner that must have shown they were given with a view to avoid anything like obscurity or misconception. He should give the right hon. Secretary full credit for his desire to reduce the national bur-
 976 l l l l 977 l l l l l 978 979 l l l l l 980 981 982
 Mr. Hume  observed, that the hon. Mover did not seem to have been well understood. The argument of his hon. friend was, that as there had been a great change in the standard, that change ought to be made applicable to the army expenditure. He hoped, however, that his hon. friend would not press the Motion on the present occasion.
 Mr. Patrick Stewart  begged to remind the House that the East-India sugar-grower was enabled, owing to the low rate of labour in India, to send his produce into the market on far more advantageous terms than the West-India planter. He contended that there ought to be no further reduction of duties upon East-India sugars. He was ready to acknowledge that the West-India Colonies had met with very fair and just treatment from that House in the last Session, and he wished to see ultimately a fair competition between the Colonies; for he was willing to confess, that it was only in point of time and circum-
 949
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  hoped that Ministers would act impartially, and hold out fair hopes to the people of India. The recent regulations with respect to the settling of Europeans in India would have no beneficial effect unless they were accompanied by a more liberal policy with respect to the trade with those regions. The people of India would soon grow impatient of speaking to that House through the medium of humble petitions, and would feel that they were entitled to be heard in defence of their rights.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  had hoped that after 20,000,000 l 945
 Dr. Lushington  said, that the entire suppression of the slave-trade could never be effected by any effort, however strenuous, exercised on the part of the British Government, only because, in his judgment, the treaties entered into with foreign powers were still so defective and illusory that it was utterly impossible to effect a complete destruction of the trade, by simply
 954 955
 Mr. Gisborne  also declined supporting the Amendment, though he disputed the doctrines put forth by the Secretary for the Colonies. The speech of the hon. Secretary-at-War had convinced him of the inexpediency of acceding to his hon. friend's Amendment.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that as the military expenditure of the colonies was now under the consideration of the House, he would call its attention to the case of Mr. Burgess, who had presented a petition to it last Session. On that occasion the noble Lord opposite—acting, no doubt, upon information which he believed to be true—had made certain allegations to the House, accusing Mr. Burgess of insanity. Now, he had received from Mr. Burgess proofs of his sanity, sobriety and respectability. Mr. Burgess was not a native of Canada, but of Dorsetshire. He offered to dis-
 962 l l
 Mr. Cobbett  said, Sir, I hope yon will not leave it to-night. [ Loud laughter l
 Mr. Cobbett  again rose, and was about to address the House, when
 Mr. Cobbett  said, the hon. and learned member for the Tower Hamlets had made allusion to the United States of America. He (Mr. Cobbett) admitted it was good to set an example of humanity, but not to show such a degree of anxiety as almost to force other people to follow it. He did not like the allusion to the United States in the hon. and learned Member's speech. There were 2,000,000 of slaves in the United States who could not he emancipated—the thing was impossible. He was sorry that anything should be said in the House which would tend to make the people of the United States believe that what had been done was for the purpose of throwing them into confusion, and creating discontent amongst their slaves, and he regretted that anything should be said which could have that tendency. However, as we had set the United States the example of abolishing slavery, they seemed determined in return to abolish paper-money, and that would be an ample compensation.
 Mr. Ewart  thought the policy adopted by Government towards the East Indies most unwise and unjust. That country had for many years groaned under the cruel oppression of the East-India Company; and if the present proposition were adopted, it would not have much less reason to complain of the system of legislation adopted towards it by the English Government. It was time, however, to redress the wrongs of that much-injured country, for it cried aloud for redress, and it would make its cries heard. It had been truly said by the hon. Member, that the manufactures of India had been superseded by the manufactures of Manchester. The East Indians had a particular right to complain of the gross favouritism which was apparent in the different amount of duties charged upon their exports and the West-Indian exports. While West Indian sugar was only charged with a duty of 24 s s d d s d s s s d 946
 The Speaker  said, the hon. Member had already spoken on the subject.
 The Speaker  observed, that he was surprised the hon. Member should complain of the lateness of the hour, when he had mainly contributed to render it so.
 Sir James Graham  had the greatest
 953
 Sir Robert Peel  hoped, that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Ewart) would persevere in his intention of submitting the present highly important subject to the grave consideration of the House, in order that they might clearly understand the situation of the parties interested in its adjustment. As far as he could comprehend its bearings, an act of greater injustice towards the natives of India could not be done than to continue upon their produce the unequal rate of duty at present levied. Although an attempt to establish discriminating duties between two countries might not by the one aggrieved be considered as an open declaration of war, yet it would not fail to
 948
 Mr. Hutt  thought it a mistaken principle to attempt to govern a people by laws measured by the latitude and longitude in which they might live. The Colonists, whether East or West Indian, were subjects of the King just as the inhabitants of this country, and they were justly entitled to the same consideration with ourselves. If, however, Government persisted in neglecting so great a nation as the East Indian, they must not wonder at any ill effects which might result.
 Lord Althorp  had already stated that it was solely in consequence of the position of West-Indian affairs at the present moment he was withheld from proposing an alteration in reference to the proportions in which the sugar duties were levied; and he did not hesitate to say, that as soon as the success of the measure of last Session was established, it would be most unjust to allow the present unequal rate of duty on East-India, as compared with West-India, produce to continue.
 Lord Althorp  was well aware of what was due to the East Indians, and was inclined to give them that due, and all that they required was time to see the working of the Act passed last Session with reference to the West-Indian Colonists. He thought it would not be advisable to increase the pressure on the latter Colonies till the effects of that measure were seen. He repeated that the present proposition was merely for a temporary purpose, and he hoped the House would agree to it.
 Lord Althorp  said, he had undoubtedly made the promise stated by the hon. Member, and he might appeal to the House whether he had not, at the commencement of last Session, endeavoured to fulfil it. He had attended at the morning sittings for some time; but he fairly admitted, that he found it impossible to continue it. The bodily exertion was too much. This was not the first time the matter had been discussed. He had, when it was before alluded to, explained the circumstances of the ease; and he certainly understood it to be the general impression of the Gentlemen who spoke on that occasion, that they did not expect him to continue an exertion which he had found prejudicial to his health, and to his ability to attend to the public business. He admitted, that, when any question was to be brought forward relating to a department with which any particular member of the Government was connected, the presence of that individual member of the Government would be of great use, and would save considerable time; but the chances were, that, if notice were not given of the question to be brought forward, a satisfactory answer could not be given. He could state, on his own part, and he was sure he might say, also, on the part of his colleagues, that, whenever any Gentleman had a petition to present, to which he wished to call the attention of any member of the Administration, it should always meet with due attention. He did not believe that any hon. Member had hitherto made any such application, and failed of receiving that attention to which he was entitled. Undoubtedly, if it were
 958
 Lord Althorp  expressed his conviction, that the House did not expect him to enter largely into the subject touched upon by the hon. Gentleman. Never, indeed, had so large a question been introduced by so small a speech. He regretted that the hon. Gentleman had not more fully ex-
 * 961
 Lord Althorp  said, that in rising to propose the continuance of the Sugar Duties agreeably to the notice he had given, it would not he necessary for him to trouble the Committee with any details. It was not his intention to suggest any alteration in those duties; taking into consideration the general pressure of taxation, he did not think that any reduction of them would be expedient, nor would it he wise to introduce any change in the proportions in which they were levied. The great measure of last year which was yet only in the in-
 944
 Mr. O'Connell  had stated on Friday, that there was a rumour prevalent in Ireland, that a person named Dundas had been improperly appointed to the office of stipendiary magistrate in the colonies. A person of that name, and he understood the person now appointed to an office in the colonies, had been charged with peculation to a large amount, in the supply of certain articles
 1000
 Mr. Stanley  said, that this subject had first been brought under his attention on Friday, when the hon. and learned member for Dublin asked if he had appointed a person of the name of Dumas, or Dundas, from the constabulary force in Ireland to the office of colonial stipendiary magistrate; adding that such a person had been dismissed for peculation from the Irish constabulary. The name of Dumas being rather remarkable, and there being one or two persons of that name in Armagh, he had answered that, to the best of his belief, no person had been appointed a colonial magistrate who had served in the police force, either in England or Ireland, and that he would not knowingly appoint any one who had been guilty of such offences as those laid to the charge of the
 1001 1002
 Mr. O'Connell  was perfectly satisfied with the right hon. Gentleman's explanation, which had met with the entire approbation of the House; but he begged to remind the right hon. Gentleman, that the offence committed by Mr. Dundas was an offence committed against Government, and not against an individual. He had forged receipts of the payment of the tolls on Wexford-bridge, for the passage of the Police, and he had, in various ways, put 6,000 l l
 Mr. Tennyson  greatly regretted that the Bill brought in by the noble Paymaster of the Forces, was not of a more extensive nature, and that his Majesty's Speech did not express something like a recommendation to introduce some measure for the entire removal of the disabilities under which Dissenters laboured. Judging from the measure brought forward by the noble Lord, judging also from the measure of Irish Church Reform passed during the last Session, he greatly feared that nothing satisfactory to the feelings of the Dissenters would be done by his Majesty's Government.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he had received many petitions of a similar nature from Dissenters, and letters calling upon him to support their prayer. He concurred with the hon. Member who had last spoken, that the Bill introduced by the noble Lord was totally unsatisfactory. With respect to the observation made by the hon. member for Lincoln regarding the Universities, he must observe, that nine-tenths of these institutions were founded with property left for the relief of the suffering souls in purgatory, by the celebration of mass, and other Roman Catholic ceremonies. Now, unless the Government could by an Act of Parliament clear out purgatory, they did away with the intention of the donors, by converting these
 996
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  entirely concurred in the prayer for granting relief to Dissenters from those grievances under which they laboured, but he certainly did not go to the extent that some of those petitions went, particularly as far as regarded the separation of Church and State. This was a most mistaken view of sound policy, and if the House were to act upon this recommendation, it would do more injury to the Dissenters themselves, and to the body of the community, than any other measure. He agreed with the hon. and learned member for Dublin that if the measures of relief were to be confined to the Bill brought in by the noble Lord, the Paymaster of the Forces, he should be concerned that it did not go further. He had, however, reason to believe that a measure granting more advantages to the Dissenters, and remedying more grievances, would be soon submitted to the House. A great deal had been said about the compulsory payments of Church-rates, and he concurred in the propriety of putting an end to them; but there was a circumstance which had come to his knowledge, so highly creditable to the character of the Dissenters, that he would take the liberty to state it to the House. In the parish of Saint Martin-in-the-Fields, the Church-rates had fallen into arrear, and a large sum of money was due. The Vestry did not think it right to press a rate for it, but trusted to be able to make it up by voluntary contributions. The plan was tried; the whole, or nearly the whole of this sum was raised, and the collectors informed him that no class of persons contributed more liberally or generously than the Dissenters.
 Mr. Andrew Johnstone  was convinced that the great body of Dissenters had a very different view of these matters as connected with the Establishment, and that their intention was to strip the Church of all its endowments. The hon. Member (Mr. Harvey) said, that the Dissenters did not pray for, but demanded, equality.
 Colonel Wood  said, the mess allowances were given to officers of the Line under peculiar circumstances. There were some of them who had no income besides their pay. Thus circumstanced they could not partake of wine at the mess, and it was painful to see them under the necessity of allowing the bottle to pass without filling their glasses. This was represented to the Prince Regent, and it was at first proposed to increase their pay. On reflection, however, it was thought better to give a moderate allowance of wine to enable them to drink two or three glasses at dinner. On this account it was called the Prince Regent's allowance. No person surely would wish to see persons shut out entirely from the army because they had no income but their pay. The increase of pay in the army did not
 1017
 Mr. O'Connell  moved, that the Chairman should report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he was one of those who thought it was high time to make a stand in order to compel such an arrangement as would enable that House to get through the business of the nation during the day. He did not stand alone on this point; indeed, so long as he had done so, he did not venture to persevere; but he was now supported by fifteen or twenty hon. Members, who were ready, in their turn, to follow up his proposition, if he was defeated. All he wanted was, that some reasonable arrangement should be made with reference to the disposal of the public business, and especially that no vote of the public money should be gone into after ten o'clock at night.
 Mr. O'Connell  was equally willing to abide by the decision of such hon. Members as attended the House as continually and regularly as he himself did, but he would not be bound by such a majority as Ministers could muster to get through such important business at so late an hour.
 The Chairman,  accordingly, put the Amendment, that 81,248 l s d l s d
 Colonel Davies  said, that the Governor of Lower Canada received, altogether, 9,036 l l l l l
 Colonel Davies  regretted, that any improper comparison should be drawn between the situation of the soldier and that of the labouring man. He agreed with his right hon. and gallant friend (Sir H. Hardinge) in attachment to the service to which they belonged. The question, as stated by the hon. member for Oldham, was, whether the soldier had not more than sufficient pay. If it should be the opinion of the House that that was the case, still it was impossible to make any alterations at present, as a bargain had been made with the soldiers, and he would fulfil the contract to the utmost letter. He did not, however, see that there would be any injustice in making a bargain hereafter with the soldiers when they enlisted, that they should receive less pay. That, however, was entirely a question of expediency. Formerly it was the custom to pay the soldiers once a month, but they, with their usual imprudence, generally squandered all away in the course of a few days; the consequence was, that the present system was adopted. At present he had no hesitation in saying,
 1008
 Colonel Davies  wished to ask his gallant friend, whether he had not been with the Prussian army in the field, and not in time of peace? He (Colonel Davies) had reason to believe, that, in time of peace, the Prussian army were served with coarse brown bread, which British soldiers would throw away. He also believed that the authority referred to his gallant friend was in error as to the situation of the French soldier. He (Colonel Davies) believed, that the French soldiers were in a much worse situation than the English soldiery.
 Sir John Byng  expressed his concurrence in the observations which had fallen from the right hon. the Secretary at War. He (Sir John Byng) knew enough of the noble Lord, the Commander-in-Chief, who possessed much good sense and right feeling, to be satisfied, that if any reduction could be made, consistent with the interests of the nation and the efficiency of the service, that noble Lord would make them; and such reduction would be better effected by the noble Lord and the right hon. the Secretary at War, than by any resolution which might originate in the House.
 Sir John Byng  thought, that he was as competent as any one to give the House good information respecting the mess-table of the Guards, and the advantages enjoyed by officers of the Line as contra-distinguished from those of the Guards. He was bound to say, that the officers of the Guards considering their duties, were not as well paid as those of the Line. Among other things, every seven battalions of the Line were allowed a sum of 1,200 l
 Lord John Russell  had admitted last year, that it would be advantageous to consolidate the departments connected with the army, if it could be done with safety. He thought, however, that the Pay-office ought to be distinct from the office which gave order for the payment to be made. The hon. Member (Mr. Hume) might speak of former times and former years; but there was nothing then of the regularity or certainty which was attained at present. On the contrary, in the year 1797, for instance, no person who had held the office of Accountant-General was able to obtain a settlement of his accounts for several years after his retirement from office.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  observed, that there was one principle contained in the Bill introduced by the noble Paymaster of the
 997
 Mr. Harvey  said, there was nothing so ungrateful to the ears of Dissenters as the word "toleration;" it should be exploded altogether—perfect equality was what the Dissenters aspired to. All Christians should be put upon an equal footing. He should like to hear reasons for saying that the separation of Church and State would be prejudicial to Dissenters. No argument had been used to prove that assertion. With regard to the property of the Church, it was not the wish of Dissenters to spoliate it, for Dissenters themselves had an interest in preserving such property. It suited the purpose of many to say that the Dissenters required spoliation. Quite the contrary. The fact was, that many Dissenters' establishments were as largely endowed as Churches. They were, therefore,
 998
 Mr. Ellice  thought it unnecessary, after the discussion which had taken place on Friday evening last, on the subject of these Estimates, and after the House had voted the number of men for the effective service, to do more than put the first vote into the hands of the Chairman. At the
 1003 l s d
 Mr. Ellice  trusted that the hon. Members would not persist in a discussion of this kind, when it was perfectly obvious that it could not lead to any result. For his own part, he was satisfied that it would be impossible next year, or, indeed, for many years to come, to make such a reduction as the hon. member for Oldham desired.
 Mr. Ellice  said, that he could prove by calculations what he had stated on Friday night, that the Guards, as a corps, including all their officers, cost no more than an equal number of the Infantry of the Line, making allowance for the penny additional which was given to them in consequence of the extra duties. On a comparison of the expense of seven battalions of the Guards with seven battalions of the Line, both containing about 4,640 bayonets, it appeared, that the Guards cost 210,508 l l s d l l s d 1010 d
 Mr. Ellice,  in proposing the next vote, observed, that there was an increase of 2,242 l s d l l 1020 l 1021
 Mr. Ellice  moved, that there should "be granted to His Majesty a sum not exceeding 90,313 l s d
 Mr. Ellice  said, that after what had fallen from his right hon. friend, the member for Dundee, it was necessary for him to say a few words, in order that the House might exactly see what they were called upon to do by the hon. member for Middlesex. The present Estimate for officers at head quarters amounted to 13,117 l l l 1031
 Mr. Ellice  said, that a Committee having been appointed to examine these matters up-stairs, he should not enter into them minutely upon this occasion. His gallant friend had enumerated the allowances of the noble Lord, the Governor of Quebec, which had been granted to him for other services, and had nothing whatever to do with the duties of his Government. With regard to the salary, it must be remembered that the state expected to be kept up by the Governor, made heavy demands upon his expenditure. He knew that, in the case of Sir James Kempt, who had all the large allowances now complained of, he brought not one shilling home as the produce of his office. His gallant friend must not suppose that the accustomed regulations which had been observed by Governors in our Colonies, or the habits of the people amongst whom they had been observed, were to be changed in the twinkling of an eye, at the bidding of a Committee, without producing lamentable and dangerous consequences. He contended, that as long as the present state
 1023 l
 Mr. Ellice  begged to deny the assertion of the right hon. Baronet, that he was coquetting either with the hon. member for Middlesex or any one else. He was merely performing his duty as well as he was able; and neither the remarks of the right hon. and gallant Officer, nor the observations of the hon. member for Middlesex, though delivered in a very different spirit, should deter him from discharging what he conceived to be his duty to the House and to the country.
 Mr. Ellice  was sure, that it would be a satisfaction to his hon. friend, the member for Middlesex, to learn that the vote of men for this year did not go to the extent which he supposed. He had mentioned to his hon. friend before, that there was, in point of fact, a considerable reduction in that vote, inasmuch as all the colonial corps were included in the Estimate of this year, which was not the case before the year 1828. If his hon. friend would take that circumstance into his consideration, he would find that the excess of the number of men voted this year over the number of men voted in 1822 was not 10,000, as he supposed, but only 5,000. He was sure, that the annunciation of that circumstance would give some satisfaction to his hon. friend, the member for Middlesex, and still more to those hon. Gentlemen who had voted with him on Friday night. Referring to the remarks which his hon. friend had made on the expense of the recruiting department, he observed that he partly concurred in them. Low as the Estimate for recruiting was at present, the expense appeared too high under existing; circumstances. He had represented to the proper authorities, that such was his opinion. He could not, however, forget, that if we stopped the recruiting department entirely, we might, at a future time, be put to greater expense in re-establishing it. He could assure his hon. friend, that he was most anxious to reduce that expense as low as possible. The levy-money for recruits was fixed at 4 l s 1016 l l
 Mr. Ellice  thought, the better way would be to leave the matter altogether in his hands. He must, however, say, that he had looked into the case with some attention, and that if he had not been convinced that 4,000 l
 Mr. Ellice  thought it very hard that, after doing all he could to satisfy every party, he should be taunted on the one side by the right hon. Baronet, and on the other by his hon. friend, the member
 1018 Hon. Member:
 Mr. Ellice  was most anxious to effect every possible economy in the management of the public accounts. Arrangements for simplifying them were in progress; but it was impossible to effect all kinds of changes and improvements on a sudden. He felt bound to state this, and as the Government had some measures for an extensive plan of consolidation in contemplation, he hoped the hon. Member would not give the House the trouble of dividing on the question.
 Mr. Ellice  moved, "That a sum not exceeding 6,977 l s d
 Mr. Finch  admitted, that there was no doubt that Parliament had the power to enact any measures as regarded the Church that it pleased; but he, for one, held that the property of the Church ought to be deemed as sacred as the private property of any gentleman who heard him. The property which had been bequeathed to the Universities was bequeathed to them for a particular and specific purpose; and to interfere with that appropriation—to divert it from that purpose—would, in his opinion, be complete spoliation. He also thought that it was the duty—the bounden. duty—of every Christian State to provide, and that most liberally, for the religious instruction of the people.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  would only observe, in answer to what had fallen from the hon. Member who had just sat down, that the increase in the pay of the soldiers of the British army took place in 1797. That was previously to the currency being depreciated, so that the argument of the hon. Gentleman fell to the ground. With respect to what had fallen from his gallant friend, the member for Worcester, (Colonel Davies) he would only observe, that the practice of distributing the brown bread he had alluded to, to the soldiers of the Prussian army, had long since ceased.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  would observe, in reply to his gallant friend, that he had been for some time attached to the Prussian army, and he would say without hesitation, that the Prussian soldier was quite as well off as the British soldier. He could also state, on the evidence of a high military authority examined before a Committee of that House, that the French soldier, if anything, was better off' than the British soldier. A more loyal set of men than the British army did not exist, and they were deserving of every encouragement.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  was surprised to hear the speech of the hon. member for Oldham, and, above all, as he understood the hon. Member had formerly belonged to the profession of which he had the
 1006
 Sir Henry Hardinge  observed, that the right hon. Secretary was merely coquetting with the hon. member for Middlesex.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  assured the right hon. Secretary that no contractor would be found who could provide a proper mess-table at the rate of allowance proposed. In this he knew every officer in the Guards would agree with him.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  considered that the sum now proposed to be voted for the mess-table of the officers of the Guards would be wholly insufficient for the purpose. He, therefore, hoped, the right hon. Secretary (Mr. Ellice) would look into the matter again, and correct the error into which he had fallen in this respect. It should be recollected, that the officers of the Line had allowances, such as coals, candles,—,which were not made to the officers of the Guards; and that if the officers of both forces were to receive the same advantages the officers of the Guards, instead of 6,000 l l l
 Sir Henry Hardinge  must repeat that, if the officers of the Guards were allowed the advantages possessed by the officers of the Line, instead of 6,000 l l
 Sir Henry Hardinge  concurred with the right hon. Gentleman opposite, that the subject of the present Amendment would be much fitter for discussion in the Committee up-stairs than in that House; and moreover it was to be borne in mind, that the matter had been discussed last year before a Select Committee. He contended, that, in the case of a distinguished officer like Lord Aylmer, it was too much for the House to be called upon to calculate the allowance for his distinguished services in the Peninsula, and his pension for the wounds he had received, as part of his emoluments as Governor of Quebec. It was notorious that these offices were paid so as to be a burthen rather than a profit. He would state, as an instance, that of the Governor of Barba does, who, on going out there, found that it was quite impossible for him, upon the pay which he received, to maintain his rank, and associate with the planters, and who, therefore, at once signified his desire to retire; begging only to be reimbursed for his out-fit, which had cost him a considerable sum. He was sure it would be found, that the impolitic plan of cutting down the salaries of the military Governors in our Colonies to such a low degree would be attended with this bad consequence (than which none could be worse), that it would be impossible to get officers of distinguished merit and ability to take those governments, seeing that the pay was so extremely inadequate. He was certain he
 1024 1025 1026 l 1027 l l l l l
 Mr. Poulter : I rise to present several petitions from numerous and most respectable bodies of Dissenters of different denominations, residing in the towns of Shaftesbury, Mere, Birdbush, Henstridge, and Stalbridge, in the counties of Wilts and Dorset. The prayer of these petitions is to be relieved from various disabilities and grievances which still oppress the great class of the dissenting interest in this country. One of the principal objects of the petitioners is to be exempted from paying Church-rates. There is certainly a great distinction between the Church-rate and the general property of the Church; the latter, though mixed up with the property of others, being quite distinct from it as to tithe, while the former is a direct tax upon it. It would be difficult to say, that persons not adhering to the Church should be permitted to refuse this payment, because such a right would operate as an inducement to abandon the Church; but I am decidedly of opinion, that if this rate is to be maintained, it ought, under just restrictions and regulations, to be applicable to the repairs of all legal places of religious worship within the parish. Nothing short of this can, or ought to satisfy the just demands of the Dissenters, if the principle of perfect religious liberty is to be maintained. The petitioners also
 999
 Mr. Hume  considered, that the officers of the Guards ought to be very well content with 19 s
 Mr. Hume  was very much surprised at the extraordinary speech which had just been delivered by the hon. member for Birmingham. He wished to know, whether the hon. Member was in earnest, as his speech, and especially the first part of it, would justify, not a large diminution, but a large increase in the amount of the British army. If we were to keep up an army to re-establish the Poles at Warsaw, and to protect the Grand Seignor at Constantinople, no one could be rash enough to say, that our present army would be sufficient. What did the hon. Member mean? What did the hon. Member wish the Government should do? In his opinion, his hon. friend, the Secretary at War, might have pushed his reductions even further than he had already carried them, but the hon. member for Birmingham was of a different opinion, and would not give his hon. friend the slightest credit for the very proper reductions which he had already made. From the arguments which the hon. Member had employed that evening, it might be supposed that he was anxious to drive the country into war in order to get out a deluge of paper. He was sorry, that the hon. Member had not reflected upon the melancholy consequences which had resulted to the country from the deluge of paper with which it was inundated during the last war. He was happy to say, that very few Members could be found to concur with the hon. Member in the dangerous doctrines which he had propounded on that subject. We had already paid severely enough for having once permitted that deluge. We had got out of that scrape, at present, though we had been pretty well scotched in the struggle; and he sincerely hoped, that we should not be foolish enough to retrace our steps and plunge again into the evils from which we had escaped, as it were, by a miracle. What had the hon. Member been sent into that House for? Was it not to promote economy? [" No 1013 A laugh l l l 1014 l l l l l l 1015
 Mr. Hume  said, that it might appear strange for a civilian to deliver an opinion on military matters; but, however this might be, he felt justified in the course he was about to take. He must say, that he did not feel the least surprise at the answer which the right hon. Secretary had received from the Commander-in-Chief, for well he knew that no application had ever yet been made to the head of an office respecting changes, that was not met by a statement that no changes were necessary; and, for this reason, he thought that the Secretary at War should have a seat in the Cabinet, for the purpose of carrying his own views into effect. They were bound, however, notwithstanding the opinion expressed to the contrary, by the Commander-in-Chief, to carry the recommendation of the Committee of last year into practice. That some change was called for in this department, no one could deny. It was not only most unfair, but, he would add, it was decidedly unjust towards the service generally, for one set of men, no matter what their qualifications might be, to enter upon an office of this description, which ought to change hands in order to reward merit, and there remain for life. It was understood that the practice adopted in the navy should be carried into the army, and that, instead of Staff appointments being fixed for life, they should be changed every four or five years. He should like to know from the right hon. Gentleman opposite why this had not been done, and why all, whose services were equally meritorious, should not be equally eligible to those situations which were deemed most honourable, as well as most lucrative. There was also another point which he wished to notice, and that was, the fees which were exacted from officers obtaining appointments for their patents. In many cases, those fees amounted to a whole year's salary, and this, he could not help saying, was very oppressive. A comparison of the expenses of the State in 1792 and 1834, would show a very great increase at the latter period. In 1792, the total charge for Great Britain was 10,408 l l l 1022 l
 Mr. Hume  contended, that there was not an account which might not be paid by the Treasury instead of the Pay-office. He was sure that there were no two accountants in England who would not say that a more incongruous and roundabout way of settling the public accounts could not be invented.
 Mr. Hume  said, it was absurd to keep up
 1034 l l
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  was inclined to think, that the pay of the whole army required revision. The salaries of the highest Officers of the State had been reduced, and he saw no reason why the pay of the soldier should not be lowered.
 Mr. Methuen  protested against the opinions set forth by the hon. member for Oldham. He believed that it would be found, on inquiry, that, although the labourers in the country might not always be so well and regularly fed, they received more money than the soldiers, and their wages were always regularly paid. The hon. member for Oldham had selected a subject very different from others which he might have better brought forward; but he did not believe that there was any other hon. Member present, who had fairly considered the subject, who would think that the soldiers were overpaid. The hon. Member had dwelt on the sufferings endured by the labourers as compared with the soldiers. Now, if they compared many classes of labourers, such as boot makers, shoemakers, painters,&, it would be found that they were much better paid than soldiers. If the situation of the soldier was compared with that of the servant in a gentleman's family, it would be found, that the amount of the board wages of the latter were considerably more than the pay of the former. In his opinion the soldier was not overpaid.
 Mr. Potter  presented a Petition from a congregation of Dissenters, assembling for religious worship in Hope Chapel, Wigan, praying for relief. They expressed their conviction that religious associations should depend for support upon the voluntary contributions of their own members. They complained of the great hardship and serious inconvenience arising from the want of a legal mode for the registration of births, marriages, and deaths. The petitioners thought they ought to be allowed the use of parochial cemeteries which were public property; they also considered their exclusion from the national schools and universities as very unjust. As regarded the payment of Church-rates, he considered the Dissenters had just grounds of complaint, and he trusted the House would at no distant period relieve them. In many parishes the opposition to them had been successful, not by illegal means, but by a vote of the vestry; two instances of this occurred at Christ Church, Surrey, one in May, and the other in July, and the opposition was so general that there was a considerable majority, not only by single votes, but by plurality of votes under Sturges Bourne's Act. The Church was for three weeks without sexton, organist, and other persons generally employed; even the clock was stopped. A few weeks back every tiling was restored as usual, but not by means of the parish funds, and it is generally thought it will be impossible to obtain another rate; a circumstance like this must greatly injure the Establishment. Many other instances might be mentioned where the Church-rates had been so refused. If he were one of the most ardent supporters of the Church, the best and safest course he would recommend
 995 l
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  observed, that the spirit of economy which was manifested in the Estimates now under consideration was such as to induce him to vote for the Motion of the right hon. Secretary at War. He could not but add, in consequence of what been observed in the course of the present discussion, that the Earl of Munster had not only served, but had sought actual service up to the period when the restoration of peace closed all chances of active employment.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  concurred in the opinion which had been so frequently expressed as to the inconvenience arising from the late hours to which the sittings of the House were protracted; but he also was of opinion, that the remedy for this inconvenience would not be afforded by dividing the House in the manner which had been proposed. He was anxious that some arrangement should be made to obviate the in convenience (not to use a harsher term) of business of the greatest importance to the nation being transacted after midnight; but as the Motion of the hon. and learned member for Dublin would not effect that desirable object, he hoped the hon. and learned Member would withdraw it.
 Dr. Lushington  thought it would be much more expedient to wait till the noble Paymaster of the Forces was present, before entering into this discussion. Unless the Bill were fairly stated, and the principles of it fully understood, it was incompetent to any Gentleman, be his talent what it might, to pronounce a just opinion upon any particular part of it. The hon. Member who spoke last had stated that a particular part of the present Bill would be productive of considerable annoyance to the Dissenters. He would state, that when the Bill was seen, and its provisions known, the Dissenters would not entertain that opinion, and for this reason, that there would be no such provision contained in it. He was afraid that it was premature to enter into any discussion at present, but he would say, that it would be competent to any person whatever, whether a Dissenter or a member of the Church, to be married in a Dissenting chapel. He did not introduce the discussion, but he thought it right to correct any misapprehension, and that it was expedient that no misstatement should go forth upon this most important question. It was-most desirable that they should not raise an outcry against a measure until they had bad an opportunity of considering it, and above all, it was desirable that the truth should be stated at all times.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  condemned the attempt to cut down the salary of the soldier, and disapproved of those reductions in the army. He would be glad to see large reductions in high quarters, but he deprecated such low and paltry economy; those miserable attempts to pinch and screw a petty saving from the hard earnings of the unfortunate soldier. The hon. member for Oldham had said, that the pay of a private soldier had, of late years, been doubled. Why so it had, and
 1011 Question s s d s d s Laughter 1012
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  had studied the question of the currency for twenty years closely, and he was quite satisfied in his own mind that unless recourse was had to paper money, the country could not prosper. The hon. member for Middlesex (Mr. Hume) had insinuated that he wished for a war. He denied the insinuation. He had certainly told the House last Session that Constantinople was in danger, and what had happened? why, in a short time afterwards, the Autocrat of Russia was in possession of the capital of the Turkish Empire. He had in like manner foretold what happened to the Dardanelles, and perhaps it was not true that Russian artizans were now actually engaged in erecting fortifications to render the Dardanelles impassable by British ships. But
 1019
 Mr. Cobbett  said, it was not very consoling to his constituency at Oldham to know that the officers of the Guards were to have 4,000 l d Laughter
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that if the noble Lord and those hon. Members who usually sat upon the Treasury bench would refrain from voting upon the present occasion, he should be quite content to abide and be bound by the decision of the majority of the House.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, he recollected the 12th regiment, like the other regiments, had only sixpence a-day to support themselves; and, during seven years, it was known that not a man was punished in the regiment.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that the right hon. and gallant Officer (Sir Henry Hardinge) spoke of the Report of the Poor-laws Commissioners, as if it was the Bible, and ought not to be called in question. Now, he knew, as many Members of that House knew, and as had been stated by many Magistrates, Clergymen, and others, in Petitions to that House, that the Report contained many gross falsehoods. The Report, after all, was but the opinion of the persons who drew it up; and he would venture to say, that with the exception of one of the Commissioners, they knew nothing about the subject. It would have been much better to have left the matter to a Committee of Gentlemen of that House, rather than to those who had been selected to investigate the subject. What could two Bishops, and three Barristers, and two newspaper reporters, know of the working of the Poor-laws? If his Majesty's Ministers were anxious to remove
 1009
 Mr. Cobbett  would make no objection to the number of men proposed by the right hon. Secretary, for though there was no war at present, no likelihood of a war, nor, indeed, any likelihood of the word being pronounced, either in that House or any where else, still it was certain that fifty millions in gold could not be collected without the aid of a numerous standing army. However, although he did not object to the number, he would not let that question pass without objecting to the sum required for their pay. The right hon. Secretary had inquired a few nights since, whether any Member contemplated reducing the present pay of the soldier? He (Mr. Cobbett) would reduce it. The present pay of the soldier was 7 s l s s s s s s 1004 s s s d laugh d 1005
 Mr. Cobbett  saw much business done by army agents; at least, there was a charge of 26,000 l
 Sir Henry Parnell  said, that the noble
 1029 1030 l l l
 Mr. Guest  moved, as an Amendment, that the Chairman do report progress.
 Mr. Guest  found, upon examining the Estimates, that a much larger sum was paid for the Guards than for the infantry of the Line. He conceived, that all the duty done by the guards might be done by the regiments of the Line. The difference betwixt the cost of the Guards, and the cost of an equal number of infantry was 62,789 l l
 Sir Rufane Donkin  was understood to say, with respect to military governments, that they were prized more for the honour which they conferred than for the profit derived from them. He would himself rather receive 100 l l l l
 Lord Althorp  hoped hon. Members would not object to proceed until twelve o'clock, and, at this hour, he trusted the hon. and learned Gentleman would not hesitate to withdraw his Motion.
 Lord Althorp  thought the hon. and learned Member would agree with him, that the majority of the House were the most
 1033
 Lord Althorp  was surprised at the observations of the hon. member for Oldham, and was persuaded that, there could not be in that House an opinion favourable to the reduction of the pay of the soldiery. The comparison made by the hon. member for Oldham, between the labourer and the soldier was not a fair one, neither was it fair to assume that the result of the inquiry entered into by the Poor Law Commission would be unfavourable to the agricultural labourer. He could assure the House, that whatever course might be adopted in consequence of that inquiry, it should not operate to the disadvantage of the labourer, or render his situation worse than it was at present. That condition he admitted was bad enough; but it was principally owing to the mode in which the Poor-laws operated, and the object of the Commissioners was to remedy their defects. He was aware of the difficulties with which the question of Poor-laws was beset, but when the subject came to be discussed, hon. Gentlemen would perceive, that it was the desire and anxious wish of Government to do all in their power to benefit the labouring classes. Again, he would say, that assumptions should not be made which were only calculated to arouse popular excitement.
 Lord Ebrington  said, that it certainly appeared, from the evidence given before the Committee last Session, that the reductions respecting the Staff at headquarters had been already carried too far. That was the purport of all the evidence given before the Committee, with the exception
 1028
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he had a few words to address to the House in consequence of some observations made by the noble Lord opposite (Lord John Russell), both in that House and at a public meeting in Devonshire. The noble Lord, at that
 1047 John Russell No, no,
 Sir William Chaytor , in supporting the prayer of the petition, stated, that he did so being a tithe-owner himself, for he was ready and willing to give them up.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the noble Lord did him justice. Whatever might be his speculative or individual opinions upon the value of those institutions—and he did consider them very valuable—he had never said even one word that contained any idea of the transfer of that species of property to the original owners, vested as it was under several Acts of Parliament, and settled by a long course of time. For himself, individually, he would add, that the greater part of that property which he possessed was of that nature. There was another observation of the noble Lord which he did make, for he used it in the House that morning—viz. his attributing the origin of tithes to barbarous times. They certainly did not exist in Ireland till they were introduced by the English, so that the English were the barbarous bestowers of tithe upon that country. If they could get rid of that barbarous novelty it would be no small blessing. The noble Lord had promised a Bill to make some alteration with respect to tithes; but it should be recollected that every alteration was not an amendment; they should see whether it aggravated or diminished the evil, and if it did the latter, every one would concur in it; but if it aggravated
 1048
 Mr. Ruddel Todd  concurred with the last speaker—the discussion would be of a more legislative nature when the Bill was before the House, and would be attended with real advantage.
 Mr. Baring  considered, that the discussion was at that time unnecessary; there was no general view drawn up for the adjustment of that question. Various plans and schemes were proposed, but they seemed to have emanated either from the private opinions of hon. Members, or to have been only the mere instructions of their constituents. His Majesty's Ministers would do well to take warning from the dissatisfaction that was felt throughout the country last year, at the postponement of such an important question as the Commutation of Tithes. It was quite impossible to do justice to the property of the clergy, and make concessions to the people such as they demanded. The question was encompassed with great difficulties; hon. Members should be expected to yield a good deal, and not be so unreasonable as to expect perfection in
 1050
 Mr. Curteis  said, that his constituents sympathised very strongly with the people of Devonshire, and were equally anxious to obtain a fair commutation of tithes.
 Mr. Kennedy  supported the petition, having been requested to do so by the petitioners. He was glad that the people of Devon had taken the lead upon this occasion, for he was sure that their example would be speedily followed by the rest of the country.
 Mr. O'Connell  had obtained leave more than twelve months ago to bring in a Bill to amend the law of Juries in Ireland. That measure had two objects—one related to the original jury panel or grand panel, an institution which he proposed to have changed into a jury-book. This proposition included Special Juries, and all cases of disputed property between man and man, and of material injuries to the person. The practice in Ireland was for the Sheriff to return the grand panel, which was supposed to contain the names of all the freeholders of the county, and from this panel the officer of the court struck the Jury at his discretion. Such was the state of the law in England previous to the 6th of George 4th, and in Ireland until last year. As he bad before stated, his object was to change the grand panel into a jury-book, and to introduce the principle of the ballot in the selection of the Jury, as established by the 6th of George 4th in England. That object was
 1055 1056
 Mr. O'Connell  would not press his Motion to a division, if the right hon. Gentleman were opposed to it. He had the misfortune, however, to be totally misunderstood, for his present Motion had no connexion whatever with the Bill of last Session, which had related only to Special Jury cases, whereas his proposition was confined solely to those cases that could not be tried by Special Juries. He would withdraw his Motion.
 Colonel Torrens  said, that from the clear statement and the promises made by the First Lord of the Admiralty, he was sure that the impressment would be rendered unnecessary, and that the power granted by the present harsh Act would lie dormant. The object was to prevent cruelty, consistently with the preservation of an effective naval force. Both, he thought, could be done by the proposition of the noble Lord. With this impression upon his mind, he was decidedly of opinion that the power to impress seamen for the naval service could be most properly retained in the hands of Government with perfect safety to the community and with advantage to the nation. He would support the Amendment.
 Captain Elliott  denied, that he had prided himself upon the fact that the
 1106
 Alderman Thompson  had no wish to involve the House in a premature discussion; but when the subject should be regularly brought before the House he
 1115
 Lord George Lennox  said, he was not going into the case of Mr. Cohen, as if it was one of so extraordinary a nature as to call upon that House to agree to an address requesting his Majesty to remit the remainder of Mr. Cohen's imprisonment, for he (Lord G. Lennox) was quite sure, that
 1128 Brighton Guardian 1129 Brighton Guardian 1130
 Mr. Hodgson  believed that, in what the hon. Member (Mr. C. Buller) had said, it must be obvious to the House, as well as to himself, that not only the object, but the tendency of his learned friend's speech was rather to amuse than to instruct; but with regard to the latter part of what fell from him,—and the same argument had been used by another hon. Gentleman,—it deserved some more consideration. The hon. Gentleman stated, it was unjust to carry into execution a sentence passed under a law which the House were about to alter. A Bill, certainly, had been brought in to alter the law, but the prosecution of this case would have been precisely the same. The only advantage the editor would have had, if the Bill had been passed into a law, was, that he would have been able to justify the libel, if he could prove its truth. Whatever the opinion of the hon. Gentleman was, he thought that neither that House, nor any Jury of the country would have found a verdict if a justification of the libel were produced.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  was sorry to have listened to the remarks of the hon. member for Newport. A more useful set of men did not exist than the unpaid magistrates. He was surprised to hear the hon. member for Newport defend that paragraph as if the paper were a paragon of perfection; he (Mr. Hughes) had not the pleasure of reading the  Brighton Guardian
 Captain Elliot  said, he would just refer to the returns as to the ships commanded by the gallant Admiral, in order to show
 1099 1100 l 1101
 Captain Elliot  rose to offer a few remarks to the House, in consequence of what had fallen from the hon. mover, and in consequence of some errors into which he had been led, both on the present and on the former occasion, when he had brought this question under the consideration of Parliament. On a former occasion that hon. Member had drawn a most affecting picture of the injustice and inhumanity of impressment. He had proved himself a great artist in the picture he then drew, but he had taken the liberty of an artist in colouring that picture for effect. He was sure of this, that no commander could keep his ship effective in time of war, and with the requisite number of men, without the aid of impressment. He did not mean to say, that a better system might not be substituted, but as matters stood at present, it was impossible to keep a ship's company in time of war, effective, without the aid of impressment. It was stated on the other hand, by the hon. mover, that Lord Ex-mouth did, without the assistance of impressment, and the gallant Admiral opposite had also told them that he had kept up his ship's number without it.
 Admiral Fleming  said, he came to the
 1103
 Lord John Russell  would not offer any opposition to the introduction of this Bill, and would postpone his observations upon its provisions until he had seen the Bill itself. He would only allude to one observation of the hon. Member, viz., that he had proposed a Resolution as to the practice of paying some time after the election. A Resolution had last year been adopted by the House, and was repeated in the Resolutions of this year, that if a sum of money was paid to a voter for a vote at an election, the Return might be questioned on that account within a period of twenty-eight days after the payment, and at the expiration of fourteen days after a sum of money, which had been regularly stipulated for, had been paid to a voter. Whatever corruptions existed, it was his wish to have totally done away. He fully approved of the Resolutions of the hon. member for Montgomery.
 Lord John Russell  said, he did not know what was attributed to him in the public papers, but he was glad to have that opportunity of stating that he did not think that he had said anything resembling what the hon. and learned Member alluded to. The only thing that occurred to him that he (Lord John Russell) did say was, that at some meeting, speaking of abbeys and nunneries, he expressed a supposition that nobody except the hon. and learned member for Dublin wished to see them restored. He said this in consequence of that hon. and learned Member having been represented at some meeting at Kildare to have lamented pathetically over the ruins of the nunneries of that part of Ireland.
 Lord John Russell , as a member for the southern division of the county of Devon, and from having been requested to support the prayer of the petition, begged to intrude for a few moments upon the attention of the House. He agreed with his noble friend who presented the petition, as to the general feeling among the yeomanry of Devonshire, from whom the petition emanated, which was signed by upwards of 9,000 persons. He had great pleasure likewise in agreeing with their opinion, that tithe, in itself, was both unreasonable and unjust. There could be nothing more unjust, or more impolitic, than a law which tended to discourage the cultivation of the soil, which it ought to be the policy of all good government to promote. Nothing could be more impolitic than to interfere with the skill and capital of those desirous of improving the land, and taking from those persons a great portion, if not all, the due returns of their skill and capital, thus depriving them of all motives for making improvements. He considered, therefore, tithes in themselves, as properly the institution of a barbarous age; and his only wonder was, that it was left to these days to provide a remedy for this great and oppressive evil. He believed that the most perfect integrity, and a sense of fair dealing towards the clergy, animated these petitioners; and though he had the misfortune not to agree with them in the conclusion to which they had come, he believed, in drawing that conclusion, they meant to do full justice to the clergy and the tithe-owners. They had been led into what he considered an error, he believed, by the attempt made to place the property of the Church on too high a ground, and considering it as if it were private property. In his opinion, Church property was intended to be enjoyed and used for the public good. But, having heard this assumption put forward, and having heard it said, that Church proprietors were the same as other proprietors of the soil, the Devonshire yeomanry were doing what was not unnatural for those to do who considered Church property like other property. They thought, that, while claiming only a part, the Church took the whole profit; but if the profit were large, they took a tenth of that large profit, and if the profit were small, they only took a tenth of that small or inconsiderable profit. This reasoning was not
 1041
 Lord William Lennox  was happy that the hon. Baronet who addressed the House last had touched upon the same point, which he (Lord W. Lennox) was going to state—namely, that Mr. Cohen had offered to give up the name of the person who sent him the paragraph. That was one reason why his case should be considered by that House. Then there was another circumstance which ought to be taken in Mr. Cohen's favour, which was, that though fires had taken place up to the time of the paragraph alluded to appearing in the  Brighton Guardian 1138 1139
 Major Beauclerk  regretted that he had to address the House on this subject. He wished there had been no occasion for his so doing, but he wished to see equal justice dealt out to every individual. He must look on this as a case of exceeding hardship. Mr. Cohen had been sentenced to six months' imprisonment, and taken from his own home into a foreign country. Gentlemen might laugh, but he called it a foreign country. Mr. Cohen was taken from his home to a foreign country; and now his Majesty's Ministers had sat out the whole House, at half-past two o'clock, to have the satisfaction of saying that the Whig Administration had shut up this individual. The whole Administration and their friends would get the credit for this act. He spoke the sentiments of the country, when he said that it was to-morrow morning to go forth to the country, that the liberal Whig Administration had made another victim to the Libel-law. It was evident to every man, that the Whigs had abused it more than any administration which had been in existence for some years, for so short a time. Yet he did expect, that this unfortunate individual, who was allowed by all parties—even by his hon. friend, who thought him guilty of a libel on the Magistrates—to have been harshly treated, and that six months' imprisonment was an exceedingly hard punishment. Mr. Cohen had all the prejudices of the country to stand against, and he was now punished for a crime which Lord Brougham was the first to commit in that very House. Did not Lord Brougham hold up the Magistrates to reproach and contempt more than any paper ever had done? And now this individual, who, because he
 1143
 Mr. O'Dwyer  called upon the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) in the name of his constituents, who received no spiritual instruction from the Church, to support him (Mr. O'Dwyer), in relieving them from the burthen of tithes.
 Mr. Charles Buller  said, he would not take up much of the time of the House; he should have been glad if he could have addressed them before. The noble Lord who addressed the House last had entered into a discussion of the character of Mr. Cohen, when the question before the House was,—whether the libel of which Mr. Cohen was convicted was an offence for which, under a rational system of law, any man ought to be punished? He would not enter into the circumstances of the trial except to state, that he did not think that it was a fair trial. For, in the first place, he had been tried by a Special Jury, composed of landowners and private gentlemen; and they were almost all, as a matter of necessity, Anti-reformers. He did not say all of them were; he said most of them were Anti-reformers; and therefore it was exceedingly hard to take him from his natural Judges, and take him before Judges who held very strong political principles of a contrary tendency; and though they might say, if he had been brought before a common Jury, that they had sympathised more with him, surely it was better that the sympathy should be with the defendant than the prosecutor. Then, again, the atrocious part of the Libel-law left men dubious of what offence had been committed. He (Mr. Buller) was in court when Mr. Cohen was brought up for judgment; and the impression in that part of the Court where he (Mr. Buller) was, was that the sentence was exceedingly light; and why? Because it was said, he was the man who had been convicted of inciting the people to acts of incendiarism; and yet the Judge said, "considering what passed at the trial, I do not think that the Jury intended to find you guilty of that intention." Was this an offence that ought to be punished? He did not say, that Mr. Cohen had a right to libel the Magistrates. He did not say that Mr. Cohen's language was temperate, or decorous; but this was a free country, in which they ought to leave public functionaries open to free discussion. He said, that, on these matters,
 1131 1132
 Mr. Harvey  remembered, that the sentiments uttered by the right hon. Baronet, were precisely those which he himself had expressed upon a discussion upon Irish tithes, and well remembered, too, that certain of his Irish friends around him were not quite pleased with the view he took upon the subject. The real fact was this—and it was incumbent upon hon. Members to know it—that it was the duty of the House to see, that the funds of the Church were not improperly diverted from their destined purpose. Let the tithes of this country belong to whomsoever they might, whether to the Church or to the nation, of this fact there could be no doubt, that they did not belong to the landlords. The House was greatly indebted to the noble Lord, the member for Devon, for affording hon. Members an opportunity to deliver their sentiments upon that important subject. If the noble Lord brought forward any proposition for a commutation of tithes, which would turn the tithe now levied into money's worth, it would be universally disapproved of. What the people wanted was, the real value of the tithes ascertained, and then dealt with as might be thought proper. No Dissenter wished to put the tithe into his own pocket; but there were, certainly, a kind of nonconforming nondescripts in the country, who did not speak out as well as the Dissenters, who, preserving existing interests, wished to see the revenues of the Church not applied for the purposes of the Church. Notwith-
 1053 s
 Mr. Divett  having been present at the meeting at which the petition was agreed to, and having been in the minority on that occasion, was anxious to state his reasons why he dissented from the petitioners. He fully agreed with his noble friends as to the high respectability of the petitioners, but he must say, that most of the persons who assembled at the meeting came there with strong opinions previously formed. The petitioners thought that, from the plan which had been proposed by the Government, the farmers would derive no benefit; but he thought they would derive great benefit, for this reason, that in Devonshire there was a great number of small occupiers and leaseholders, and, therefore, they would be greatly benefitted during the continuance of their holdings. It was true that tithes originated in barbarous times, and he attributed their continuance so long to the moderation with which they had been enforced. They had also been greatly extended during the war, when the high prices existed, and they had not been decreased in proportion to the decrease in the prices. He trusted, however, that the measure of the Government would be productive of much good, and that a clause would be introduced for the redemption of tithes. He knew it was of great importance that all the bickerings and heart-burnings between the clergy and the people should be speedily removed. As to the dictation spoken of by the hon. Member who preceded him, he denied that anything of that kind prevailed at the meeting at which the petition was agreed to. He knew that the feeling against tithes was stronger in Devonshire than in most other counties; and he should like to see the question settled so as to remove all the existing ill-feeling upon the subject.
 Mr. Littleton  felt it his duty to oppose the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman, whose wish was to introduce into Ireland a practice which was not at present legal. At least, if such were the law, he was convinced it was not the custom. The hon. Gentleman wished to introduce into Ireland a practice totally different from what existed in England, and one which he thought would be extremely objectionable. There was not a topic of the learned Member's speech which he had not introduced in his discussion upon the Jury Bill in the last Session. Only six months
 1057
 Mr. Ayshford Sanford  hoped, that in any measure that might be brought forward, no distinction would be made be-ween the tithes held by lay impropriators, and those in the hands of the Church, but that it would embrace all. If it was the intention of the Government to make any new arrangement for the payment of the Church, that suggested by the petition presented by the noble Lord would be, perhaps, a fair mode; but the sum stated in that petition, would not be a fair valuation.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  observed, that Ministers had repeatedly stated what they would do; but he would ask, in the face of the assertion, what had they done? Why they had admitted the right of the clergy to tithes, at the same time admitting that they had no right to collect them under that denomination. He was happy to see that petition, and to the principles it expressed he gave his most cordial support.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  said, the conduct of the noble Lord, the member for King's Lynn, was conduct most worthy of him; and if followed by other hon. Gentlemen would make this libel harmless. The noble Lord had stated that his family had been frequently abused by this paper, and he had thought it better to let them die away by taking no notice of them; and he was right, for nothing that was said in any paper could disparage his family. This was a
 1135 1136 Brighton Guardian
 Mr. Lyall  concurred in most of the statements of the member for Sheffield. He thought it was proved that there existed generally a strong reluctance in men to join the navy. That reluctance to any connexion with the service existed not only before impressment, but even after. Impressment was not calculated to make the service palatable. To show how unwilling men who were forced into the navy were to remain in it, he would mention that there were 15,000 deserters in two years during the war. Now, if a system that caused such repugnance to the service and so much desertion were not corrected in time of peace, what, he would ask, would be the state of our Colonies during war, when they required protection? But it was not alone the navy or the Colonies that would be injured: the mercantile interest of the country, which stood in need of protection on the seas, would also suffer. The merchant service would require more men during the war than in peace. At all times, whether in peace or war, the same preference would be given to the merchant service over the King's service, and, of course, greater facilities would be afforded for supplying it with hands. Merchantmen possessed many advantages and offered indulgences to sailors which, on board ships of war, they could not enjoy. They were allowed more wages, were under less rigid discipline, and could oftener get on shore and return home; young and old could in a few months return to their families, and bring back their earnings. Such being the case, the repugnance to the King's service would still continue. And he (Mr. Lyall) thought that it would be highly desirable to remove it. He was not sure that registration would effect that object. Registration was impressment under a different name. It would not prevent the necessity of impressment. He had
 1104
 Mr. Robinson  supported the Motion. He asked whether the proposition for a Committee up stairs did not receive an inconceivable addition of force from the announcement of this measure on the part of the Government? He, however, was against any such measure being intrusted to one person, though, if it were to be given to any individual, none could be more worthy of that trust than the present First Lord of the Admiralty. The right hon. Gentleman had asked, "Would you take away from the Crown in times of great emergency this prerogative?" Now,
 1091 1092 1093 1094
 Mr. Robinson  thought the question was one of very considerable difficulty, and it would be absolutely necessary to adopt some course that would prevent the Canadas from falling a sacrifice to any unwise concessions to Russia. He should not then go into the general question, but content himself, for the present, by supporting the Motion.
 Mr. Wilbraham  was willing to concur in any measure for the relief of the agricultural interest, but at the same time he must protest against any particular county dictating to the rest of the country. As to the exact mode of commuting tithes, that mode which might suit the county of Devon might be unjust to the rest of the
 1046
 Mr. G. F. Young  regretted, that a subject of so much importance should have been thus incidentally introduced, and subjected to a crude and unsatisfactory discussion. It was, in his opinion, a fallacy to suppose that the reduction of the timber duties would be attended with benefit to the consumer in this country; and there was no doubt it would produce a considerable diminution in the revenue. It was a fact worth the notice of the House, that when the duty was only 10 s d l s
 Mr. George Frederick Young  rose, with a deal of pleasure, to second the Motion. He had hoped that the necessity for bringing it forward would have been superseded by the concession of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Admiralty, for he was sure the right hon. Gentleman could not have forgotten the unequivocal expression of feeling on the subject in that House, when it was last under discussion. This hope had been greatly encouraged from the new regulation which it was proposed to adopt, of discharging 500 men from the navy, and rearing 1,000 boys; and from the Bill introduced by the Government, to do away with service in the navy as a punishment for the crime of smuggling, thus enhancing the character of the service, and holding out inducements to men voluntarily to enter it. Impressment had been upheld on the ground of necessity, that had been hitherto the only plea for its continuance, but he, for one, denied that that necessity existed. That was the only argument used by the right hon.
 1080
 Mr. Goring  said, I should not have risen on this occasion had I not the honour of knowing some of the individuals who tried Mr. Cohen for the libel of which he was convicted. The Jury was composed principally of Yeomen, and, I believe some tradesmen. There was not one Magistrate, and the foreman was as respectable a Yeoman as any in Sussex—a most independent and honourable man—and no anti-reformer. I made this statement on a former occasion, that I thought an importance was
 1133 Brighton Guardian 1134
 Mr. Warburton  said, the noble Lord was in error in supposing that it was he who moved for the papers. They had been moved for by another hon. Member. He would beg to inform the noble Lord that, amongst those engaged in the importation of timber, a very general expectation was indulged that, in the present year, some alteration would be made in the timber duties. In fact, amongst the entire trade an impression was entertained, year after year, that some alteration would be made, and he could assure the House that putting off a question of such moment was calculated to produce a very injurious effect upon the trade. In fact, nothing could tend more to paralyse trade than such a state of uncertainty. At present the enormous duty of 200 per cent existed, and surely the Government ought at once to interfere.
 Mr. Herbert Curteis  said, he coincided in all that the hon. Baronet (Sir C. Burrell) had stated with regard to the prosecutor; but, at the same time, he must state, that this was not a prosecution undertaken by the Magistrates of Sussex, but that that gentleman (Mr. Mabbott) was put forward as the tool of certain other gentlemen who did not like to show themselves, and to that very moment no other person had appeared who prosecuted. He, with others, who, in the first instance, tried to stay this prosecution, because they considered it more likely to do harm than good; for if the publication had done harm, the prosecution had done more, because it caused the paragraph to be circulated a hundred times more; whereas he was convinced, that if it had been left alone, after a short time it would have been forgotten, and have sunk into complete and utter oblivion. After having tried to stop the prosecution, which they failed in, he and his friends afterwards felt bound, when called upon, to put in an affidavit to mitigate the punishment of Mr. Cohen. He did not regret having done so, if he thought that that affidavit went at all to lessen the punishment. In that affidavit he said, that he had been for along time a reader of the "Brighton Guardian," and that he did not think the editor could be justly charged with having excited the peasantry to acts of violence; and he went on to state in the same affidavit (well and cautiously worded), that, on the contrary, he believed that at the time of the fires there were many articles published in that paper which went highly to condemn and point out to the rustic population the wickedness of the fires. In giving this opinion, though he might have offended some brother Magistrates, yet he did not hesitate to put in that affidavit; and he would not hesitate to say that this was a case of great severity. As for the charge of bringing the Sussex Magistrates into contempt, he, as a Magistrate, would scorn such newspaper paragraphs. If the papers chose to abuse him he cared not for it; he was known to his friends and his neighbours; and he trusted they would not be influenced by them, but do him justice if he deserved it; and therefore he hesitated
 1142
 Mr. Wigney , in reply, said, that, as the House were so anxious to come to a conclusion on this matter, he should not obtrude long upon their time. He should observe upon one of the points mentioned by the noble Lord, the member for West Sussex, that he had rather unfairly brought before the House what this individual, Mr. Cohen, had said subsequently to the present affair. Now, that ought not to have been mentioned; and he was sorry to observe that the hon. members for Shoreham had taken the same course. It was rather unfair to take up a paper and pick out certain paragraphs without the context. Why, in that way, they might extract libels from any paper. There was one other point which he must allude to, and which had been skilfully handled by his noble friend, the hon. member for King's Lynn; that was, that a requisition had been got up against this unfortunate individual, and signed by a relation of his (Mr. Wigney's) because this editor, in the course of a discussion upon a political subject, did in his paper state that which it was thought tended to libel his Majesty; so the requisitionists, without taking the subject into consideration, determined to call a meeting; they did, and it evaporated. Without saying another word upon the subject, he must beg leave to take the sense of the House upon his Motion.
 Mr. Wigney , in rising to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice, relative to the case of Mr. Cohen, the publisher of the  Brighton Guardian 1116 l 1117 Pilot
 Mr. Buckingham , in reply, said, that as the House had already extended to him their unbroken attention during his first address, and must by this time consider the snbject nearly exhausted, he should trespass but a few minutes only on their time. As, however, he was anxious to
 1108 James Graham 1109 1110 1111 1112
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that, in rising to call the attention of the House to the Motion of which he had given notice, for a Select Committee, to inquire into the practicability of devising some plan for manning his Majesty's navy, without recourse to forcible impressment, he might, perhaps, be permitted to congratulate himself and the House at the removal of many of the objections which were urged to his Motion on this subject last Session. On that occasion, having, at the express desire, and to suit the avowed convenience of his Majesty's Ministers, deferred that Motion several times, he was taunted, in return for his courtesy, with the lateness of the period of the Session at which the Motion was brought forward; and this very lateness, caused as it was by his Majesty's Ministers themselves, was urged as a reason why the Motion could not be ac-
 1064 1065 1066 1067 1068 versus Ne quid detrimenti respublica capiat? 1069 Habeas Corpus 1070 perdere patriam 1071 vice versâ ex officio: 1072 1073 l l 1074 l l 1075 1076 1077 l 1078 l 1079
 Mr. Parrott  begged leave to put the House in possession of the principle upon which the petitioners asked for the commutation, which had not yet been touched upon. Before he did so, he would notice a few of the observations which had fallen from the noble Viscount (Ebrington) opposite. The noble Viscount said, that the petition was not supported by the great landed proprietors of the county. There was no doubt that the petition was not signed by the great body of the great landed proprietors; but, on looking at the signatures in the very first page, he found those of nine Magistrates of the county; so, that though the great body did not support the petition, it was clear that a considerable portion of them were not averse from it; and, besides those names, there were many others that he recognized as being those of most respectable landowners. Without in any manner intending to speak harshly of the great proprietors of land, he thought he could easily point out one very good reason why their signatures were not attached to the petition. They were almost the only class who were the proprietors of tithes, which properly belonged to the Church; and, of course, were quite contented with the system as it at present existed. He believed there was very little doubt, but that a strong feeling existed against that system in Devonshire. He also believed, that the same feeling prevailed in other counties—in fact, there was an almost
 1043 s d 1044
 Mr. Benett  agreed with the hon. member for Tipperary, that the lay tithes were different from those in the hands of the Church, but he did not think, that the State would act fairly in appropriating the property of the Church to any other purposes. Something had been said respecting Dissenters, of which body he (Mr. B.) had a great knowledge; and he would say, that he never met with a Dissenter who entertained any idea of doing
 1051
 Mr. Bulteel  declared his decided dissent from the proposition contained in the petition, and, in doing so, he concurred, he knew, with a vast majority of the inhabitants of the county from whence the petition emanated. In adopting this course, he begged it to be understood that he was not arraying himself against the general tenets expressed in the petition; but he firmly believed the great majority of the county were opposed to the plan laid down for a commutation. At the same time the whole county entertained a conviction that the grievances complained of must be removed, and they looked to the Government for some perfect and decided remedial measure. He congratulated the House upon the sentiments which had fallen from his noble friend (Lord John Russell), from which it was to be anticipated that some measure would be proposed by his Majesty's Government
 1042
 Mr. Hardy  rose to make a Motion, the object of which was, to promote the purity of elections, and to reduce the expenses which at present were attendant on all electioneer-
 1058 1059 l l 1060 l onus 1061 1062
 Mr. Hawkins : Sir, I was prevented, by illness, from being present when this subject was last brought under the notice of the House; and from adding, as I should then have done, my voice to that of the independent members who recommended the case of the petitioner to the consideration of his Majesty's Ministers. I much regret the opposition which they have thought fit to offer to this Motion. I regret it, not only on account of the petitioner, who I think has had a very hard measure of justice dealt out to him; but also for the sake of his Majesty's Ministers, who, I think, are now throwing away an opportunity of recommending to the Crown an act of well-timed clemency. That the Crown would cheerfully comply with such a recommendation, both the personal and political character of its present possessor alike forbid us to doubt. The noble Lord thinks that no case has been made out for the interference of the Crown; I differ
 1124 1125 Brighton Guardian 1126 Brighton Guardian; Brighton Guardian 1127
 Mr. Warre  said, so strong were his feelings on the subject of impressment, that if the Motion of the hon. member for Sheffield were to stand or fall by its own merits, in place of being met, as it was, by the First Lord of the Admiralty, he would certainly give it his cordial support. But, after the statement made by the right hon. Baronet, he hoped the House would accede to his proposition, as he (Mr. Warre) thought that the original Motion would be rendered unnecessary. He concurred in most of what the hon. Member (Mr. Buckingham) said, as to the cruelty and the injustice of dragging innocent men from their homes to be forced on board King's ships, and the impolicy of keeping up such a system; and he especially concurred with him in his statement that, if we were involved in war to-morrow, while the impressment continued in operation, the feelings of the people would become changed about the navy as they were about other institutions; and that was a state of things that was much to be deprecated. It was not from any indifference about the subject, but from having heard and weighed the arguments advanced, that he came to the conclusion that the object of the hon. Member would be gained without pressing his Motion. The hon. Member declared his intention of supporting the Amendment.
 Mr. Hume  was prepared to contend, that the services of seamen were to be bought as well as the services of any other class of men; but it was most unjust to expect that men who could get 5 l 1105 laughter
 Mr. Sheil  was willing to allow the expediency of not immediately pressing forward to the termination of so important a subject as the Commutation of Tithes, so that time might be allowed to examine into the principle on which the alteration was grounded, as well as to the extent to which it should be carried. He was willing to meet the hon. Baronet opposite on Church property. It followed as an irrefutable consequence, that if the State originally appropriated a revenue to the Church, it was in the power of the State to release itself from that revenue again without any spoliation. As to lay tithes, he would not touch them. They were a distinct property, but the tithes which were set apart for the use of the clergy, the State was justified in applying to its own use, by recurring to the enlightened appropriation of that property in barbarous times. He was not for disturbing the present incumbents. It was not fair to do so. Strong instances were before the House, from former times of incumbents being secured in their then possessions. An Act was passed in the time of Queen Mary, and confirmed by the Pope, which secured Church property to those who then had been invested with it.
 Mr. Ingham  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet, whether it were intended by the Government to introduce a clause in the projected Bill of Registration rendering it legal to man the navy with those included in the registration in case a sufficient number of volunteers could not be procured?
 Mr. Kemp  begged to second the Motion, and said that he did so with considerable satisfaction, because there had been just laid on the Table of the House, a Petition signed by 300 of the inhabitants of the
 1118
 Sir Charles Blunt  said, that what he said should be brief and to the point. He had been applied to by a large body of his constituents to support this Motion, and he could cheerfully do so as he was no party to the prosecution. The reasons why he was no party to this prosecution, perhaps the House would be so indulgent as to allow him to state. He was no party to that prosecution, because he thought that it was impolitic, and only calculated to revive the discussion of matters which had occurred two years ago, and of a subject which had almost been forgotten; and that the country in 1833, was recovering from that excitement which it had for two years laboured under. And he also refused to be a party to that prosecution, for another reason; and that was, that he considered that the Magistracy were not exactly that source whence a prosecution for libel, either affecting the liberty of the Press, or the subject, should arise. These reasons might not have much weight with the House, but he had a third reason, which he was satisfied would have weight with the House in favour of the Motion; and that was, that he was enabled to state to the House as a positive fact, that Mr. Cohen, the petitioner, previous to his trial, was ready to come forward and acknowledge himself not the author of the libel
 1137
 Sir Charles Burrell  said, that an hon. Gentleman had stated, that the Poor-law Commissioners had found fault with the Magistracy; but the hon. Gentleman should recollect that they had found fault, with the Magistrates of the midland counties as well as those of Sussex; and, therefore, observed the hon. Baronet, "We are all in the scrape." The Poor-law Commissioners, however, did not find fault with the Magistracy for too much severity, but for being wasteful and profuse in making orders for the poor. Their's was not a ground of objection on the score of severity, but rather for their over indulgence. The hon. Member did not seem to have read the Poor-law Commissioners' Report sufficiently to understand it. With regard to the observations made with respect to a friend of his, the prosecutor in this case, he could state, from the authority of a letter which he had got, that every word which the noble Lord (Lord George Lennox) had stated with regard to that hon. Gentleman was perfectly true, He was brought in to this affair by accident; it was by the request of his brother Magistrates that he took it up; he did not put himself forward; but when they proposed it to him he said, "I shall never flinch from what I consider, and my brother Magistrates consider, it is my duty to do." To this day he (Mr. Mabbott) did not repent it; he believed it was his duty; and he had stated that was it to be done again he would do it He would do what his brother Magistrate considered was his duty to his country. He was an honourable man, and possessed as much humanity of disposition as any man and it was too much for the man that was prosecuted to state what he had of that Gentleman. It was a very singular thing as it had been already observed that, in the very paper in which Mr. Cohen had given an account of the Debate which took place on
 1140 1141
 Sir Edward Codrington  begged to explain, that what he had said was, that he had not impressed men. He did not say that he had not received impressed men on board.
 Sir Edward Codrington  said, he would support the Motion, not only on account of the use made of impressment, but on account of the abuses which arose out of the system. The use of it he considered not at all consistent with the liberty of the subject. Sailors had a right to be put upon the same footing as the rest of his Majesty's subjects. His objection was not to the leaving such a power in the hands of the Crown; his objection was this,—that sailors alone, of all the subjects of the King, should be exposed to the exercise of this tyrannical power. He would just give the House an instance of the extreme hardship and injustice arising out of this system of impressment. A man who had been originally pressed served with him (Sir E. Codrington) for eight or nine years; he discharged his duty during that time in the most reputable manner possible, and, at the expiration of that period, from motives that would do honour to human nature,—namely, from a desire to support an aged father and mother,—he applied for his discharge, and offered eighty guineas to obtain it, It was refused him. Now, he really thought, that if this power of impressment were not to be used, some equivalent remuneration must be given to the seamen for services which were so imperatively demanded. In the army it was so. A man in a smock-frock got sixteen guineas to enlist as a soldier; and if a seaman was wanted by the State, why should he not be equally well rewarded? His conviction was, that if the men were not, in consequence of the existence of impressment, treated with a certain degree of harshness on board men-of-war, they would much rather enter the navy than the merchant service. He was certain, that such would be the case, provided they were allowed the indulgence which was given to them on board merchant ships, of going on shore. The restrictions and comparatively harsh treatment to which they were subjected on board men-of-war were attributable to the existence of impressment. The work which seamen had to do in merchant vessels was double that which they had to do on board men-of-war; but then they had on board merchantmen the opportunity of going on
 1095 1096 s s s s 1097 1098
 Sir Henry Willoughby  would not object to the petition being allowed to lie upon the Table, but he very strongly condemned the prayer it contained. He thought that if the House acceded to the prayer of that petition it would be guilty of as great an act of robbery and plunder, as had ever been perpetrated. This was his firm and decided opinion. The average rent of tithe paid in England was 5 s s s s
 Sir James Graham  said, that in ordinary circumstances he might have been induced to request the hon. member for Sheffield to postpone his Motion; but, under present circumstances, as the hon. Member appeared to think that he had imposed on the hon. Member's courtesy last Session, by such a request, he could not think of again appealing to the forbearance of the hon. Member. Besides, he should not have deemed a postponement of the final decision of the question consistent with his duty, when he looked to the high importance of, and its intimate connexion with, the public weal; for there could be
 1081 1082 1083 1084 1085 1086 d d per diem s l l l 1087 l l l 1088 1089 1090
 Sir James Graham  said, that, in the Bill which it was intended to introduce, no provision would be made for regulating the wages of those engaged in the merchant service. Secondly, that the Bill would be exclusively limited to simple registration. For the last century the imperfect state of the registration was complained of, and efforts were made to complete it. He (Sir J. Graham) would not say, that he had an entire confidence in his own powers. But, from the inquiries he made, the attention he paid to the subject, and the assistance he attained, he trusted that his registration would be a complete one.
 Colonel Seale  said, that representing a borough in Devonshire, he had been requested to support the prayer of the petition, and he begged to express his entire concurrence in its prayer. He agreed with the noble Lord who had presented the petition in most of the sentiments he had expressed, and he gave the noble Lord credit for the fairness with which he had stated the manner in which it had been got up. He could bear testimony to the respectability and wealth of the persons who had attended the meeting; at the same time, he must say, that the noble Lord could scarcely have assumed, although
 1045 s d s s d
 Sir Robert Peel  hoped, in legislating on this question, they would act with great caution, as it had hitherto been, under the salutary control of public opinion. They should bear in mind, that those who were about to dispose of the Church property, were either lay impropriators, or possessed of large landed property, with a direct personal interest in remitting tithes. If anything could sink that House in the public estimation, it would be by affording ground for the imputation, that, in disposing of Church property, they had consulted their own personal interest. He hoped the House would listen with caution to any suggestions establishing a distinction between lay tithes and tithes paid to the Church. They might say, if they chose, that this clergyman or the other had too high a stipend; and they might propose to reduce it; but let them beware not to appropriate the money to any but ecclesiastical uses. An hon. Gentleman had told them, that tithes were State property, with which they might do as they pleased. But while that right of gift was contended for, let them take care, that they did not give this property to themselves. He thus early put in a claim on behalf of the vested interests of the people of England, for whose benefit tithes were intended. They had a deep interest in the appropriation of this property to its original uses, for it was bestowed in trust for them. If the House directed that property to any other purpose, above all, if they turned it to their own advantage, they would be guilty of an act of spoliation which would be
 1052 s s s
 Sir Robert Peel  wished to say one word in explanation, for the purpose of disclaiming a compliment paid him by the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House. What had been stated by the hon. Gentleman, would induce the House to believe, that there was a community of feeling between him (Sir Robert Peel) and the hon. Gentleman on the subject of tithes. He certainly agreed with the hon. Gentleman that the property of that great Corporation, the Church, should be sacred. But he was most hostile to the property of the Church being taken by the State, and applied to the purposes of the State. This doctrine he had been always opposed to, and he would contend against it upon all occasions.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  had not the slightest doubt of the general concurrence of the House in adopting the present Bill, which he considered most desirable, not only for the purpose of effectually preventing bribery by new provisions, but by consolidating, to remove all possible doubts regarding those which at present existed. Particularly with regard to the Treating Act, it was most desirable that the law should be made perfectly clear. The law could not render a candidate responsible for the treating practised by his friends, because a person pretending to be his friend, but being actually his enemy, might treat his partizans for no other purpose than to set his election aside. He admitted that this was an extreme case; but he would appeal to such Members of the House as had stood contested elections, and would ask them, whether they thought that any candidate who had zealous partizans—and partizans often took a warmer interest in elections than
 1063
 Mr. Hutt  rose to submit a Motion with respect to the Timber Duties. He wished to see an equal-
 1114 l
 Lord Althorp  said, in reply to the hon. member for Hull, that he had not changed his mind upon the subject of the timber duties. It was not, he had further to inform the hon. Member, the intention of Government to do any thing in the present Session which could have any effect upon the trade. It was not at present necessary to consume the time of the House with a premature discussion upon the timber duties; and he had only to say, in addition, that he had no objection to the production of the papers asked for by the hon. Member, except, indeed, that they had been already granted upon the Motion of the member for Bridport.
 Lord Althorp  said, that it must be satisfactory to the House that the Motion of the hon. member for Sheffield had been so fully and fairly discussed. Without entering into the various topics which had been introduced during the discussion, he must remind the House, that the present Motion was not a Motion for the abolition of the system of impressment, for, on the contrary, every hon. Gentleman who had spoken upon the subject, had admitted that the system was necessary to the effective service of the State; but was merely for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire whether any means could be devised and adopted to mitigate the evils attributed to the present plan, and to make the naval service of the nation more popular by rendering instances of impressment more rare than at present. His right hon. friend at the head of the Admiralty had stated, that he was himself already proceeding in the same course as that suggested by the hon. member for Sheffield. His right hon. friend had also stated several measures which be had adopted, and which it was admitted were well calculated to increase the popularity of the naval service. What possible good could ensue from abolishing the system of impressment, until the proposed registration was proved to be an efficient measure? Would it not rather be an instance of most improvident legislation to destroy one source of obtaining men for the service of the navy before another could be tried and adopted? The Government had in preparation measures intended gradually to effect the object which it was now attempted, most unwisely, to attain by one step; yet hon. Members came down to the House, asked for a Committee of Inquiry, and took the measure out of the hands of Ministers, when it was in the proper train for arriving at eventual success. More than one hon. Member, however, had stated, in the course of the debate, that when he came down to the House he had entered it with the intention of voting in favour of the Motion, but that the clear statement of
 1107 G. Young:
 Lord Althorp  said, that his right hon. friend, the Secretary for Ireland, had not had time given him to consider the proposition of the hon. and learned Member. His right hon. friend now understood that the proposition was to make the Jury Law of Ireland like that of England; but he thought it at least desirable to wait until it was seen how the last Act had operated. He believed, that the principle of the English Jury Law applied to Ireland as far as it was at present possible to apply it. When a fair trial had been given to the Bill of last Session, he was not prepared to say, that much of what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member might not have his approbation. From want of technical knowledge as a lawyer he was not able to give a decided opinion; but he was inclined to think, from what had fallen from his right hon. friend, that, under the present circumstances, it was not desirable to concur in the Motion.
 Lord Althorp  said, that a continuance of the same course for which he had been prosecuted, was some and a sufficient reason for not showing him favour.
 Lord Ebrington  said, that he must protest against the expressions used by the hon. member for Colchester with respect to the petition; and he would add, that men more honest, and more incapable of being biased by unworthy motives, did not exist. There was another expression also which gave him great pain; for an hon. Member, whilst he admitted that the sentiments of the great land-owners were not in unison with those of the petitioners, insinuated that, in their dissent, they were actuated by their private connexion with Church patronage, or by their private interest as lay impropriators. On their part he threw back the expression; and be begged leave to say, that they were incapable of being actuated by other than the most honest and conscientious motives in the course which they had thought fit to take.
 Lord Ebrington  rose for the purpose of presenting a petition which had been intrusted to him from the owners and occupiers of land and other inhabitants, paying tithes, of both divisions of the county of Devon, and which had been agreed to at a public meeting of the county, most respectably and largely attended. The petitioners stated, that they had presumed to address the House of Commons, in consequence of understanding it to be the intention of his Majesty's Ministers to introduce a Bill during the present Session of Parliament, for effecting certain changes in the existing Tithe-laws. They complained that the demand for the tenth part of the gross produce of the land, by those who contributed nothing towards its production was at variance with the dictates of reason and the principles of justice, and most oppressively grievous, when, as frequently happened, the value of the whole crop did not equal the expense of raising it. They, therefore, prayed, that the subject of tithes might be taken into the serious consideration of
 1039
 Lord Howick , in rising to oppose the Motion which had been moved by the hon. Member opposite, thought it right to apologise to the hon. Member for not having expressed his intention of giving a determined opposition to the Motion; but he certainly had conceived that the hon. Member had understood from him that he was only to receive another communication in the event of the decision of Lord Melbourne being revoked. He was not aware, therefore, of the hon. Member being in expectation of receiving from him (Lord Howick) any intimation that could lead to the belief that he was disposed to acquiesce in the hon. Gentleman's proposition. He thought it necessary to state that he had learnt that some disappointment had been evinced at his not having been in the House at the morning sitting a few days back, when a similar petition to those presented to night, had been presented from the individual himself. He could only say, as an excuse for his absence, that it was only two days ago that he had heard that such a thing
 1119 1120 l Wigney: l 1121 1122 l 1123
 Colonel Torrens  presented three Petitions from Bolton, Lancashire, and its vicinity, praying for the Appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the Distress, which existed among the Hand-loom Weavers, and to adopt the most practicable mode of Relief. The first of those petitions was signed by 10,000 persons; the second by the Magistrates, the Boroughreeve, and the Clergy: and the third by forty-five of the manufacturers themselves. The prayer of the petition suggested the forming of Local Boards; or any other mode which could afford the desired relief. He was glad to find that his hon. friend (Mr. Maxwell) had given notice of a Motion to a similar effect; he begged of his Majesty's Government to give assent to it, and permit it to pass without any opposition. No doubt great benefit accrued to society from the introduction of power-looms; but they superseded hand-weaving, and of course threw the hand-weavers into great distress. It was seldom that a general change took place for the benefit of the public, without entailing partial distress on some particular class; and it was the duty of the public to relieve those classes which suffered. Whatever mode of relief might be suggested, it was clear that something ought to be done speedily; perhaps a more efficient mode of relief might be found out than what the petitioners suggested; but something should be done to afford speedy relief to their
 1145
 Mr. John Maxwell  said: Sir, in answer to the question of the member for Bolton, I beg to repeat my conviction of the benefit of such regulations as would secure to the weaver the utmost remuneration for his severe toil, which the interests of the trade, the fair profit of the manufacturer, and the means of the consumer, will permit. At present under the absence of such agreements, and compacts, or rather the absence of legislative sanction, the reckless speculations of persons with more ambition to drive an extensive sale than resources or sympathy, force labourers, in a famishing condition, to give their work at prices unnecessarily low for the consumer, and utterly ruinous to the workman and his family; and not only not beneficial but absolutely injurious to sound and substantial manufacturing establishments. For these wish to give and continue to give as good prices for labour as the selling price of their stocks allow, and are driven to low prices by the competition of speculators and half-paid weavers, by whose joint selfishness and misery they are undersold. Machinery, taxation, and protecting duties, united to absenteeism on the part of the rich, immigration on the part of the Irish poor, and reduction of soldiers and sailors, all contribute to this state of excessive supply of weavers, and low price of goods; and each and all of those obstacles to the adequate remuneration of labour are extremely aggravated by the deficient circulation of money under the Bank cash payment. Were the suffering of this industrious, moral, well-informed, and very numerous class of men to be beneficial to the community,
 1146
 Mr. Mark Philips  considered, that the tendency of the discussion which had taken place only showed that hon. Members were at variance as to the different nostrums that were calculated to remove the difficulties under which the petitioners laboured. Although he felt as deeply interested for the interests of the petitioners as for those of the manufacturer, he should consider himself as guilty of avowing a dishonest opinion if he held out any hope to them of relief by the establishment of boards of trade. If he was convinced that the adoption of such a course would benefit the petitioners, he would give the petition his most hearty support. Should, however, a Committee be appointed on the subject, and he had the honour of taking part in that Committee, no one would enter more zealously into the service than himself. He, however, was of opinion that no beneficial results could arise, and he would therefore not foster hopes and expectations that could not be realised.
 Mr. Fleetwood  said, if any person should stand up upon the present occasion it was himself. As the hon. member for Leeds had alluded to the Trades' Unions, he would say that the hand-loom weavers had borne their distress with a better grace than almost any other class. He thought the House should at once institute an inquiry into the extent of their distresses, if it were only to show that they were worthy of the attention of Government as well as any other class, and as a reward of the patience with which they had borne their sufferings. He gave his cordial support to the prayer of the petition.
 Mr. Ruthven  would confine himself strictly to the petition before the House. It was the petition of persons who had not found so many advocates in that House, as either the commercial or landed interests, and who had not so many friends as the Church Establishment or the tithes. These persons were destitute—they were reduced below what many persons could form an idea of. No person knew their condition better than the hon. member for Oldham, and the country ought to feel grateful to him for laying their case before that House. It was difficult to say what should be done for them—their wages were reduced so low, that they were unable to subsist. This had been caused by the vast increase of the productive manufacturers, which, although it had made fortunes for many, had reduced thousands to misery and poverty. Much of this
 1153
 Mr. Duncombe  said, that the best plan would be, to move for a Committee of Inquiry, where evidence on both sides could be taken. He must say, that the length to which these discussions ran, far exceeded the bounds of moderation; and it was impossible, that the business of the country could go on while the time of the House was occupied in discussing the merits of petitions. There were many other subjects which required the attention of that House, and 13 or 14 hon. Members were waiting with petitions to present upon various subjects, which it was impossible they could present, if the present plan were persevered in. He hoped hon. Gentlemen, in future, would abstain from consuming so much time in these discussions.
 Mr. O'Connell  then proceeded to move the Second Reading of the Carrickfergus Disfranchisement Bill. In doing so, he was exceedingly glad to congratulate the House on knowing that those who objected to some of the details of the Bill, did not object to the principle of the measure, and, therefore, that this reading of the Bill would not be opposed. This obviated the necessity of his trespassing at any length on the attention of the House. This much he desired to say; he had not volunteered this task,—on the contrary, he had desired to avoid it,—but it had been forced upon him as an imperative duty, in consequence of his having been the Chairman of a Committee which decided that Mr. Dobbs had been returned as the Representative of Carrickfergus by bribery and corruption. In the discharge of this duty he entertained not the slightest, party feeling. The Bill he brought in was simply for disfranchising the borough of Carrickfergus, without proposing any substitution. He did not think, however, it would be doing Ireland justice to take away one of her Representatives without substituting another in his place; and, in his opinion, if a substitution should take place, that substitution ought to be given to another part of the province of Ulster. He had understood it was the intention of
 1156 l l l 1157 l l 1158
 Mr. Halcombe , in rising to propose an Amendment, would only say, that, with regard to what had fallen from the hon. Member who had just sat down, and
 1159 1160 Hear" and laughter v 1161
 Mr. Halcombe  therefore altered his Motion as follows: "That the further proceedings of the House on this Bill be suspended, and that the House do resolve itself into a Committee on the 19th of March."
 Mr. Halcombe  said, he was but a young Member, and must ask instructions how he was to proceed. His wish was, that further proceedings on the Bill should be suspended, and that the House should resolve itself into a Committee on the 19th instant.
 Mr. Halcombe  would move only the first part of his Amendment, "That the House would, on the 19th of March instant, resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House to take into consideration the Report and evidence of the two Committees with respect to the borough of Carrickfergus."
 Mr. Ruddel Todd  was a member of the Committee, and thought the evidence of the bribery complete. He, therefore, should oppose the Amendment.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the number of
 1163
 Mr. O'Connell  explained. The course which they had agreed to adopt was, if the second reading was carried, on a Motion in Committee by the hon. member for Belfast, the question should be discussed, whether the franchise of the 10 l
 Mr. O'Connell , in reply, stated, that he had undertaken the conduct of the Bill with the greatest reluctance, and that he was at any time prepared to give it up with the greatest delight. As long, how-
 1172
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  moved that the Bill for disfranchising the Borough of Stafford be read a second time. He contended that the evidence taken before the Committee proved there was no nucleus in Stafford for the formation of an independent and honest constituency. He should be happy if any other course could be devised to satisfy the House; but he, at the same time, did not believe that further inquiry would lead to any beneficial result. It might, perhaps, be said that a case had not been made out for disfranchising this borough; but if it were proved, as it undoubtedly was, that a majority of the electors of this borough had been guilty of bribery and corruption, he should like to know what other course could be followed than that which he proposed? The number of electors of all classes who voted at the last election for Stafford was 1,049, and of that number at least four-fifths were proved to have received money. It would, however, be for the House to determine whether that were a sufficient proportion to justify the disfranchisement of the borough. When the House had determined on purifying the constituency of the country generally—when nomination and rotten boroughs had been put an end to—he should like to know whether, in a case like the present, the interests of private individuals ought to stand in the way of the public good. If the House refused to interfere in the case of Stafford, hundreds of similar cases would in all probability occur; and unless they put down corruption by vigorous means the reforms which had been effected would soon become a dead letter. The hon. Baronet then moved that this Bill be read a second time.
 Mr. Halcombe  hoped the same justice that was dealt out to other boroughs would be granted to the borough of Stafford. His principal object, in rising, was to call the attention of the House to a distinction that existed between this case and the case of the other boroughs against which corruption had been alleged. In the case of the borough of Stafford no Election
 1173
 Mr. Halcombe  rose, and, amidst much
 1178 l
 Mr. Halcombe  said, that the hon. Baronet's reply could only be accounted for by deafness on his part. He had not asked him who had drawn up the petition, but who had drawn up the Report of the Committee of which he was Chairman.
 Mr. Halcombe  said, it seemed to him to be very extraordinary that the Chairman of a Committee should not know to whom the task of drawing up the Report of their proceedings had been confided. But to return to the two respectable petitions. Whilst the one in favour of the extension of the elective privilege was signed by only 633 l l l 1179 l 1180 "Oh, oh," "Hear, hear, hear," and confusion
 Mr. Halcombe  said, there was a petition to that effect.
 The Chairman  suggested, that the preamble was before the Committee, and it would be better to defer the Amendment until the enacting clause was under consideration.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  contended, that the private interests of Leamington ought not to outweigh a public good. He should, therefore, support the Bill as it stood; but it was the only Bill of the four disfranchising Bills that he could support.
 Mr. Halcombe  rose, and was proceeding to address some remarks to the Committee, but was so frequently interrupted by-laughter and ironical cheers, that
 Mr. Halcombe  again rose to speak, and was proceeding to vindicate a petition from Banbury, when he was again interrupted by the cries of " Hear, hear Hear
 Mr. John Stanley  said, that he had only expressed his admiration at the conduct of the hon. and learned Member in the way which admiration and approbation were usually expressed in that House, The hon. Member had, that evening, risen five times to defend the parties who were delinquents before the House, and as he had presumed that the hon. Member had risen a sixth time for a similar purpose, he had expressed his admiration at the candour of such conduct.
 The Chairman  said, he had no doubt the feeling of the Committee was to discuss the subject fully and patiently. Hon. Members, however, would probably feel that they could not be exempt from those signs of impatience which would sometimes occur.
 Mr. Halcombe  said, that he should make no further allusion to the personal interruption he had experienced. The hon. Member then defended the petition from Banbury, and contended that it did honour to those who had signed it, among whom was the dearest connexion he had upon earth. In rising so often to address the House, he had merely discharged his duty. The hon. Member adverted to the evidence taken before the Committee on the Warwick election, in as far as it referred to fictitious votes, and contended, that it proved that the pink and blue party had made more than 100 fictitious votes just previous to the passing of the Reform Act. He also contended, that it appeared by the evidence of General Master and others, that, where the party implicated by the Report of the Committee had made one fictitious vote, the pink and blue party had made four. He denied that the influence of the Castle was considerable in the borough of Warwick, or that it had been exercised there; but he would ask, what was the predominant influence in the town of Leamington? It was that of the hon. member for Banbury. Mr. Tomes was a great shareholder in the pump-room, and the largest householder, and in those circumstances were to be found the real spring to the present proceedings. With respect to the money which had been expended, the amount was not at all exorbitant, and was easily accounted for.
 Mr. Halcombe  asked the hon. Member if he could say that the Report had not been so drawn up?
 Captain Chetwynd  said, that in justice to the constituency he had the honour to represent, he should feel it his duty to oppose the Motion of the hon. Baronet for the second reading of this Bill. The Report on which it was founded was full of inaccuracies, and this would be manifest on the face of it to any hon. Gentleman who was at the trouble of reading it. In the first place, it was untrue that a sufficient opportunity had been afforded by the Committee to rebut the charges. He had himself applied for the names of the witnesses who had been examined, but it was not until after the lapse of two or three days that an imperfect list was furnished him. He meant no disrespect to the Committee by this statement, and merely used it as a fact among others to show that full justice had not been done to the parties inculpated by the Report. Again, it was not, as the hon. Baronet stated, true that a majority of the electors had accepted bribes. The number out of the 1,049 voters who had been proved to have acted corruptly did not exceed 344. The hon. Member quoted the evidence at considerable length, and commented on it to show, that it was in many particulars most inaccurate. He then observed, that because a minority had been guilty of disreputable conduct, to punish the majority, on whom no imputation could rest, would be a great injustice. He must say, that such a proceeding would be most unjust. Severity of punishment was not, however, the best way of correcting abuses, or putting a stop to bribery; and if, therefore, instead of disfranchising the borough, they were to augment the number of the constituency, they would accomplish all that could be desired. The greater part of the voters were anxious to vindicate themselves from the imputation of corruption which had been alleged against them, and it was by them suggested in two peti-
 1174
 Sir John Byng  apologised for the breach of order, and assured the hon. and learned member for Dover that it had not arisen from any want of personal respect towards him. He spoke as Chairman of one of the Committees, and, in his opinion, the
 1162
 Sir John Byng  felt himself called on to disclaim having made use of the ex-
 1166
 Sir John Byng  could but congratulate the hon. Member on the unenviable position he had taken up as the champion of all the corrupt boroughs.
 Mr. Langdale  would say, that to the best of his knowledge it had not. The evidence not only justified the Report, but the Committee had no choice, if they did their duty, but to make it.
 Mr. Langdale  had been a member of the Committee, and denied that any person not a member of the Committee had drawn up the Report, as had been stated by the hon. member for Dover.
 Lord John Russell  said, when the question was regularly brought on, he would not object to inquiry. But the proper business, he thought, should be allowed to go on.
 Lord John Russell  saw nothing in the statement of the hon. member for Dover to induce him to vote for the course proposed by him, in preference to that proposed by his hon. and gallant friend. If the allegations of the hon. Gentleman were well founded, they might be a good reason for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into them; but he saw no reason why the appointment of such a Committee should prevent the House from proceeding with the Bill. He, therefore, without taking into consideration the propriety of appointing a Committee, at a future period, to inquire into the circumstances alleged by the hon. Member, would vote for the Motion of his hon. and gallant friend; and he could but say, that he considered the present course taken by the hon. member for Dover as an unwarrantable and unreasonable interruption.
 Lord John Russell  did not think it was right that Ministers should, on such occasions, take a part as a Government, in the discussion, so as to influence the opinions and votes of that House. Certainly, if they did so, the evil complained of most justly by the right hon. Baronet, of bringing party influence to bear on such questions, would, instead of being removed, be greatly and alarmingly increased. But as a Member of that House, he had, in former times, paid a good deal of attention to questions of this kind, and having gone through some very laborious inquiries, he had certainly thought it his duty to apply the best of his judgment to the different cases in detail. The right hon. Baronet complained, that, in the present instance, they had not had an examination that established the case upon oath before the Committee, and that it ought to be instituted at the Bar of the House. With regard to the latter part of the objection, the right hon. Gentleman said, in that respect, answering his own objection, that there were so many cases, that the time of the House would be entirely taken up if it were insisted on conducting the examinations at the Bar of the House. With respect to the other point, it was certainly a great and serious objection; but it was the misfortune, and not the fault, of that House. For several years he had proposed Bills to that House, which it had shown itself most willing to adopt, by which the examinations into such questions by Committees should be conducted upon oath; being empowered to summon witnesses, and go through the whole of the case, in order to enable the House to arrive at a proper judicial decision. A bill of this nature, had, two years ago, passed that House, but was rejected by the House of Lords. He had also brought in a bill of the same character last year, which had received very serious and ample discussion before a Select Committee; but he had been induced to refrain from proceeding with it in consequence of the pressure of other questions of great magnitude and importance, then demanding
 1167 l bonâ fide 1168 l.
 Lord John Russell  thought that there was quite sufficient evidence before the House to justify their proceeding with the Bill. If, however, the hon. Member for Belfast proposed that an inquiry should take place before a Select Committee he would not oppose it. If there were sufficient 10 l
 Colonel Leith Hay  having been a member of the second Committee of last Session, wished to say a few words in consequence of what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) in his remarks
 1170
 Mr. Forster  thought, that if there were sufficient evidence to attach a charge of corruption and dereliction of duty on any of the electors of the borough of Stafford, the Attorney-General should have been instructed to proceed against such persons for their offence, rather than bring the case thus generally and confusedly before that House. What had that House done in the prosecution of this inquiry? Why, so far from punishing the offending parties for their misconduct, they had actually passed a Bill of Indemnity in favour of all those who gave evidence in proof of misdeeds in which they had themselves participated. He must urge the House not to disfranchise the whole borough of Stafford, interesting as it was by its association with the name of Sheridan, because some part of its constituency had misbehaved themselves; but rather to follow the same course as they were about to adopt in regard to the borough of Warwick, where great bribery had been proved to exist, that of increasing, rather than destroying, its elective constituency.
 Mr. Tower  maintained, that a case had been made out to justify the disfranchisement of the borough. With regard to what had fallen from the hon. Baronet, respecting the use of the terms gross bribery, as applied to the electors of Warwick, he (Mr. Tower) contended, that the Committee were perfectly justified in using that language. It was not to be supposed that, because they had only proved twenty-one cases of bribery, no more had occurred. When the Committee made out that number of cases, they thought it quite sufficient for their purpose.
 Mr. Baines  supported the prayer of the petition. There was no description of persons in this country who laboured under greater distress than the hand-loom weavers, who had suffered the most extreme privations from the difficulty of obtaining a proper price for their labour. In so saying, he did not wish to be considered as attacking the use of machinery, which had extended itself to the great benefit of the country at large. He thought the recommendation in the petition of the establishment of local boards of trade deserved the serious consideration of the House; he thought they would do much good, for they would combine the masters and the workmen in one common object, and prevent the institution of the trades' unions, which brought the masters and workmen into collision. He therefore, supported the prayer of the petition, but without pledging himself to all its details; for with some of the inferences to be drawn from it he could not conscientiously agree.
 Mr. Edward Buller  was well acquainted with the borough of Stafford, and perfectly concurred in the opinion, that equal weight was not to be given to evidence not taken upon oath, as to that which was sworn to; but he could not agree with the hon. member for Newport (Mr. Ord), that the witnesses were reluctant ones. The fact was, that Stafford was the very hot-bed of dissension. They were there ready to tear each other to pieces, to inflict deathblows for the gratification of their personal animosities. William Dudley's evidence was opposed. He had stated he never was bribed, which was contrary to an hon. Member's assertion. Biddulph's evidence was in opposition; but Biddulph came forward from party feeling. In the contest it was, he admitted, strange that Mr. Blount should have had 161 votes, and Mr. Chetwynd, who was so nearly connected with the town, only 121. Mr. Blount had not been much known. He was the agent of a nobleman, Lord Stafford, who did not reside there. All the objections that could be mooted would be obviated by the junction of the neighbourhood from which, as had been before stated, a pure constituency might be obtained. Warwick and Stafford, it was admitted, were equally guilty. And why, then, should Stafford be treated with greater forbearance? Treating and bribery, he considered, were equally criminal. He saw no difference in the shade of guilt of him who gorged himself with ale and hot suppers, and those who felt the gold and spent it at home. One, indeed, might be considered more brutal than the others. In Warwick 4,990 l 1176
 Mr. Littleton  had given a close examination to the evidence, but before he stated what the result of that examination was, he would observe, that he considered it very unfortunate that the House had not a better and more efficient mode of taking testimony. He hoped that before the next Session of Parliament his noble friend near him would bring in the same Bill which he had introduced in the last Session of Parliament, to enable a Committee to take testimony upon oath. After reading the evidence, the bias of his mind certainly was in favour of totally disfranchising the present constituency of Carrickfergus. If the hon. Gentleman, however, could show that there was any mode of obtaining an honest 10 l
 Mr. Aglionby , being a Member of both Select Committees which had sat on the Carrickfergus election, was anxious to address a few observations to the House. Being altogether free from prejudice in this matter, the first question he had proposed to himself was, whether they should inflict individual hardship for public good? and in that he agreed with the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel), that cases might occur in which such a course was the obvious and direct duty of the House. The next point he had to decide was, whether there was any thing which might lead him to believe, that there could be a full, fair, and honest constituency left after disfranchising those who might be con-
 1169
 Mr. Goulburn  recollected similar cases of imputed fraud in petitioners, in which inquiry was instituted. In one case, when the facts were true, the House marked strongly its sense of the conduct
 1181
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that if bribery were proved, he would not deny that the House should disfranchise, or incorporate the constituency with some other. But there should be sufficient evidence of the fact. Now, in the present case, there were only twenty-one voters who were proved to be corrupt. Of these, ten voted for one candidate and ten for another; and those bribed voters were non-residents. The proper plan would be, not to visit the sins of a few on all, but to disqualify the corrupt. One hon. Gentleman had stated that he would vote for disfranchisement, not because of the corruption, but of the undue influence of the Earl of Warwick. Now, the conduct of the Earl of Warwick was not before the House, and there was no evidence to prove undue influence. On the contrary, it appeared from the evidence of Colonel Stuart, that the candidate supported at
 1182 teste
 Mr. Goulburn  again rose to order. He was quite sure that, the Committee must see the necessity of avoiding such personal altercations if any subject was to be discussed. The hon. and learned Member behind him (Mr. Halcombe) had naturally felt irritated at the manner in which he had been interrupted, and had perhaps expressed himself in a manner which, in calmer moments, he would not have adopted. He could not, however, but
 1184
 Mr. Goulburn  rose to order. He put it to every hon. Member of the Committee whether such a mode of treating the statements or arguments brought before it was likely to raise or support its character as a judicial body. If the Committee were too fatigued to pursue the subject further, surely it would be better for it to adjourn than by impatience to prevent hon. Members from being heard.
 Mr. Emerson Tennent  said, a petition from Carrickfergus was now lying on the Table of the House, offering to prove that an uncorrupted constituency could be found.
 Mr. Tennent  said, that 240 freemen out of 885 were proved to have been corrupt, but that there was not a tittle of evidence against the remainder. The number of freeholders and householders was 144, and there was no evidence against them.
 Mr. Emerson Tennent  said, that, so far from opposing the Motion of the hon. and learned Member, he should give it his most cordial support. He was prepared to visit, to the extremity of severity which that House was authorised to exert, every and any individual who might be convicted of violating or abusing his elective franchise. He was as anxious as the hon. and learned Member could be, to see every individual who had been guilty of bribery at the late Carrickfergus election disfranchised. It was for the purpose of carrying that into effect, that he was willing to vote for the second reading of this Bill. But he did not hesitate to say, that he differed altogether with the hon. and learned Gentleman, as to the extent to which he wished to carry his propositions. He was willing to admit, that bribery had been carried on, to a certain extent, by one class of the electors; but it did not, therefore, follow, that this bribery had extended among them all. He should be prepared to show to the House, on the committal of this Bill, that the Carrickfergus constituency was, as a constituency, unimpeachable. The hon. member for Dover had a Motion, he believed, with regard to the business before the House. He hoped that the hon. Member would see the propriety of withdrawing that Motion, as he (Mr. Tennent) should, for one, oppose it; and he should oppose it on the same principle as he voted for the second reading of the Bill before the House.
 Mr. Fielden  remarked, that two hours and a-half had been spent yesterday upon a subject not more important than the one now under consideration. A numerous
 1151 s d s d d s d s d No, no. d
 Mr. Hardy  thought, that in a short time the Table of the House would be loaded with petitions from hand-loom weavers, if the present system of exporting the raw material to foreign countries were suffered to go on. In the year 1832, millions of pounds of wool and yarn had been exported and manufactured in foreign countries, and then these countries, as they could get the yarn, imposed a duty upon the manufactured article, so that it was impossible for the manufacturer in England to compete with them. The raw material which used to be the support of thousands of industrious persons, was sent abroad, and thus the means of employment was taken from the hand-loom weavers, either of cotton or woollen goods. If it was necessary that the artisans of the country should be supported, the House should at once interpose, and put a stop to the further exportation of the raw material.
 Mr. Methuen , said the hon. member for Oldham had needlessly wasted the time
 1152
 Mr. Fryer  contended, that they could not have a better constituency than that which might be derived from the union of Stafford, Stone, and Eccleshall; and He
 1175
 Mr. Bolling  bore testimony to the privations under which the petitioners were suffering. He did not know whether a Board of Trade was applicable to their situation. One had been instituted, however, at Glasgow, and voluntarily adopted by the masters themselves. He begged to call the particular attention of the House to the propriety of appointing a Select Committee to inquire into the grievances of the petitioners, with a view of remedying them.
 Mr. Cobbett  did not see, that the House deserved the lecture which the hon. Gentleman had read to them. He was told, that the petition embraced 70,000 persons; and he was told by his hon. Colleague, that there were 600,000 persons in the same state of distress, and, therefore, if that were not a subject worthy of their attention, he knew not what was. He considered, that their constituents would be better contented with their conduct in discussing that petition, than if they had passed it over without comment. He, at least, must say, that he most cordially supported its prayer.
 Mr. Gillon  begged earnestly to support the prayer of these petitioners, and to call for the sympathies of the House on behalf of this most respectable, most industrious, most intelligent, yet most oppressed class of his Majesty's subjects. Hon. Members were probably not aware of the immense numbers dependent on the hand-loom for their support. It appeared from the investigation before the Committee of last Session, that they amounted to not less than half a million; and he was sure that the estimate was rather under than over the truth. The hon. member for Ipswich, in seconding the address, in the statement of manufacturing and commercial prosperity which he had made to the House, and which he believed existed only in the brain of the hon. Member himself, had alluded, among others, to the hand-loom weavers; he had stated,
 1148 s d s s d s 1149
 Mr. James  expressed himself in favour of so extensive a franchise as would render bribery impossible. In fact, he thought it should be universal; no man had a sufficiently long purse to bribe a whole community [Some hon. Member called, "Liverpool."] He was aware, that corruption had existed in that borough, of which he was a freeman; and it had first commenced when the present Lord Chancellor went down in 1812 to contest it with Mr. Canning. He could not help thinking, that these disfranchisement bills were partial and unjust, because they invariably confounded the innocent with the guilty.
 Mr. Ord  could not recollect any attempt to make out a case that had so signally failed as that which was made on the present occasion. There had been a total failure of the attempt to impeach the credibility of the witnesses; and, in his opinion, the Committee succeeded in laying before the House sufficient grounds for the entire disfranchisement of the borough of Stafford—a mode of dealing with the matter infinitely preferable to any extension of the franchise to the adjoining district, or to any towns in the neighbourhood; besides, if they did not adopt that course, they would lose a good opportunity of setting an example that might, and he was sure would, be beneficial to the country at large,—that would act as a warning to electors, and be received as an evidence of the value which a Reformed Parliament set upon the suffrages of unbought and independent electors. He, therefore, hoped that the Bill, as it at present stood, might pass into a law.
 Mr. William Roche  begged his hon. and learned friend's permission to intrude for a few moments on his privilege, by offering to the right hon. the Secretary for Ireland, a few remarks on a subject arising out of the interchange of some observations which took place yesterday evening, between the right hon. Secretary and his (Mr. Roche's) hon. and
 1154 1155
 The Speaker  said, it was impossible for the human mind to suggest any distinct or positive plan for such a purpose. It must be left to the discretion of each individual Member. The subject-matter of petitions was of so very varied a nature—some were of so slight, and some of so serious a character—some were so intricate, and others so clear, that it must be quite obvious, as they varied in their nature, the option of dwelling upon them at greater length, or not, would occur to different persons. As he had said before, that must be left to the discretion of hon. Members, who could have no object in wasting the time of the House. Anything not referable to the subject of the petition, was a waste of the time of the House. He believed, if persons presenting petitions, confined themselves to the subject matter of such petitions, less time would be employed.
 The Speaker  said, the hon. Member could not put his Motion in that shape.
 The Speaker  said, that this was only the converse of what the hon. Member had before put. The hon. Member's object was to get the House to resolve itself into a Committee, to consider certain Reports, and then, if they adopted his Motion, that they follow his further views upon the case.
 The Speaker  did not see how such a Motion could be put. If the hon. Member wished to submit any Motion, he must proceed according to the regulations of the House.
 The Speaker  requested the hon. Member to address himself to the question and not to the person, and still less ought he to address any person in that House disparagingly.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  was not in favour of disfranchisement. He thought that it would be much better to make it imperative for every Member to swear at the Table that he had not been guilty either directly or indirectly of bribery. He was as desirous as any Member to put down corruption, but, in his opinion, that object would be better attained by punishing the Member or candidate who was guilty of it. With respect to the present case, the evidence taken before the Committee was of so loose a character that no reliance ought to be placed upon it. It ought also to be observed, that there was not a word affecting the 10 l
 Sir Francis Burdett  considered it necessary, in consequence of the course taken upon the presenting of the petition, to draw the attention of the House to the adoption of some regulation for the government of its own proceedings. If discussions like the present were to take place upon the presentation of every petition, it would be impossible that the business of the country could be carried on. Numbers of hon. Members were waiting to present petitions, and if no limit were given to discussions upon questions, perhaps that would never be brought before the House—if abstract principles of trade were to be talked of for hours together, it would be impossible that half the Members of that House could present their petitions. He was sure, that every Member would agree with him, that the removal of the distress of the country equally animated the breast of every Member in that House, but unless some different practice was adopted, it was impossible that all the distresses of the country could be made
 1150
 Sir Grey Skipwith  said, knowing the feeling of the people of Leamington, he wished to rescue them from the injustice they would suffer by being joined to Warwick. The people of Leamington were seriously alarmed at the prospect of the change, from the risk of deterioration to which it would subject their property. He would, therefore, move, "that the words 'the limits of the said borough of Warwick, as far as respects the election of Members to serve in Parliament, shall comprise the parish of Leamington Priors, do not stand part of the Bill."
 Mr. Henry Bulwer  differed in opinion from the hon. Baronet, and deprecated all such remarks. It was of importance, that his Majesty's Government, and the country at large, should be put in possession of the feelings of the people, and be made to know the particular wants of particular classes; surely that could not be effected by any means except by presenting petitions and describing their contents. The subject before the House was a very important one; he differed from a great authority upon a main point of it. He differed from the hon. Gentleman on the left, who considered the establishment of Boards of Trade impracticable. There were many instances to prove the good effects of Boards of Trade. Let them look at France, and the continent in general, and they would find what had been effected by their institution. The corporations of France were, in a great measure, destroyed at the period of the Revolution. The consequence was,' that perpetual hostilities occurred between different classes; and those hostilities were found to cease in proportion as the old institutions were re-established. He agreed with the general prayer of the petition, and must urge the adoption of some mode of redress for the petitioners.
 Mr. Ward  confessed, that he had entered the House with no little curiosity to hear what the hon. and gallant member for Stafford would say in defence of that borough; and, though he must admit, that his hon. and gallant friend had taken up and handled, with the greatest ability, every point that could be urged in favour of his case, his hon. friend's arguments had not had the effect of shaking his opinion upon the merits of the case. He really thought that, after the ample inquiry which had been devoted to this subject, both in the Committee above-stairs and by the House, there could not remain any grounds for a division of sentiment. He would, therefore, not detain the House with any discussion, though there were one or two points on which he could not but make a remark. In reference to the witness Biddulph, whose character had been called in question in the course of those discussions, he must say, he thought the treatment that individual had experienced was hardly worthy of that House. With regard to the alleged case of a stolen watch, he (Mr. Ward), as one of the Committee, had been deputed to investigate the matter; and, being so appointed, had pushed his inquiries until he really was ashamed of going any further. There really was not the shadow of a ground for the accusation. He had now only one observation to urge against retaining to Stafford its elective franchise, and that was, the difficulty of finding a constituency for that borough. An hon. baronet had stated, that there were 434 unimpeachable freemen in that borough. He was not prepared to admit this; he did not wish to assume the guilt of any of those individuals; yet, on the other hand, he did not feel inclined to assume the innocence of all of them. Some of the witnesses before the Committee, when asked upon this point, said there might be 300, others 200, voters in the town above taking a bribe; perhaps, even the latter number might be beyond the fact. Now, the propriety of including neighbouring places in the elective franchise of any corrupt borough must depend upon
 1177
 Sir George Phillips  said, that some of the remarks made by the hon. Member (Mr. Halcombe) were rather singular. He had accused his (Sir George's) hon. friend, the member for Banbury, of seeking the disfranchisement of Warwick, in order that the borough of Leamington, in which he was a large proprietor, might have the elective franchise extended to it. He thought it extraordinary that the hon. Gentleman should come forward, as be had done, with such a statement. The fact was, that so far from Leamington wishing to have the elective franchise, a large majority of the 10 l
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, the question was, not whether Leamington or Kenilworth should be enfranchised, when the franchise was in the possession of the House, but whether a case had been made out which would justify the disfranchisement of Warwick. It was not pretended that the majority of the electors were guilty. Had they been so, it would have been but right that the minority should have been punished along with them. But he con-
 1186
 Sir Robert Peel , after the explanation of the noble Lord, would not vote against the second reading of the Bill.
 Sir Robert Peel  had not defended the conduct of the electors of Carrickfergus, as had been supposed. He had said, that if corruption prevailed in that place to the extent stated, it ought to be punished as a warning to others. He thought, if the House determined to proceed with the Bill, that it would be more convenient to enter into the investigation in the morning sittings. The inquiry would probably be got through in three sittings; but if it were thought that would interfere too much with the public business, it would be better to appoint a Select Committee.
 Sir Robert Peel , being now called upon to exercise functions of a judicial nature, felt himself bound to state to the House why he for one did not think himself competent to discharge that duty satisfactorily. He had no personal interest whatever in the borough of Carrickfergus, and it was a matter of indifference whether it were or were not disfranchised; but before the House divided on the principle of the Bill under consideration, which destroyed for ever the right of voting in that large and respectable town of the sister kingdom, he ventured to ask whether it possessed sufficient information to enable it satisfactorily to pronounce a judicial opinion on the question? If the hon. member behind him (Mr. Halcombe) felt a deep impression that the House was not in a condition to act judicially with perfect impartiality—if he felt it incumbent on him to call the attention of the House to this difficulty—he did not think that the hon. Member was open to sarcasms, or that he ought to be taunted as the champion of corruption. The hon. Member might act as the champion of this borough, and without any other motive than that of seeing impartial justice administered. If general corruption were proved against any borough, he could readily conceive many cases in which there would be no alternative but to make a public example, although this should be done at the expense of many unimpeachable individuals in it. Though private individuals might sustain private wrong; yet a borough might justly be disfranchised if, as a borough, it was disqualified to perform its duty of electing proper Representatives for that House. Public consideration, in that case, would overweigh private feelings; but before he came to any such determination, he must take care to know the precise extent of the corruption that prevailed. In neither of the Reports—the Report of the Election Committee, nor the Report of the Select Committee—was there any information as to the proportion of corrupt votes.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the House must perceive, from the statements of the two hon. Members, how little was known of the facts of the case. The Committee had not given a detail of the facts on which the House was now called to act judicially. They were called on to affirm that, "Gross and scandalous corruption had prevailed at the late election for the town of Carrickfergus, and that the great proportion of the constituency, composed of freemen of the Corporation, were influenced solely by bribery in giving their votes; that similar practices have prevailed at former elections; and that the borough should, therefore, be excluded from hereafter returning a burgess to serve in Parliament." Now, that gross and scandalous bribery did prevail, he could, perhaps, with a safe conscience pronounce; but surely the parties who received the bribes, and still more, those who offered them, were the just objects on whom to visit the penalty. They were called on to dispossess the town of its franchise; but, before any opinion could be pronounced in favour of its forfeiture, it was necessary to know the precise state of the facts of the case, the details of the alleged corruption, and the extent to which it had prevailed. The charge of bribery, as it now stood, applied to the constituency generally. But there were two classes of voters in this borough, the freemen and the 10 l 1164 l l l 1165
 Sir Ronald Ferguson  moved, that the House resolve into a Committee on the Warwick Election Bill.
 Sir Ronald Ferguson  said, he knew nothing about the person who drew up the petition alluded to.
 Sir Ronald Ferguson  said, the object of the present Motion was, to prevent the House, by a side-wind, from disfranchising the town of Warwick; and every one in the House should see the necessity of not concurring in any thing that would stop the proceedings relative to that town.
 Sir Ronald Ferguson  said, he did not know who had drawn up that Report.
 Sir Ronald Ferguson  said, the right hon. Member imagined there was no crime without direct bribery. But when he found persons receiving presents not only before the  teste
 Lord Eastnor  said, it had been admitted on all hands, that a large proportion of the 10 l
 Lord Lumley  considered, that certainly the time of that House might be occupied unfairly by some hon. Members presenting too many petitions from their own constituents, to the exclusion of others; but he would say, that no petition deserved the attention and time of the House more than the present, which had been submitted to it.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, he had only one word to say upon one of the petitions presented by the hon. Gentleman. He thought the petitioners of Cupar might have waited till the reverend Prelates had expressed a wish to be relieved from their duties in the House of Lords, before they so kindly interfered in their behalf. He was very happy to see the petition was written on a very small piece of paper. Therefore he drew the inference, that the feeling against the Bishops had not grown to such an extent as stated by the hon. Member.
 Mr. Cayley  said the Corn-laws had existed for a period of 400 years, and it was necessary to go back to the year 1436, and trace their operation down to the present moment, distinctly to understand their nature and effect.
 Colonel Torrens  said, that, in rising to
 1217 1218 1219 1220 1221 1222 Hear, Hear 1223
 Mr. Gilbert J. Heatkcote , as the Representative of one of the largest agricultural counties in England, could not but trespass a few moments upon the attention of the House. It was a fact but too well acknowledged, that the interests of the land had so fallen as to be of little or no value at all to the holders; and that fanners gained no profit for their capital and labour, whilst the landlord's rents were reduced to a mere nothing. Rents and rates had changed places; and while the whole population of the kingdom had very much increased, the agricultural population was diminished, not only in England, but in Scotland and Wales. The hon. member for Middlesex had said, that the Corn-laws were for the benefit of the few, and not for the many. If this were a question affecting the interests of the landlords only, he would not say a word on it; but on the part of a very numerous portion of his Majesty's subjects, the small gentry, the yeomanry, and the labouring population of the country at large, as well as the artisans of small provincial towns who supplied those agriculturists with implements and
 1250 1251 s s s d 1252
 Mr. Hope Johnstone  admitted, that the system required alteration, but did not approve of the hon. Member's Motion. It implied, that the Magistrates had abused their power, which he did not believe, and he, therefore, could not give his consent to the introduction of the proposed Bill. He was not prepared to pass
 1265
 General Sharpe , in opposing the proposed measure, begged leave to say, that he was guided by convictions founded on experience—not of yesterday—and cared nothing whatever as to what was alleged touching slurs cast on the character of the Magistracy. Whatever might be the imperfections of the present system, he conceived that matters, so far from being mended, would be made far worse, were certain theoretical plans adopted. It seemed to be quite certain that, excepting where they resided in his own immediate neighbourhood, the Sheriff could know nothing of the characters of the applicants for licences; in such circumstances he would naturally enough apply for information to the neighbouring Magistrates; and, acting on the information of these Magistrates, would at once decide a question which, as it now stood, was competent to be appealed to a fuller court. He was, by the way, somewhat surprised to hear the hon. member for Middlesex lecturing his friend for assuming, as he termed it, that the law in England had been altered. Why, the hon. Member was himself totally in error, and had confounded the ale and spirit licences, the latter of which were granted in Special Sessions, which were precisely similar to the Scotch Courts. As to the argument of the hon. member for Greenock, his humble opinion was, that it was the very best argument that could be used in favour of the Courts as they stood, and he would resist any change, unless upon much stronger grounds. If the system be wrong, ask for a general revision in both countries; and, on this ground, he
 1266
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  would not have troubled the House with a single observation, had he not been called upon by the hon. Member, who presented a petition from a portion of his (Mr. Johnston's) constituents. The history of that petition was this:—A meeting of the Town Council of Cupar was called, and a petition respecting Church patronage was proposed. An amendment, containing the spirit of the present petition, for the severance of Church and State, was moved as an amendment, without the slightest notice, and it was carried by a majority of only
 1195
 Mr.Cumming Bruce  was convinced, that the Magistrates acted already under responsibility, and he knew of no instance in which their power had been improperly exercised. He would oppose the Motion.
 Mr. Baines  thought the best argument in favour of a repeal of the Corn-laws, was the present state of the country. Agriculture was never in a more flourishing state than before their existence, and since they had been brought into operation, the country altogether had never been in a more depressed state.
 Mr. Edward Buller  said, that though
 1261 s s s d s 1262 s d s d s s
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  said, that although he should oppose the Motion of the hon. member for Middlesex, still, he agreed with that hon. Member, that the question was one that ought to be immediately settled. If foreign corn were admitted free of duty into Ireland, it would do the greatest injury to that country, which was essentially agricultural, and would throw out of employment immense numbers of persons engaged in agricultural pursuits. The people of Ireland were now but poor consumers; but, if they were thrown out of the corn market, they would be still poorer consumers both of English and Irish natural or manufactured produce. Irish exports, such as butter, pork, &c. were, upon an average, one-third less in price than they were during the war. They were told that this measure would give cheap food; but what was the use of having bread at 5 d d 1247
 Mr. Abercromby  bore testimony to the respectability of the petition. In his opinion a great national misfortune had resulted from what he thought a great legislative error, in departing from the principle of free trade in corn. The sooner the Legislature retraced their steps, the more advantageous it would be for the country, but how that was to be effected he would not presume to say; he thought
 1197
 Mr. Ewing  bore testimony to the respectability of the petition, which, as his hon. colleague had stated, was signed by nearly 60,000 persons. He agreed too in a great measure with the prayer of the petition, but against that part of it which prayed for a total repeal of the Corn-laws he totally dissented, because he conceived that some tax proportionate to the burthens of the State, should be placed upon the importation of foreign corn, for the protection of the agriculturists of this country. He would agree to the admission of foreign grain upon payment of a fixed and moderate duty, but he did not think that the total repeal of the Corn-laws would be advantageous.
 Mr. James Oswald  presented a Petition from Glasgow, signed by upwards of 59,000 persons, for the repeal of the Corn-laws. It was got up at a public meeting at which the Chief Magistrate of that city presided, and it was again submitted to another public meeting, at which the Chief Magistrate also presided. Amongst the signatures were those of all the Magistrates of the city of Glasgow, excepting one, and it had been signed by that large number of persons in the course of last week. The greatest enthusiasm was manifested in signing it—the shopkeepers opened their shops for that purpose, and it was carried without putting the public to any expense. Whatever difference of opinion respecting the Corn-laws there might be in other parts of the kingdom, there did not exist a more general and determined opposition to them anywhere than in the city of Glasgow—a city in which education was more generally diffused than in almost any other part. The petitioners stated, that they received with deep disappointment the resolution of Ministers to resist any measure that would tend to relieve the country, by repealing the laws which prevented the free importation of grain. In these sentiments he cordially concurred, and he regretted the declaration of the Government that these laws should not be taken into consideration. He was sorry that there appeared a feeling, if of not going back, at least of standing still in the matter of Reform. There appeared to be something as if they regretted the carrying through of the great measure of Reform, or otherwise they would have permitted these Corn-laws to come under consideration. He would not trouble the House with anything upon the Corn-laws, because it was clear to him that there were two qualities requisite in a Member wishing to address the House—that he
 1196
 Mr. Richards  said, after the powerful speech of the right hon. Baronet, the First Lord of the Admiralty, a speech which did the greatest credit both to his talents and industry, it was not his intention to trouble the House at any length on the subject of the Motion of the hon. member for Middlesex. But there was one point which the right hon. Baronet had left unnoticed, on which he would make a few observations. The right hon. Baronet stated truly, that agriculture had peculiar burthens; but he omitted to state that, in the very nature of things, agriculture, in reference to foreign competition, was much less able to support excessive taxation than commerce and manufactures. The raising corn was a simple operation. The boors of Poland and of Russia knew how to grow wheat almost as well as the most skilful farmers in England. In fact, the manner of raising corn had not much improved since the days of Virgil. It mattered not, that the implements of husbandry, in many parts of the continent, were rude and misshapen; these implements answered sufficiently well the purposes for which they were used. Again, the division of labour in agriculture could not, easily, be carried to the same extent
 1248 1249
 Mr. Hume : To be sure he did.
 Mr. Hume : Did he not change his opinions?—[" No."]
 Mr. Hume : Why, in 1821.
 Mr. Hume  said, it was a mistake to suppose that the Bill cast a slur upon the Scotch Magistrates, it only reformed an improper and corrupt system.
 Mr. Hume , having presented a petition from 31,000 inhabitants of the metropolis, for the repeal of the Corn-laws, (which, as to size, resembled one of the largest rollers used in husbandry,) and petitions to the same effect from other places, went on to say, that he had to crave the indulgence of the House, while he endeavoured to state his views on the important question of which he had given notice for that night. It was unnecessary for him to dwell upon the great importance of the question, and the necessity of setting it at rest, if possible, by taking from the landed interests the undue privileges at present conferred on them; and steps ought to be taken to relieve the public mind from agitation, by conceding to the people what they conceived to be their rights. He was anxious to have the subject discussed without intemperance or heat; and he said so the rather, because, on former occasions, much ill feeling had been excited, under the idea that one party had effected an usurpation, which it was prepared by every means in its power to maintain at the expense of the rest of the community. Parliament would best perform its duty by taking the prudent course he recommended. He felt anxious, as this was the first time the question had been brought fairly forward in a Reformed
 1198 1199 ad-valorem s d s s s d s s 1200 1201 1202 1203 s s s 1204 s s l l l 1205 s d s s s s s s s d s d s s 1206 l s s s 1207 1208 l l l s s d s d s d s d s d 1209 1210 1211 1212 1213 1214 1215 s s 1216 s s
 Mr. Robert Steuart  conceived the hon. member for Falkirk's Motion was contrary to correct principle, and, however reluctant he was to oppose a Motion for leave to bring in a Bill, he should certainly oppose this. The hon. Member had made out no case whatever to justify the House in interfering with an established system.
 Mr. Robert Wallace  would support the introduction of the Bill he had the honour to second, being well assured of some decisive step being absolutely necessary for
 1264
 Mr. Ewart  moved the adjournment of the question.
 Mr. Gillon  said, that in moving for leave to bring in a Bill for the better regulating the granting of certificates to retail ale, spirits, wine, &c., in Scotland, as he did not expect he would be opposed in this preliminary step, he would not detain the House by going at any length into the subject, but would very briefly advert to the changes which he proposed to effect. His object was to make the machinery less cumberous, and he hoped more satisfactory to all parties concerned than at present.—1st. As to the jurisdiction; this he proposed in counties to transfer from
 1263
 Mr. Gillon  presented a Petition from certain members of the Town Council of Cupar (Fife) praying for the severance of The existing connection between Church and State. Such opinions as were professed
 1193 1194
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  thought the petitioners, however respectable they might be, were not sensible to their own interest, or they would never have presented such a petition. It was evident that if a lower price was imposed upon agricultural produce than at present existed, not only would the farmer be involved in ruin, but every class in the community would be equally affected.
 Sir James Graham  said, the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had just sat down had observed, that the landed interests of England were now upon their trial. He should be sorry if that great interest were to suffer, in consequence of its defence being intrusted to so feeble an advocate as himself, or from the hon. and gallant Member being one of the Jury; yet so satisfied was he of the strength of the cause, that he was not in the least afraid of the result of this evening's trial. The hon. and gallant Officer had taken upon him not only to point out the line of the trial but also to frame the issue, and to say that it was incumbent upon the landed interest to prove, that the continuance of the existing Corn-laws was for the interest of the country at large. He accepted that issue, and would endeavour to establish his case upon that footing. The gallant Officer had said, that declamation was useless. Declamation was not in his power; and if it were, he should not attempt it on this occasion. He would rather follow the example of his hon. friend, the member for Middlesex, who, he must say, had brought the question forward in a tone of calm and deliberate discussion, which it would be his duty to imitate, and from which he hoped that the House would not depart, notwithstanding the somewhat intemperate vehemence of the hon. and gallant Member. Before he went further he would observe, that there were two or three points in the speech of the hon. member for Middlesex, in which he had the pleasure to state his entire concurrence. The hon. Gentleman had said, that, in deciding this question, it was the duty of the House to consider what would be for the interest of the whole community. He should never take the view he did of this subject, if he were not convinced, in his mind and his conscience, that the maintenance of the existing Corn-laws was for the interest of the community at large, that interest being duly and dispassionately considered. He stood there as the representative of a large county, containing not only agricultural, but also extensive mining and manufacturing interests. He had the honour to represent that county both in and out of office; and he felt satisfied, that the
 1224 1225 s 1226 s d s 1227 1228 s s 1229
 Sir James Graham : Change his opinions?
 Sir James Graham : When?
 Sir James Graham  would join issue with the hon. Member. He held in his hand the Report of the Agricultural Committee, drawn up in 1821,—drawn up, he believed, by Mr. Huskisson, and from it, he could, certainly, draw no such conclusion as that Mr. Huskisson had changed
 1230 1231 s d l l 1232 Hume l l l s s 1233 Hume s d s d 1234 1235 s s d s s d s s s d 1236 s s s d s d s d s d 1237 s s d s d s 1238 
 
 Quinquennial Period. Average. Variation. 
 s. d. 
 1797–1801 70 1 220  per cent 
 1802–1806 69 9 100 
 1807–1811 88 5 74 
 1812–1816 82 2 183 
 1817–1821 74 0 143 
 1822–1826 56 1 81 
 1829–1835 61 8 49 s s s d 1239 1240 1241 1242 In March, 1813, when bread was 1 s 
 
 (Making, with Common Hoops). 1813. 1816. 1819. 1825. 1834. 
 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. 
 Stout butts 4 10 3 7 3 10 3 11 4 6 
 Ditto puncheons 2 10 2 9 2 9 3 0 3 6 
 Ditto hogsheads. 2 5 2 2 2 4 2 6 2 10 
 Ditto barrels 2 2 2 0 2 0 2 3 2 7 
 Ditto kilderkins 1 9 1 8 1 8 2 0 2 4 
 Firkins 1 7 1 6 1 6 1 7 1 10 
 X hogsheads 2 3 2 0 2 2 2 2 2 4 
 Ditto barrels 1 11 1 10 1 10 1 11 2 2 
 Bread, per quartern 1 6½ 1 1½ 0 11½ 0 10½ 0 9¼ 
 Porter, per pot 0 6 0 4½ 0 5½ 0 5½ 0 4 
 
 Wages. Bread and Beer. 
 £ s d. s. d. 
 1813 1 17 10 14 3 
 1816 1 15 0 10 5 
 1819 1 16 2 9 11 
 1825 1 18 8 8 10 
 (Now demanded) 1834 2 4 2 7 8 
 Meat, and other articles in proportion." 1243 s d s s d 1244 1245 1246
 Mr. Clay : Sir, I do not purpose, in the few observations with which I am about to trouble the House, to take any very extended or general view of the wide field of argument which presents itself to the mind of any man coining to the decision of the all-important question now before the House; neither do I purpose to notice all the reasons which have been adduced by the various hon. Gentlemen who have addressed the House in opposition to the Motion of my hon. friend. I shall confine myself to a commentary upon some of the leading propositions which have been brought forward by the right, hon. Baronet; partly because every thing that fell from that right hon. Gentleman must have great weight with the House; and partly because all the propositions to which I refer, are, I think, those chiefly relied on elsewhere by the opponents of any alteration of our present system of Corn-laws. I feel that it is an arduous task to attempt to reply to the speech of the right hon. Baronet; but I am emboldened so to do, because I thought that I discovered in that speech—much as it seemed to meet the approbation of a large portion of the House—fallacies a thousand times refuted, and which the happy elocution and clear and perspicuous language with which the right hon. Gentleman invests every argument he employs, only seemed to render more conspicuous. The first point I shall notice is the connexion of the question of the Corn-laws with that of the currency. I deny most distinctly that it has any such connexion. I deny that the return to cash payments—the measure of 1810—is the cause of the present low prices of agricultural produce. It could only have been so by contracting the circulating medium. I deny that it contracted it. I assert, that the currency is now larger, greatly larger, than before the return to a metallic standard; that it is very greatly larger than during the range of high prices of corn from 1809 to 1814, and probably double what it was in 1800 and 1801, when wheat reached the highest price it ever attained in this country; and that the Bill of 181,0 cannot, therefore, be the cause of the fall
 1256 1257 Question, question 1258 1259 1260
 Sir William Rae  knew of no facts which could warrant a suspicion that the. Magistrates of Scotland had behaved improperly; and he would, though on general principles averse from opposing the introduction of a Bill, oppose this, because it cast a slur upon the Magistrates.
 Lord Morpeth  would not attempt to follow his right hon. friend in the manifold details of his speech—a speech distinguished by his usual eloquence, heightened by the introduction of topics which were congenial to his own feelings, as they appeared to be to those of his audience. But he would take that opportunity of expressing his determination to support the proposition of the hon. member for Middlesex. Ever since he could think on any public question, he was an advocate for free trade in corn, and rendering bread cheap to the industrious poor. When he first had the honour of a seat in that House, as the representative of a borough favourable to liberal principles—when liberal principles were not common—he was one of sixteen who divided with the hon. Member in support of such a proposition as he now advocated. Those principles were at that time considered vulgar; but he considered they were just, when their object was to render bread cheap. If he were actuated by selfish views, he should perhaps have taken another-course. His pecuniary interest was in favour of the superiority of the landed interest. He resided among a numerous body of agriculturists, who were deeply distressed; but he must deal justly by all. He was not sent to that House as the advocate of the manufacturing classes, but to support the interests of the entire community. He could not refuse his assent to the demonstration, that the more liberal and free the trade in corn, the more would the general prosperity be promoted. The same principle would apply to corn as to
 1253 1254 1255 l
 The Earl of Darlington  would trouble the House with a few brief remarks; but
 1272 1273 1274 1275 s s 1276
 The Earl of Darlington : On what authority does the right hon. Member deny my statement?
 The Earl of Darlington : What I said was this: I said that a communication, sent as an appeal to me to withdraw my Amendment, came from a high quarter in his Majesty's Government. I had it, in point of fact, in writing from one who is not only a member of the Government, but also a member of the Cabinet.
 The Earl of Darlington  asked, if the right hon. Gentleman meant to cast an imputation on the character of Mr. Huskisson?
 Mr. Baring  said, that in consequence of what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, he felt it necessary to address a few observations to the House. He begged to call the attention of the House to the particular position in which this question stood. Last year Committees were appointed,—one to inquire into the state of commerce, shipping, and manufactures, and another to inquire into the state of the agricultural interest. The Report of one of those Committees was, that there existed a great depression in the state of the agricultural interest, whilst the other reported that there existed great improvement, prosperity, and success in the various branches of the trade, commerce, and manufactures of the country. Now, as far as regarded the agricultural interest, the distressed situation in which it was at the time the Committee made its Report had since been aggravated. It subsequently occurred that the noble Lord, at the head of his Majesty's Government in that House, in affording the only relief which he stated himself enabled to afford from taxation, gave that relief, in opposition, as he distinctly said, to his own opinion, to the inhabitants of great towns. That noble Lord had, however, on another occasion, referred to the benefits which, he stated, were about to he conferred on the agricultural interest in the commutation of tithes, and in the
 1308 1309 s Hear," from Mr. Hume 1310 1311 s s 1312 1313 1314 1315 Allgemeine Zeitung 1316 Allgemeine Zeitung 1317 1318 1319 1320 1321 1322 1323 s s s 1324
 Mr. Baring  felt himself entitled, when such an accusation was brought against him before that House, to call upon the hon. Member who made it to state what expression he had made use of to bear him out in making such a charge.
 Mr. Duncombe , denied that the Corn-laws had been established for the purpose of benefiting the landlord at the expense of the other classes of the community; and he was fully prepared to contend, that they had answered all the objects for which they had been framed. What were those objects? They were to secure to the country an adequate supply of corn at a moderate, fair, even, and steady price; and also to give to an important and large body of labourers employment. There was but one other observation he was desirous of addressing to the House, especially considering the labours of the House, and the length to which the debate had been carried. He defied any person to show that, under the existing Corn-laws, there had been any, even the smallest, want of supply, or that there had been any material fluctuation in prices, as compared with what had occurred under any other system. It was unnecessary for him to go into any detail whatever in support of those assertions, for they had been most fully substantiated by the statistics quoted by the right hon. Baronet, the First Lord of the Admiralty. But not only had the laws answered the purposes to which he had alluded, but they were also just and necessary for the due protection of the agriculturists. Every person at all acquainted with the details of agriculture must know, that the prices under the existing law had not given at all an undue advantage to the landed interest. The average price of corn last year was 53 s 1339
 Mr. Baring  said, that as the hon. member for Middlesex had referred so particularly to a speech which he had made twenty years ago, he must just say in explanation that that speech had been directed, not against the present amount of protection, but against a proposition which had been made to increase the protection at that time contended for.
 Mr. Wolryche Whitmore  said, that after the able speeches which had passed on both sides on the present occasion, he should trespass for a very short time on the attention of the House, and even, were he mentally so disposed, his bodily indisposition would interfere to prevent him. Being, however, the representative of a very large constituency, he might, perhaps, be excused for presuming to offer his sentiments upon the subject of the Corn-laws. He appeared there, not in the character of a philosopher, for to that he had no claim, but, as a farmer and a country gentleman, and as such he had no hesitation in avowing, that he concurred in no shape whatever in the doctrines
 1325 s s 1326 s s s s s s s s s d.; s d s s s s 1327 1328
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  observed, in explanation, that he had not said the pamphlet alluded to by him was the production of the right hon. Baronet.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, he would be
 1294 Free Trade in Corn the real Interest of the Landowner and the true Policy of the Slate 1295 1296 Hear. 1297 Gazette s d s d s d s d s d. 1298 s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s s s Gazette Gazette 
 
 s. d. s. d s. d. 
 In 1784 the prices varied from 48 2 to 41 10 difference 6 4 
 In 1785 37 5 to 34 6 difference 2 11 
 In 1766 36 2 to 33 10 difference 2 4 1299 
 
 In 1787 44 10 to 36 1 difference 8 9 
 In 1788 45 1 to 42 9 difference 2 4 
 In 1789 54 11 to 47 0 difference 7 11 s d s d s s 
 
 s. d. s. d s. d. 
 In 1828 the prices varied from 75 3 to 56 0 difference 19 3 
 In 1829 75 3 to 56 3 difference 19 0 
 In 1830 72 11 to 56 1 difference 16 10 
 In 1831 73 5 to 60 5 difference 13 0 
 In 1832 63 5 to 52 5 difference 11 0 minimum 1300 s s s s d s d s d s s 1301 Do you think that having a larger proportion of the carrying trade of corn would be beneficial to you?—Yes, it would; if there was a fixed duty upon corn, I have no doubt it would be beneficial to us, for, at the present time, if the ports are opened, orders go out to the foreign ports; the foreign ships are at home and get freighted; and, before the English ships can get out, the principal part of the orders are filled up, and the freights get lower; we are, therefore, disappointed when we get there. Do you consider that the alteration from a fluctuating to a fixed duty would be the means of giving additional employment to the British shipping?—Yes, it would. Do you think the shipping interest would be benefited by an alteration of the Corn-laws?—I think, if there was a fixed duty, it would give very great increased employment to British shipping, instead of foreign, in the early part of the year. At the present moment, when any prospect of bad weather occurs during the harvest, or even in the spring of the year, the orders are sent out so quickly, that there is not time to send English vessels out, and the foreign vessels are taken up forthwith. Now, if there was a fixed duty, there would be none of that speculation, and we should have a supply of corn of a superior description; there would be a regular import instead of a fluctuating one. I think, if there were a fixed duty, British shipping would become the carriers of nearly all the corn. You have stated that you think the English shipping interest would be benefited materially by the change in the Corn-law you have mentioned; would not that depend upon the comparative expense at which foreign and British ships could be navigated?—I think that British shipping could be navigated as cheap as foreign; and even if it could not, I should prefer British shipping in bringing corn; you have no dependence upon the foreigner bringing corn; he perhaps runs into foreign ports, and you have nothing but trouble and vexation with him; a great many of them have run into Norway, &c. 1302 1303 s s 1304 s s 1305 s 1306 s 1307
 Mr. Poulett Thomson : If that be all the statement of the noble Lord, it does not at all impugn my assertion. What may be the opinions of the individual members of the Government, be it the head of that Government, or any other member of the Cabinet, is a different question; but if I misunderstood the noble Earl in supposing him to say, that it was the wish of his Majesty's Government, taken collectively, to leave my hon. friend, the member for Middlesex, in as small a minority as possible, then I hope he will excuse me for such an unintentional misinterpretation of his meaning; but if I did not misunderstand him, then the very fact that I am here, a member of the Government, holding the official situation which I do, advocating and prepared to vote for a change in the Corn-laws, is, I think, a sufficient answer to his assertion.—The right hon. Gentleman then proceeded to observe, that he was sorry that this circumstance had given rise to any heat, as his object in discharging the duty which he had to perform was, to keep in mind the example of the hon. member for Middlesex, who had introduced this subject with the utmost good temper, with calmness, and with the absence of every topic which could excite anger and animosity in those whom he addressed. He felt the necessity of following that example the more, because he could not. disguise from himself, from the appearance of the House last night, that he was about to speak to an unfavourable audience. At the same time, he felt bound to urge upon the majority, if he had the misfortune to differ from the majority in opinion, that every thing which he had to say could only put weapons into their hands to
 1278 1279 beau ideal Cries of "No 1280 s s 1281 s s s s s * * 1282 s d s s s s s s 1283 s s 1284 1285 1286 1287 l l 1288 1289 l l l 1290 Hear Baring Allgemeine Zeitung 1291 Allgemeine Zeilung 1292 s s 1293
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  The authority upon which I deny the statement is this—that it is an open question in the Government, for the truth of which. I appeal to my noble friend sitting near me, and it is on this ground that I am here as a member of his Majesty's Government, though not in the Cabinet, advocating the opinion, and voting for the Motion of the hon. member for Middlesex.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said: often, as it had fallen to his lot to address the House, which he always did with feelings of great anxiety, yet he could unfeignedly assure it that he never rose to address it under stronger feelings of that kind than those which he experienced at that moment. He had the misfortune to differ in opinion from many of the distinguished friends with whom he was in the habit of acting, and, above all, he had the misfortune to differ from his right hon. friend, the First Lord of the Admiralty. It would, however, he unworthy of the little character which he trusted that he had been enabled to obtain—and he should be unworthy of representing that great constituency which, unsolicited, had done him the honour of sending him as its representative to the House of Commons—he should be a traitor to the opinions and votes which he had always hitherto given upon this subject, if he did not, unhesitatingly, but still with great diffidence, proclaim the views which he entertained upon it. "I must first," said the right hon. Member, "correct a statement made by the noble Lord who has just sat down. That noble Lord has stated, if I understood him correctly, that he had withdrawn his amendment, because it was the desire of the Government that the Motion of the hon. member for Middlesex should be lost in as small a minority as possible. I deny that. The circumstance of my being a member of the Government, and yet voting with the hon. member for Middlesex, is an answer to the statement of the noble Lord."
 Mr. Littleton  begged to remind the right hon. Baronet, that there was, at that moment, a Bill on the subject of highways before the House.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  said, that the new system altered the mode of levying the county-rates, but made no change with respect to their expenditure.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  expressed his surprise, that the noble Lord had not proposed, that the subject of the county-rates in Ireland should be referred to the Committee, as well as those of England and Wales. In the county which he had the honour of representing, the county-rates amounted to 100,000 l l
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  said, that he would be satisfied if the noble Lord held out any hope, that the grievance of which he complained should become the subject of inquiry; but he had not done so. If the noble Lord did not like to move for the appointment of a Committee, he would do so.
 Mr. Henry Handley  bore testimony to the correctness with which the noble Lord had repeated the answer he gave to the question put by him. But, in 1822, a year of parallel distress with the present, the noble Lord, when on the Opposition side of the House, said, that the only remedy for the distress of the farmer was to be found in a diminution of taxation; still, when the noble Lord was, upon a recent occasion, called upon to make a small reduction in the duties imposed upon agriculturists, he refused to do so, and this, although he was at the same time determined to grant a boon to another interest. He would beg to tender to the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) his best thanks for having anticipated him; and he should think those who concurred with him, in putting forward every argument which could bear upon the sub-
 1330
 Mr. Benett  rose to repeat what he had said on a former night, and what, after the diversity of opinion he had heard on
 1341
 Mr. Brotherton  said, that, as the Representative of a large manufacturing constituency, he should declare his opinion that the Corn-laws were not consistent with policy or justice. It was said, by an eminent writer, that "what was morally wrong could not be politically right." There could be no good in preventing men from going to whatever market they liked for food. It was said, that we ought not to depend on foreign nations for food. But did we not depend on them for cotton and other commodities, which were to us the source of so much wealth? There should be reciprocity, not only between individuals, but between States, for that was the only basis of advantage. The question before the House was one between the Aristocracy and the people at large. The people demanded relief, and the Aristocracy refused it. The agriculturists were in distress, but a wrong notion of the cause of that distress prevailed. He would make a few tabular statements to the House, in order to enable it to form some estimate of the nature and working of the Corn-laws. The average price of the quartern loaf, from 1790 to 1800, was 8 d d d l l l d l l d
 Mr. Hume  rose to reply. He could assure the House that, after the indulgence which had been shown him in opening the debate he should feel it his duty not to trespass long in reply. He must however, observe that the Government appeared to him to stand in a very extraordinary position. They had a Cabinet which, as far as he could learn, in a great degree coincided with the proposition which he had made, and yet which was not prepared to come forward and vote for it. The members of the Government, it appeared, were left at liberty to vote on the question as they individually pleased. In fact, this question was, as the Roman Catholic question had formerly been, an open question. Now, he should say, that if ever there was a question which a Government was bound to take in hand, this question was that one. He must say, that the Government had deserted their duty in thus treating the subject. It was true he had the support of some of the Ministers, and he thanked them for it. It was also true, that some of the Ministers had supported the Motion by their arguments, though by their votes they intended to oppose it. The noble Lord (Palmerston), for instance, had reasoned one way, and would vote the other. Then there was an hon. Baronet (Sir G. Phillips) who had argued for the proposition, but meant to vote against it out of deference to those who sent him to that House. Really there was no dealing with such conduct. He thought the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) had not done well in meeting the Motion with a direct negative. He must say, that that course could not by possibility be in accordance with the sentiments of the noble Lord, judging those sentiments from the language which that noble Lord had used on more than one occasion during the present Session. From the commencement made by his hon. friend (the member for Kirkcudbright) he had fully expected to have been demolished. His hon. friend had spoken loudly and long; but it had hap-
 1342 Hear, hear," and laughter Cutlar Fergusson
 Mr. Hume  said: Well then, the speech the right hon. Baronet had delivered last night, had found an answer in the pamphlet of the Cumberland yeoman, to which pamphlet the right hon. Baronet had contributed. There was therefore, but one point in the able and eloquent speech of the right hon. Baronet to which he felt it necessary particularly to advert, for that speech was a mere string of fallacies, not more applicable to the Corn-laws than were any of the fallacies in the book of fallacies published by Jeremy Bentham. The point to which he alluded was this: The right hon. Baronet had said, that the landed aristocracy were a great and important body. They were so, and he (Mr. Hume) wished to see them wealthy and respected. But the right hon. Baronet had told the House that they were in difficulties—that they were encumbered with debts, settlements, and mortgages, and that they must have protection or be destroyed; which meant, that for the support of the landed aristo-
 1343 no * * 1344 * * l s l l * * * * 1345 * * *
 Mr. Fryer  said, he could not recall the particular words of the hon. Member. It was the general tenor of the hon. Member's speech, which left the impression upon his mind, that it was couched in terms of derision. The fact was, that the object of the present resistance to the Motion of the hon. member for Middlesex was, to raise the price of food by protecting the present enormous rents obtained by the landholders, and he could only declare, that if the Motion of the hon. Member were not carried, he should, on some future day, bring forward a Bill for the total repeal of the Corn-laws.
 Mr. Fryer  said, he had heard with sorrow and pain the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. The question before the House was one deeply affecting the happiness of the people, and yet the hon. Member had treated it with derision.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  had not attributed that to the right hon. Gentleman.
 1337
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  thought it was I important that they should distinctly understand the question upon which they were to vote. The hon. member for Middlesex, according to a common, if not a very correct or convenient course of parliamentary tactics, particularly practised of late, had made a different Motion from that of which he gave notice. His notice was, that he would move for a Committee to consider of the Corn-laws, and of the propriety of substituting, instead of the present graduated scale, a fixed duty, with the ultimate view of establishing a free trade in corn. This last most important part of his notice he had left out of his Motion, no doubt, hoping to get a few more votes. He trusted, that no Member of this House, who did not agree with the hon. member for Middlesex in his opinion as to a free trade in corn, would be induced to go into the proposed Committee; for they might depend upon it that, in the event of success, the hon. member for Middlesex, or some one of his supporters, would next Session move for the abolition of his own graduated scale of decreasing duty, in order at once to have a free trade in corn, without duty, and without restriction. On former occasions, he had asked the hon. member for Middlesex to agree with himself, and with those who supported him, as to the exact object he had in view. He had still to make the same request; for it appeared, that in respect to what would be the result of this proposition, if adopted, the hon. Member did not agree with himself, nor had any two of his supporters agreed with each other. They could not agree upon this most important point, whether the proposition, if adopted, would cause the price to fall, to remain stationary, or to rise? In the first part of his speech, the hon. member for Middlesex said, that it would cause the prices of corn to fall, and that we could not have a reduction in the price of manufacturing produce without a reduction in the price of labour, consequent on a fall in the price of corn. In a sub-
 1331 1332 1333 1334 * Allgemeine Zeitung. * 1335 1336
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that from the remarks which the hon. member for Cork had made, hon. Gentlemen might really be induced to suppose, that the questions of county-rates, and Grand Jury Laws, in Ireland, had never been made the subject of inquiry, whereas they had been the matter of repeated inquiry. Perhaps the hon. Gentleman meant to say (and probably he did not altogether dispute the point), that those inquiries had proved ineffectual; but seeing that only last year the House had passed a Bill to alter the Grand Jury Laws, he thought the only object to be gained by the appointment of a Committee at present, would be, that of inquiring into the old system, for whether the new system worked ill or well, remained to be proved. He hoped, however, that the new system would correct many of those abuses which had been alluded to by the hon. Gentleman. It must, however, be much better to inquire how the new system worked.
 Mr. Ewart  confessed that nothing surprised him more than to hear hon. Members last night call upon the House to set this question at once and for ever at rest by voting against the Motion of the hon. member for Middlesex. Now, he was con-
 1267 1268 1269 1270 1271
 Sir James Graham  rose to explain. It was proper that he should set his hon. friend right upon the point to which he had alluded, especially as similar allusions had been made by his right hon. friend the Vice-President of the Board of Trade. The pamphlet to which allusion had been made was really the work of a Cumberland yeoman. It was not written by him (Sir J. Graham), but he had assisted in its publication. He certainly was not responsible for its arguments or its statements.
 Sir George Phillips  said, it was the opinion of his constituents, to which he was bound to defer, that the present laws should not be disturbed until their operation
 1338
 Sir Robert Peel  suggested, that as the Committee was to be divided into several Sub-Committees, one of the divisions should direct their attention and inquiries to the working of the Grand Jury Bill of last Session, upon both the levying and
 1352
 Lord Althorp  said, that whether or not it might be considered advisable to appoint a Committee to inquire into the system of county-rates in Ireland, a point upon which he would not pledge himself, he
 1351
 Lord Althorp  wished merely to state the grounds on which he should give his own vote. He should meet the Motion of the hon. member for Middlesex by a direct negative. He believed he need not state to those who had done him the honour to listen to his opinions, that his own sentiments were favourable to an alteration in the existing system, although his views of the alteration were not quite so extensive as those entertained by the hon. Member. But this was not a question merely theoretical; there were many circumstances connected with the question to which due weight must be given, before any man could determine what line of conduct he should pursue on this occasion. Now, he did not see that there was any present exigency which demanded any immediate change, nor did he perceive any near prospect of such an exigency; while, on the other hand, it was well known that great distress existed among the agricultural part of the population, and that distress would certainly be aggravated by any such measure as that now proposed, if it were only by the great alarm which it would occasion. The condition of the commercial and manufacturing interests was greatly improved, and under these circumstances it would be most unjust to benefit the latter at the expense of the former. He had lately had an opportunity, while looking over some annuity tables, calculated on as many as 4,000,000 lives, of examining the comparative mortality in this country, both at the present and in past times, and in other countries; and he found that not, only was the average mortality much decreased in this country of late, but that, as compared with other countries, the inhabitants of Great Britain had considerably the advantage. This was a sufficient proof that the situation of the general mass of the population was very much bettered. Looking at the circumstances to which he had before referred, he must say, that it was not merely necessary to see whether a measure could be commenced, but also
 1329
 Lord Althorp , in pursuance of the notice he had given, rose to move, that a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the County Rates in England and Wales, and to report, whether any, and what regulations might be adopted to diminish their pressure on the owners and occupiers of the land. The noble Lord stated, that he
 1350
 Viscount Howick  said, that he would not have taken any share in the Debate but for the remark of an hon. Baronet (Sir G. Phillips), who had said, that the Representatives of agricultural districts would find it difficult to persuade their constituents that, in voting for this Motion, they were not opposed to all protecting duties. Now, as he was, perhaps, the only Representative of a purely agricultural district who would vote for the Motion of the hon. member for Middlesex, he felt it necessary to state, that he gave his support to the Motion, but without concurring in the speech by which it was introduced. He would vote for the Motion which had been placed in the hands of the Speaker, because he was favourable to a fixed duty instead of a fluctuating duty. He had voted in 1828 for the same principle, because he felt that duties which, in their nature, were fluctuating were most injurious to the agricultural interest. When he saw the distress in which the agriculturists were involved, and when he heard of the prosperity of the other classes, he could not come to any other conclusion than that the present fluctuating duties were the millstone which hung round their necks. On this ground he would vote for the Motion of the hon. member for Middlesex. He felt convinced that a fixed duty would bring more money to the Treasury, and would enable his noble friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to take off some of the burthens which now pressed upon the agricultural classes without affording relief to any other classes.
 Viscount Palmerston  assured the House that, in rising at that late period in the debate, it was not his intention to detain them by any lengthened remarks. He was not going into the Prussian tariff, or into the new regulations of the French customs; but he was anxious that the opinion which he was about to express by his vote should not be misunderstood. He would, therefore, simply state that opinion, without, at that hour, obtruding the reasons on which it was founded. If he understood the Motion as it was first framed by the hon. member for Middlesex—that was, to introduce a free trade in corn—he would certainly have opposed it, as he considered that such a proposition, if carried, would be attended with most prejudicial effects; but viewing the Motion then before the House as one which went only to the consideration of what was the amount of the protecting duty, with a view to its gradual diminution, he concurred with his noble friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He did not see any objection to such a proposition in the abstract; for he agreed with his noble friend that such diminution, if gradual, and did not come down to too low a scale, would not be injurious to the agricultural interest, or occasion any great reduction in the price of corn. Looking, however, to the present circumstances of the country, and seeing, that under the present Corn-laws the supply was ample and the
 1340
 The Earl of Kerry,  having been requested by the Great Western Railway Company to second the Motion for the Second Reading, would take that opportunity of stating the reason which induced him to support the measure. It was well known that Bristol was the great "entrepot" of the imports from Ireland, and in that respect the railway would be one of great national importance, for by it the best and most wholesome food would
 1353
 The Marquess of Chandos  seconded the Motion, and said, there was a very
 1356
 Mr. Charles Russell  said, that many persons, whose names were attached to the petition he had presented in favour of the Bill, possessed property on the proposed line of road. He believed that the inhabitants of towns were not often the holders of large landed property. He did not believe that above five or six persons residing at Reading had any interest in the line of the railway; but, of these, one considerable owner, at least, was neuter upon this question. He certainly thought, that an unreasonable degree of stress had been laid on the circumstance that the whole line of the communication between London and Bristol was not, in the first instance, to be completed. From the observations which the hon. member for Berkshire had made, it might be inferred, that no  bonâ fide 1357
 Mr. O'Connell,  in rising to support the Bill, said, that the question was, whether the Committee would sacrifice private interest to public good? Was the measure
 1358
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  said, that this Company had come to Parliament under a false pretence; not that he wished to say anything unfavourable towards the proprietors, who were, he believed, highly respectable men. The Bill was stated to be to establish the Great Western Railway, and yet its provisions only went to establish one from London to Reading, and from Bath to Bristol; therefore, the Company might call themselves by any other name as well as by that they now bore. In the Bill there was no guarantee that all the line of railroad would be completed, as there were seventy miles of road left without any provisions. There was nothing by which the Company bound themselves to form a communication on the whole line, except the bare fact, that they chose to call themselves the "Great Western Rail-road Company." Therefore, it was, that he objected to the second reading. Those who advocated the measure on the principle of the hon. and learned member for Dublin (Mr. O'Connell), asserted, that the Company would be sure to complete the line, in order to forward their own object; but, it might happen, that no other persons would choose to join them; funds for that purpose might not be forthcoming to enable the Company to make the communication, and then in what a situation would they be placed? A new Company might come to Parliament next year prepared with the means of making that line, and they would be
 1360
 Captain Dundas  thought, if rail-roads were to supersede the coasting trade, they would annihilate the seamen, and injure the country. He should oppose the Bill.
 Mr. Lennard  thought, that Captain Ross was entitled to remuneration, and conceived that a plan might be adopted of doing justice to that gallant individual, without exciting the opposition of the hon. member for Oldham. A fund of 75,000 l.
 Mr. O'Connell  hoped the hon. member for Middlesex would comply with the suggestion. A deputation had waited upon him, and, after considerable detail, had convinced him that one-sixth in point of duration and weight of work bad, by the present mode, been added to their labour. The human frame was not able for any continuance to sustain the great increase of exertion which was thus accumulated. The rise in wages was only in proportion to the increase of labour
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that nobody disputed that a volunteer force might be useful. The question was, whether an experiment might not be made on the patriotism of the English, and a force got up without any expense. In 1780, when all the King's troops were drawn out of Ireland, and sent to America, 60,000 cavalry, artillery, and infantry, not only clothed, but armed themselves, and served for three or four years without a cost to the Government of a single shilling. Surely, in so wealthy a country as England, the experiment might succeed without costing 80,000 l.
 The Earl of Grosvenor  said, that the yeomanry were put to great inconvenience and expense by their absence from home to attend to the duties of the service, and they did not receive as much as remunerated them for the loss they sustained. There were, he was aware, two troops, one in Wiltshire, and the other in Glasgow, which served gratuitously; but he thought it was well worth consideration, whether it was constitutional to allow bodies to arm themselves, and serve without remunera-
 1371
 Mr. Mark Philips  begged the House would draw a distinction between the acts of the yeomanry at Manchester, and those of the Magistrates. He thought that the force had acted very well in circumstances of peculiar delicacy, although he did not deny that there had been some impetuosity on the part of one of the corps.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that if the yeomanry were kept up in Ireland, the King's troops would be required to defend the people against the yeomanry.
 The Chairman  (Mr. Bernal) felt it to be his duty, to say, as the object which the noble Lord's proposition had in view was to make some increase in the Estimate, which his right hon. friend, the Secretary of War, had submitted, that it could not, in point of form, be made. The Committee had no power to augment the Estimates submitted to them by his Majesty's Government, and such a proposition was, not only without precedent, but against
 1378
 Captain Dundas  complained, that there was another service which had not been treated justly. More favour had been shown to the army than to the navy, which was most unfair.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that some of the apartments in Kilmainham Hospital were now appropriated to certain officers of the garrison at Dublin. He wished to know whether it was the intention of Government to displace those indidivuals in the arrangements they were contemplating with regard to that institution.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that this change had given great dissatisfaction to a large part of his constituents, and he felt it his duty, therefore, to mention it. It might be advocated as a very judicious piece of economy; but was there any very great saving to recommend it? He thought it a very great cruelty to bring away these poor pensioners, removing them from their native land, from a national institution which they had long looked upon with affection and pride, particularly as the removal was contrary to their inclination. None were in-pensioners of that institution, except by inclination—old soldiers, whose friends and families were separated from or altogether lost to them, and who found a home and an asylum within those walls. Strong remonstrances had been made to Government not to put down this institution; and whatever little saving might be effected by so doing, could not compensate for the dissatisfaction which such a measure would cause.
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to protest against the doctrine of the hon. member for Dundalk. Catholics were admissible equally with Protestants to Kilmainham, and treated equally well.
 Colonel Conolly  thought, at that stage, they ought only to take the principles of
 1361 1362
 Colonel Davies  said, it was very well known, that parties were receiving these allowances, who now held offices, civil or military, under other Governments, and in some cases, the money was received in the names of those who were no longer in existence. He thought the public not sufficiently protected against such frauds.
 Colonel Davies  agreed in the proposition to extend this force to infantry as well as cavalry. In the northern counties, where there was a large manufacturing population, the yeomanry had, on many occasions, been called on to risk their lives in encounters with determined rioters, armed with weapons of offence and defence. It could not be expected, that or these occasions, farmers should leave their homes without some remuneration. What they did receive barely covered the expense to which they were put. His hon. friend had referred to the National Guard of France. There was this wide distinction between the yeomanry of England and the National Guard of France, that the yeomanry was a volunteer corps in the true sense of the word. The service of the National Guard was compulsory.
 1370
 Lord Granville Somerset  had heard no objections that were not rather matters for the Committee than arguments against the Bill. That was particularly the case as regarded the number of assents and dissents; and he could assure the House, that, if the results of the Committee were not satisfactory, he would not be the Member to ask the House to proceed with the Bill. He was glad to hear, that no opposition had been offered to the plan for a railway between London and Bristol; and no parties could be more desirous to complete the whole measure, than were the parties to this Bill. With so much property involved in it, and with the improvement of that property that must result from the completion of the railway, it required little or no argument to show that they must be interested in and desirous of seeing the measure perfected. With respect to the resistance offered by Eton College, he could hardly think it was serious.
 Lord John Russell  said, that, as there was no longer a separate army for Ireland, and as the Irishmen and Englishmen were indiscriminately mixed throughout the service, there could be no objection to the proposed union of the two national military hospitals. He had only acted on a principle long established in the department to which he belonged. It was a practice of long standing to appoint to offices in Chelsea Hospital persons of military claims; men, who had, in some way connected with the army, entitled themselves to encouragement and patronage. The King's warrant had laid down a rule, by which the disposal of such offices was regulated, for it directed that those should be appointed, whose sufferings or merits in the military service gave them a claim to remuneration. In bestowing the particular appointment referred to by the hon. member for Middlesex, he had looked only to the services which had been performed by the gentleman who filled that office, without regarding political differences; and, if in doing this, he had deviated from the path pursued by his predecessors, he bad nothing with which to reproach himself. When the hon. member for Middlesex brought forward a motion to abolish the institution, he would certainly resist it to the utmost, for he was determined to uphold this admirable establishment to the utmost.
 Lord John Russell  was very happy to hear the suggestions of the right hon. Baronet, and he certainly would give them his best consideration. He was very glad that the Right hon. Baronet had turned his attention to the subject; and he was sure that not only the right hon. Baronet, but the House in general,
 1396 1397 1398
 Lord John Russell  brought in a Bill for the relief of the Dissenters, under the Marriage Act, &c.—
 Mr. O'Dwyer  said, that after the speech of the hon. member for Dundalk, there was to be found one Irish Member in that House, who did what would be very unpopular in Ireland. "But," said he, "the Gentleman will find that all will not allow political antipathies to engender private acquaintance." Blunders might, perhaps, be the peculiarity of his country. He meant, that however men might differ in politics, those politics should not embitter private acquaintance.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  begged to say, that he set very little value on the consolation which the Secretary at War had just administered. The right hon. Gentleman had assured the committee that the hospital should be kept up, which meant that the stores and mortar should not be transferred to England. No doubt if the expense of carriage were not an objection, the fabric would be demolished, and the materials conveyed to London. The right hon. Gentleman would call that demolition by the delusive and most mischievous name of "consolidation," and the committee would be quite satisfied. He protested most strenuously against this wholesale destruction of everything Irish. It might be agreeable to some persons to accumulate all the office-desks and office-forms of Ireland in five or six large houses in London, upon the plea of economy, and under the name of consolidation, but he undertook to say that the breaking up of public establishments in Ireland had inflicted much individual misery—had diminished the expenditure in that impoverished country, but did not produce any corresponding saving to the State. He had not any official data to guide him in this statement, but he venture to make the assertion on the received opinion of the public, assisted by his means of personal observation. He now came to consider the proposition of the Government, with regard to Kilmainham Hospital, and the measure of appropriating this establishment to the ordnance service, and he unhesitatingly asserted that the Government had no legal right to justify such a proceeding. The House was frequently reminded of the protection due to vested interests, and this was a case in which there should be a consideration of the kind. The history of this hospital was brief and interesting. It was founded in the time of Charles the Second. The edifice was raised by funds created by a deduction of sixpence in the pound from the pay of all officers, soldiers, and other military persons serving in Ireland. Lands which formerly belonged to the Knights of St. John of Jerusalem, which belonged to the Crown in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, were conveyed to the hospital by the tenure of perpetual alms for the support
 1385
 Mr. O'Dwyer  asked, was not the proposed abolition in opposition to the recommendation of the general officer who commanded in Ireland; or did that officer give it his approval?
 Mr. Baines  availed himself of the opportunity to state, that much difference of opinion prevailed as to whether one of the questions put to the voter applied to qualification of amount or residence. He also begged to suggest, that the practice of taking the list of the Revising Barrister as the standard by which the voters might regulate their qualification was attended with considerable difficulty and inconvenience.
 Mr. Ellice  said, that it had been determined to put a stop to the commutation of pensions. It was a highly objection-able system. The person who first brought it forward to promote the comforts of soldiers, he (Mr. Ellice) would say, knew little of the condition or capabilities of soldiers. Soldiers had not that prudence, that skill, or that bodily vigour, that were necessary to qualify men to become settlers. He had restored men to their pensions in all cases when he had an opportunity, and after the amount of the commutation was refunded. But he believed, that the document sanctioning the commutation was signed by the gallant Member himself when in office.
 Mr. Ellice  assured the hon. and learned member for Dublin, that Government would not have proposed this change if they had thought that it would at all interfere with the comforts of the individuals in question. The hon. and learned Gentleman might rest assured that no such measure of cruelty would be enforced against those whose infirmities might unfit them for a change to this country; but every encouragement would be given to them to remove to their own families, or elsewhere, as might be convenient. The hon. and learned Gentleman had remonstrated against this proposal for putting down a national establishment. He could assure him that there would be no change in the nature, though there might be nominally in the future destination of that establishment. The fact was, that this year the lease of the artillery barracks in Dublin would expire, and it could not be renewed, and the necessary repairs executed, without considerable expense. When, therefore, it was considered that the whole number of persons in that establishment was 270, and that
 1384 l.
 Mr. Ellice  replied, that all he could say at present with regard to that institution was, that arrangements had been made to remove such in-pensioners as could be removed to Chelsea Hospital, whilst the more infirm would be accommodated in certain infirmaries and hospitals of Dublin.
 Mr. Ellice  then proposed "a charge of 16,547 l. s d
 Mr. Ellice  said, that the office to which the hon. member for Oldham alluded, was to cease with the present holder. He had, however, felt it his duty to provide for it in this way.
 Mr. Ellice  rose, for the purpose of submitting the estimate of the charge of the Volunteer Corps. The difference which would be found to exist in the estimate as compared with that of last year, arose, not from the number of men enrolled, which was precisely the same, but from being called upon to make good a sum of 3 l. l. l. l. l. l. s s d 1368 l.
 Mr. Ellice  said, it was impossible for the Government to guard against all the frauds that were attempted. If the gallant Member knew the particulars of such a case as that he had described, he would have done much more good by representing ii at the War-Office, than to the Committee.
 Mr. Ellice,  in moving the sum of 1,327,848 l. s d
 Mr. Ellice  replied: Certainly not.
 Mr. Ellice  moved for a grant of 81,240 l.
 Mr. Ellice  said, that this was one of the contracts to which the Government found the country pledged when they succeeded to office, and they were bound by every principle of law and justice, to abide by the contract. Some of these allowances were for wounds received in the active service of this country. He was sure, that no one would wish such services to go unrewarded.
 Mr. Ellice  wished the subject to drop without further observation; but he could assure his noble friend, that he would take another opportunity of bringing it under the consideration of the House.
 Mr. Ellice  assured the right hon. and gallant Officer that he was in error. He really had not introduced his Majesty's name in the few introductory remarks that
 1379
 Mr. Ellice  said, that he should be very sorry to maintain any other doctrine.
 Mr. Ellice  next proposed a Resolution, that the sum of 114,000 l. 1377
 Mr. Ellice  had not the presumption to take anything upon himself in such a matter; he had only stated, that the would support his noble friend's proposition.
 Mr. Ellice  thought that, under all the circumstances, he could not have advised the King to command the adoption of any other course than that which had been taken.
 Mr. Littleton  said, that it would be no economy to abolish the volunteer corps—on the contrary, if it were abolished, it would be indispensably requisite to incur, in some respects, the expense of a standing army. He belonged to a manufacturing county, and could say, from his own experience, that had it not been for the assistance afforded on many occasions by the yeomanry, the most extensive depredations would have been committed. In the whole of the district with which he was acquainted, containing 30,000 men, there had not been a single company of the troop out of doors. The infantry volunteers of other countries exercised only within the limits of the town where the different battalions were formed. He should think it a great misfortune if the volunteer corps of this country were in any degree reduced.
 Mr. Littleton  assured the hon. member for the University of Dublin, that the Government, in withdrawing the vote for the Irish yeomanry, were influenced by no other motive than the consideration that the King's army was sufficient. Surely, 23,000 men were enough to have armed in a population of 8,000,000. He did not believe there had been an instance of the yeomanry in Ireland having been called out for the last three years. At the same time the Government by no means forgot the services which the yeomanry had rendered to the country on past occasions, and they entertained a firm conviction that, should there ever occur a necessity to arm that force again, it would come forward with the same alacrity which it had hitherto displayed. But, he hoped, we had now reached a time when, if it should be necessary to raise volunteers, they would be divested of party prejudices, and that Protestant and Catholic would act in the same service with no other object than to join in the defence of the country.
 Mr. Littleton  said, that there were other parties in Ireland who were as competent to give an opinion on that, point as the present Commander in-Chief, however entitled to respect his opinion might be. The question was one of economy; if the economy were small, he (Mr. Littleton) would not advocate the abolition; but when a considerable saving was to be made, that was another thing. It was the opinion of the best judges, that there could not be a better place for the royal artillery than Kilmainham Hospital.
 Mr. Shaw  was of opinion, whatever might be done as to England, that there was a necessity to keep up the yeomanry force in Ireland. He feared, there was
 1372
 Mr. George Frederick Young,  being practically acquainted with the subject, ventured to confirm the statements of the right hon. Baronet, and pledged himself, if the House went into an extended inquiry, to prove that while the journeymen coopers earned considerably more than the maximum quoted by the right hon. Baronet, they had been in the habit of exercising a most improper and intolerable tyranny over the masters, particularly in the taking of apprentices, &c, which operated most prejudicially to their interests.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that these claims were founded on a solemn contract. If the country was not bound to pay them,
 1382
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, that not one officer, receiving this allowance, could serve in a foreign army, without the permission of his Majesty, in whose service such officers of course remained. In some cases, such permission had been refused and it was only granted where the case warranted it.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  observed, that, on a former occasion, the hon. member for Middlesex stated that he should no longer quarrel with the expense, but with the number of these officers. He then had no objection to their receiving 400 l. l.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  had understood the right hon. Secretary to say, that he had not taken the advice of his Majesty on the subject.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  observed, that the right hon. Gentleman was bound to have informed his Majesty of the nature of the recommendation which the Committee had given.
 Sir Henry Hardinge,  although he fully agreed in the substance of the noble Lord's Motion, could not but object to the form in which it came before the Committee. The King, and not that House, was the dispenser of grace, favour, and reward to the army; and he should object to the noble Lord, or any one else, calling on them to confer rewards which could only be obtained by means of his Majesty's pleasure. The Estimate should have been submitted by command of the King, and not until his pleasure respecting it was first ascertained. The same course ought to be taken before any reductions were proposed, for it was of the utmost importance, that the army should look up to no authority but that of the King. It was by his Majesty's direction, that punishments were inflicted, and by him alone should rewards be conferred. His was constitutional doctrine. But it was quite clear, that his Majesty's pleasure had never been consulted on the matter; for had they not heard the right hon. Secretary say, not, that such and such were according to the King's pleasure, but, that "he should be ready to support his noble friend's Motion." If the King's pleasure were ascertained, and the right hon. Secretary had his Majesty's permission for bringing the vote forward, he (Sir H. Hardinge) entertained no doubt, whatever, that it would be passed without difficulty.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  had certainly been under the impression that the right hon. Gentleman had not consulted his Majesty at all on this particular point. It was, however, only right that, as to his Majesty peculiarly belonged the discipline of the army, they should look up to him, and to him alone.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  observed, that the number of officers on full pay in 1792, was 4,014, and the number of rank and file, 48,000. The number of officers engaged in the army in 1833, was only 5,615, while the number of rank and file, amounted to 95,000 men. The Committee would, therefore, perceive, that in 1792, there was an officer to every company of twelve men; but, that in 1833, there was a company of seventeen men to every officer. The complaint of want of economy in this respect, was consequently groundless. The hon. Member must be aware, that at the end of the war, the list of pensioners was necessarily much enlarged. It was quite clear from the Report of the Committee, that the management and discipline of the army, were in a more perfect state now, than at any former period of our history.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, that a very considerable augmentation had taken place in the army, both cavalry and infantry, since 1792, and the payments had, of course, also increased. He did not mean to say, that the civil appointments were too many or too few; but this he would assert, without fear of contradiction, that the emoluments of the officers of various regiments, were much less now than they were in 1740, nearly a century ago. It was, he repeated, unjust to diminish the emoluments of the army, while in other instances, the emoluments of public servants had been increased. He had a perfect right to complain, that the army had not been done justice to.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  expressed his regret at the course recommended to be pursued by the Committee which sat on the subject of military appointments last year. 'Up to 1788, the army had 30,000 l. 1374 l.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  appealed to the Committee, whether in the observations he had made, he had used any such expressions as "vested rights" or "fixed bayonets." In what he had stated, he merely discharged his duty; and he could assure the hon. member for Middlesex, that he should always boldly stand up in his place in that House, to resist injustice, without caring whether his conduct was approved of or not, by the popular voice.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  begged to say, that he had never signed the documents of the commutation of pensions; out of so shameful an act, he would wash his hands; on the contrary, he cautioned the right hon. member for Dundee against such an arrangement. His object was to allow soldiers, with the consent of Parliament and their own, the facility of emigrating to the colonies. But he never sanctioned the monstrous plan of forcing men to commute their pensions. It was what he absolutely spoke against.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, the statement of the noble Lord was most satisfactory. As Chelsea Hospital was to be preserved, it was most desirable, that all the offices in it should be filled by men of merit, who had deserved well of their country in a military capacity. But he should take leave to say, that he would much rather see Kilmainham also preserved. It was an act of justice to the noble Lord to state, that what he said about the King's warrant was quite correct. The duty was imposed on him to appoint proper persons, and a more proper and creditable selection than Mr.
 1387 1388 l. l.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that as his constituents felt the deepest anxiety for the success of the Bill, he begged to make a few observations upon it. It was a Bill which contemplated only the half of a measure, leaving the whole measure to be filled up in a subsequent Bill; but if it were to stop by making a rail-road communication merely from London to Reading, and then from Bath to Bristol, very great advantages would accrue to the public, for there was
 1359
 Mr. Warburton  hoped, the noble Lord meant to lay before the House the result of the investigation to which he alluded, in order that they might be in a situation to judge how far and in what respects the Reform Bill had worked well, and in what instance it was defective.
 Mr. Hume  was sorry to hear hard words against economy. He must say he thought, that the expenses of the institution in question, about 50 l. 1386 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  cared as little about popularity as the right hon. and gallant Officer. He challenged the right hon. and gallant Officer, or any other Member of that House, to point out an instance in which he had courted popularity. So far from courting popularity, he could, on the contrary, assert, that numberless instances had occurred, in which he had actually borne the brunt of the adverse opinions of millions. Why, on a very recent occasion, when his Majesty's Ministers gave way to popular clamour, did he not resist the popular cry? The right hon. and gallant Officer had, therefore, no right to allude to him as a person capable of surrendering his own opinions, merely in deference to the wishes of parties out of doors. He denied, that any injustice was intended towards the army. The present annuitants were not to be disturbed in the enjoyment of their pensions; but it was right to put it out of the power of future Governments, to misapply
 1375 l.
 Mr. Hume  was surprised to hear the right hon. and gallant Officer advocate so zealously, the vested rights of the army. If the right hon. and gallant Officer's doctrine were correct, they might soon expect to see those vested rights enforced with fixed bayonets.
 Mr. Hume  thought, if the corps were disbanded only for one year, there was sufficient public spirit and patriotism in England to induce persons to come forward and enroll themselves for the purpose of preserving the peace, and protecting property around them, without subjecting the country to the heavy expense of maintaining such a force. Such a disposition was manifested in France; and he had no doubt, it would be manifested here also, if there were occasion for it. He would mention, that the Uxbridge, the Salisbury, and the Glasgow corps, were existing proofs that such a disposition was not wanting, for they did their duty gratuitously. He had urged his objections to the present system for twelve or fourteen years, and he had been
 1369 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  took that opportunity of putting a question to the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty (Sir J. Graham), relative to a subject he had introduced in his speech on the Corn-laws the other evening. The impression which had been made out of doors by the statement of the right hon. Baronet, relative to the case of the journeymen coopers, was very unfavourable to those men. He had, however, received a statement of the facts of the case, in which it was complained that Government had interfered between the masters and the men; and he wished to know, whether the right hon. Baronet had made any further inquiry in order to
 1366
 Mr. Hume  said, that the Manchester yeomanry corps were so ashamed of their conduct on that occasion, that they dissolved themselves, and had never since been enrolled.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the expense of General Officers was so very great, that he would put it to the noble Lord whether he ought to sanction such a proposition as the one that he had made. No fewer than thirty-nine had not served at all during the last war.
 Mr. Hume  was understood to say, that, as the refusal of these allowances would be a breach of a special Act of Parliament, he could not vote against the grant.
 Mr. Sheil  said, that there was no Irishman of any party who would give his assent to the removal of the establishment. No matter how broken up into parts they might be, still they were all on national grounds opposed to the abolition of that useful institution. Every one re-collected what discontent the removal of the naval station from Cork produced; the Custom House was removed, the Stamp Office was removed; every establishment that could benefit the country, and which the country valued, was removed. Now, it was proposed to remove Kilmainham Hospital, and he (Mr. Sheil) supposed that it would soon be proposed to remove the Courts of Law.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that he intended to move as an Amendment on the Motion for going into a Committee of Supply, that an humble Address be presented to his Majesty, requesting that he will be graciously pleased to confer some mark of his Royal favour on Captain John Ross, for his public services; and assuring his Majesty, that this House would make good whatever expense his Majesty might think proper to be incurred on that account.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, he should content himself with simply presenting the petition, deferring whatever observations he had to make on the subject until he proposed the Motion, which stood in the paper to-night.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that he had a Petition to present from Captain John Ross, of the Royal Navy, praying for remuneration for the expenses incurred by him in his voyage to the North Pole. He (Mr. C. Fergusson), trusted that the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, would have no difficulty in signifying the consent of the Crown to the reception of the petition.
 Mr. Robert Palmer  rose to oppose the Second Reading. The present was a case of a peculiar nature, and he should not stand forward to oppose it, unless he felt convinced that he had the strongest parliamentary grounds for the position he had taken. Much apprehension, he was aware, existed in the minds of hon. Members upon the subject of this rail-road, and till within
 1354 1355
 Mr. Gisborne  rose to support the Bill. He must condemn the system of canvassing that had been adopted respecting this Bill. He had received a card, inviting him to attend and oppose this Bill. It was a printed card. He would read it; The invitation was to the following effect:—
 Mr. Brodie  said, that the Salisbury corps, of which he was the Colonel, had performed very useful services, and was maintained at a very small expense to the Government. It was originally clothed by subscription, and armed by his Majesty, and the only expense which the Government had to defray was, the wear and tear of the arms, and the cost of ammunition, which did not exceed 10 l.
 Mr. Cobbett  was opposed to the grant of any public money to Captain Ross. How could that House relieve the burthens of the country, if it were always
 1365
 Mr. Cobbett  understood the right hon. and gallant officer's wish to be, that they should take nothing at all off. The argument, why something should be taken off, was the argument which was now brought forward to show, that no reduction whatever should be made. But it was the non-effective, and not the effective service they were talking about. What was the cost of the non-effective establishment in 1792? It was only right the Committee should know what it cost the country in that year, and what it now cost. In-
 1376 l. l. s d l. l.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that Major Cartwright had called the yeomanry corps the body guard of the borough mongers. Now, the body being gone, he could not see why the corps should not be given up. He felt glad, that not a single Member on the Ministerial benches had attempted to vindicate the conduct of the yeomanry corps of Manchester.
 Mr. Cobbett  asked, whether the name of Prince Leopold was to be found on the list?
 Mr. Cobbett  thought the grant excessive. These pensioners received upwards of 31 l. s l. d s d
 Mr. Cobbett : I say, that that Act of Parliament is against the fundamental law of the land. It is against another Act of Parliament as good as that—an Act of Parliament which placed the King upon the throne. I contend, that by the Act of the 12th and 13th of William" and Mary, the Government was forbidden to bestow any place of military emolument upon foreigners. And I say, that if we take it into our heads to set that Act of Parliament at defiance in this respect, we may also take it into our heads to set it at defiance in other respects.
 Mr. Cobbett  asked, would the House believe, that 2,000 l.
 Mr. Cobbett,  objected to this money being sent out of England to be spent in Germany and elsewhere. The sum drawn from the people of England in this manner since the peace, amounted to 2,000,000 l.
 Mr. Cobbett  observed, that, this seemed a quarrel between the sister services, which, being a mere family affair, should be left to be settled by the parties themselves. He should like to know how the people of Devon, the noble Lord's constituents, would like to have a sum of 6,500 l. l. 1380
 Mr. Gillon  considered the yeomanry not merely a useless but a dangerous force—the most dangerous that could be employed. It was not possible that they should be under the same subordination and discipline as the regular troops, and, therefore, they could not be expected, on sudden emergencies, to act with as much firmness and coolness. The allusion which had been made to Manchester was most unfortunate. When the circumstances which had occurred there were referred to, they ought to deter Gentlemen from voting for a force which was so liable to be influenced by local prejudices. He should support the reduction proposed by the hon. member for Middlesex, conceiving the force worse than useless.
 Mr. O'Reilly  said, that he was no advocate for old ascendancy establishments, and therefore he would advocate the abolition of Kilmainham. The Irish people did not care for such establishments. Catholics were excluded from the benefits of Kilmainham, as well as from other establishments of Ireland; and as long as that was the case, he did not care how soon they were removed.
 Mr. O'Reilly  would ask the hon. member for Dublin to move for a return of the number of Catholics admitted to Kilmainham, and then he would find, by the return that it was an exclusively Protestant establishment. Catholics were eligible to all places, to the Corporations even;
 1390
 Mr. Tooke,  in rising to express his entire concurrence in the principle of the Bill, and his opinion that its machinery, subject to some modifications in detail, was well calculated to carry that principle into effect, begged he might be permitted, as germane to the matter, to save the time of a more formal application, to ask the noble Paymaster of the Forces whether it was his intention to bring in a Bill for amending the English Reform Act, in consequence of his pledge to that effect of last Session, and of Reports since received from the Revising Barristers? or whether he would appoint a Select Committee to consider those Reports?
 Sir Charles Burrell,  as a trustee to Smith's Charity, opposed the Bill, because it would injure that Charity.
 The Speaker  informed the hon. Member, that his Motion for a Committee was unnecessary, for, though the subject-matter of the petition could not, undoubtedly, form part of the Army Estimates (which were to be proposed to-night), yet, as his Majesty had given his consent to the presentation of the petition, it might be taken into consideration in the Committee of Supply. The proper course, therefore, for the hon. Member to adopt was, to allow all the petitions on this subject to be presented, and then, after the order of the day being read, and previous to the Speaker leaving the chair, to move that they be referred to the Committee of Supply.
 The Speaker  wished to know what course the hon. Member proposed to follow with reference to this matter?
 Sir Henry Parnell  said, that the commutation of pensions did not emanate from him; and when he took office, he found the system recommended, and a
 1389
 Sir James Graham  had certainly made some inquires on the subject; but, having only returned to town late that afternoon, they had been of necessity limited in their extent. Although, therefore, they were not quite so satisfactory as he could have wished, the result of them was, that the statement he had given on a former night was quite correct. The men were now standing out for wages, which would amount to 2 l. s l. s
 Sir Richard Vyvyan,  having had the honour to attend several meetings on the subject of the Bill before the House, thought it necessary to say a few words. He thought the hon. member for Buckingham had been rather severe upon the promoters of the measure; for, after alluding to the title of the Bill, he held that it was not the great Western Railway Bill, but a Bill for making a railway from London to
 1363
 Sir Robert Inglis  merely wished to express a hope, that the decision of the Committees to be appointed under the Bill should be made decisive of the several matters referred to them, as he quite agreed with the right hon. Baronet in opinion with regard to the evil effects attendant upon the power of appeal. If they appointed any tribunal, it ought to be a competent one, intrusted with absolute power of decision. Of course, when he spoke in opposition to a tribunal of appeal, he did not mean to exclude the House of Commons from exercising its control over the Reports of its Committees.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the Bill proposed by the noble Lord was intended as a remedy to enable the House to escape the difficulties by which it had felt itself encumbered the other evening, when the questions relating to the boroughs of Carrickfergus, Stafford, and Liverpool were under consideration. The object of the Bill was to enable them to provide a tribunal more satisfactorily constituted than any tribunal at present existing, for the purpose of inquiring into allegations of bribery and corruption. In the general object of the Bill he concurred. It seemed to be extremely desirable that the House should have the means of making an example of those boroughs in which, it could be proved that general and systematic bribery had prevailed; and, with the exception of the House itself, there was not at present any satisfactory tribunal before which allegations of bribery and corruption could be properly investigated. Agreeing, therefore, in the general principle of the Bill, he begged to call the attention of the House to its enactments. It provided that, in case there should be an Election Committee appointed in the course of its inquiry, an allegation of general bribery and corruption in the borough should be made, in that case, the allegation against the return of the Member, and the allegation against the general purity of
 1391 1392 1393 1394 1395
 Sir Robert Peel  was anxious, once more, to impress upon the attention of the noble Lord the immense importance of having the Committees, by whose decisions, not merely the return of particular elections, but the general right of voting was to be affected, selected on some more fixed principle than that of a chance ballot. With regard to the noble Lord's apprehensions of placing the Speaker in an invidious position, by calling upon him to nominate the Committees, he must say, that he thought them altogether unfounded. He put it to the noble Lord, whether any man, a Member of that House, having a Committee to appoint, and meaning to act fairly, ever found a difficulty in select-
 1400
 Mr. Hutt  presented a petition from Kingston-on-Hull, numerously and respectably signed, praying that compensation might be granted to Captain Ross.
 Lord Althorp  thought it would be quite enough to call upon a Committtee to report the facts proved in evidence before them, as well as their opinions upon those facts, without requiring them to pronounce a binding decision. The suggestions of the right hon. member for Tamworth were, he was free to admit, worthy of consideration, and, as far as he was concerned, he promised they should receive it. He did not agree in the form of nomination recommended by the right hon. Baronet; but, at the same time, he thought it might be possible, by taking that recommendation into consideration, so to nominate the Committees that, while the evil effects of selecting them by ballot were removed, the Speaker might not be placed in the invidious situation of having the entire nomination of them intrusted to his discretion.
 Lord Althorp  replied, that a measure of the description alluded to was under the consideration of Government, but, until it was ascertained how far the Reports of the
 1399
 Lord Althorp  said, he could not undertake to do so, as the inquiry was not strictly of an official character. It was solely instituted for the satisfaction of the Government, with whom would, of course, be the responsibility of introducing the measure to which the question of the hon. Member referred.
 Lord Althorp  said, he was authorised to signify his Majesty's consent to the presentation of the petition.
 Lord Ebrington  bore testimony to the excellent conduct and discipline of the yeomanry corps of the county of Devon upon all occasions. A few days ago an East-India vessel was thrown upon the northern coast of Devon, with a most valuable cargo, which would have been totally lost, but for the excellent conduct of the yeomanry corps of that county.
 Lord Ebrington  was satisfied, that the people of Devon would be as anxious as he was to do justice to those who had served their country meritoriously. They would not grudge those officers the rewards which they deserved, and this was the feeling with which he had proposed this vote.
 Lord Ebrington  said, that neither service had been more favoured than the other. The allowance of the officers of the army had been reduced from 30,000 l. l.
 Lord Ebrington  rose to bring forward his Motion of which he had given notice. He would move, "That, in pursuance of the recommendation of the Committee on Army and Navy Appointments, a sum not exceeding 6,500 l. l.
 Lord Ebrington  withdrew his Motion, and the Resolution was agreed to.
 Lord Sandon  presented a petition to the same effect signed in a very short time by many inhabitants of Liverpool. His Lordship said, that he was sure the hon. member for Oldham did not speak the sentiments of the labouring classes of this country, when he expressed himself hostile to the remuneration of an individual who, for the promotion of science, had sacrificed a great portion of his private fortune, and spent four years of his life amidst the severest privations.
 Mr. John Stanley  considered, that the question of a separation between Church and State affected the members of the Church of England as much as the Dis-
 7
 Colonel Evans  begged leave to say, that the body of Dissenters was extremely dissatisfied with the nature of the Bill brought into that House by the noble Lord the Paymaster of the Forces. His constituents concurred in the prayer of the petition, and he would only express a hope that if the noble Lord should be prevented from bringing in a Bill that would satisfy the claims of the Dissenters, that the hon. and learned Member (Dr. Lushington) would take upon himself the important duty of proposing a Bill that would be satisfactory to that numerous and enlightened body.
 Mr. John Stanley , in explanation, said, he had only said, he considered the mention of the connexion of Church and State as a mere speculative opinion; and, with regard to their separation, he had merely said, it would only be required when it should be proved, that the existence of the connexion was incompatible with the obtaining for so large a portion of our fellow-subjects their reasonable and just rights. If upon the removal of the specific grievances, there should exist no other practical grievance, then he could not agree to any speculative measure for dissolving the connexion.
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to move for the appointment of a Committee to consider the oaths which were taken, and those, if any, which ought to be taken by Members of the House. He trusted that the importance of the question would induce the House to comply and allow of the nomination of the Committee. He acknowledged that his object was to abolish all religious oaths upon Members taking their seats in that House, and, if necessary, to substitute a declaration disclaiming, in the most unequivocal manner, all species of bribery and corruption at their election. Whether the House were disposed to go so far as he wished to go or not, ought not to influence them in deciding the question, whether a Committee should be appointed or not. He was prepared to lay before the House the strongest grounds for the appointment of such a Committee; and they were to be found in the nature of oaths taken, being different in one class of Members from those of another. In fact, there were established three different modes of swearing or affirming in coming into that House—the Protestant swore—the Catholic swore—the Quaker affirmed—and the Moravian would have an equal right to take his seat on making an affirmation if elected. He thought, that the time had now arrived when the necessity of taking an oath because of the religious persuasion of the person to whom it was administered, ought to be done away.
 16 17 18 19 20 l 21 22 23 24
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  concurred entirely in the opinion just laid down by his hon. and learned friend (Dr. Lushington); and was glad that his hon. and learned friend had risen to give an explanation. He agreed that, in the multitude and unnecessary multiplication of oaths, there was the greatest danger that a strict observance of those oaths would not be regarded, by which means the strong and general impression as to the security of the obligation of an oath would be diminished. He felt bound to say, however, that he certainly thought that one observation of his hon. and learned friend justified the impression, that he was against the administration of oaths altogether. His hon. and learned friend said, that the doctrines which he had that night advanced would not have been tolerated in an unreformed House of Commons. He wished that some of the doctrines which had been laid down by his hon. and learned friend might never be tolerated or supported in any House of Commons. He (Mr. Stanley) had ever given his cordial and earnest assent to the measures of relief to the Catholics and the Dissenters, which he considered of the greatest importance. He had supported two measures, to which, ever since he had taken part in political transactions, he had considered himself bound and pledged, not by previously-declared opinions; but he felt himself bound by the dictates of his own feelings, and by the convictions of his mind, to get rid of all impositions and checks on the civil rights of those who dissented from the doctrines of the Church of England. Another great measure, to which he considered himself pledged, was one by which the people of England would have the power of checking and influencing the proceedings of the House of Commons. He rejoiced that
 41 42 43 44 en masse 45 s s 46
 Mr. Secretary Stanley:  What he had stated was, that when any question relating to the temporalities of the Church was brought forward, the conduct of the Roman Catholic Gentlemen should be consistent with the oath they had taken to abjure all intention of subverting the Protestant Church as by law established.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley:  The words of the oath clearly fixed the interpretation that ought to be given to it. The party taking it, swore that he abjured all intention of subverting the Protestant Church as by law established.
 Mr. O'Connell , in reply, said, he could not think that the mooting of this question could possibly excite any warmth of feeling, or probably any feeling at all, out of that House. He was not the person to whom the hon. and learned Member replied on the occasion referred to by the hon. member for Oldham. In reference to the statement of the right hon. member for Tamworth, to the effect that he made a speech at the Bar of the House in 1829, claiming to sit, and offering to take the oaths which he now wished to get rid of, he replied, that he not only offered to take the oath, but had taken it; but that since taking it, a controversy had arisen as to its meaning, which gave him uneasiness, from which he wished to be relieved by a distinct definition of the intent and meaning of the oath in one way or the other. The hon. Baronet, the member for the University of Oxford, had indulged in some self-gratulation at the alleged fulfilment of some prophecy of his as to the admission of Catholics into the House, and had candidly lamented that he saw him (Mr. O'Connell) there. He would not return the compliment; for as long as any question involving the principles of religious liberty, or any liberal and enlightened policy remained to be discussed, he desired no other adversary than the hon. Baronet. The hon. Baronet had thought it necessary to revive the whole question of the Coronation Oath, and the result of his argument upon it went to this, that the King had committed perjury. Now he was willing to be put in the same category of perjurers with his present Majesty and his deceased brother, and, if they had been guilty of perjury, certainly he had also. Neither had been guilty, or both. The speech of the right hon. Secretary, had treated the House to a speech the first part of which was eminently Conservative, and the last as highly theological. He had given them, however, a pretty good specimen of the necessity of some change in these matters by stating that he had witnessed the commission of perjury by eleven Roman Catholics; but according to his own account he, as a Magistrate, must have participated in the perjury by administering the oath.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  begged to ex-
 53
 Mr. O'Connell  said, it appeared, then, that there was no oath taken, and therefore no perjury in the case at all. The right hon. Gentleman, however, had admitted that a part of an Act of Parliament had been levelled at him (Mr. O'Connell) and he wished the right hon. Gentleman and the Government had not gone further, and that he had not also had a paragraph of a King's Speech levelled at him. He contended, however, that under this clause of the Act, all the Roman Catholics were made to swear was, that they would not subvert the Established Church. They did not swear to continue it. They did not swear to maintain tithes and oblations. Surely religion was not a thing of pounds, shillings, and pence, and it was the established religion which they were not to subvert. There were two churches in Ireland, one established by law, the other by the people. Would the Protestant be less an Established Church if deprived of its temporalities? Having the provisions of his oath before him, he would not have voted on the question whether there should be ten or twenty bishops—he would not have voted to abolish the order of bishops, or to alter the thirty-nine articles; but the Church Temporalities involved a different question. With regard, however, to temporal property given to them by an Act of Parliament, he felt himself as much at liberty to deal as any other Member of the Legislature. The noble Lord opposite had assumed that the appointment of a Committee upon this subject, might be open to objection in point of form, and therefore he (Mr. O'Connell) could not think that with propriety he could divide the House, though he begged it to be understood, that he by no means abandoned the question. It was a subject
 54
 Colonel Wood  said, there were several objectionable details in the hon. Baronet's Bill of last year; but, at the same time, he must say, that it was the general wish of the middling and upper classes of society that some legislative measure should be adopted by the House to ensure the better observance of the Sabbath. He was aware it was a difficult thing to legislate on such a subject. His own impression was, that a great deal more might be done by example on the part of the hon. Members of that House, than by any Act of Parliament they could pass on the sub-
 57
 Colonel Evans  would support the present Motion, though, if the Bill, when introduced, should be found at all like that of last Session, it would meet with his most decided opposition. He concurred in the sentiment, that wages should be paid earlier in the week than Saturday, and he would suggest the propriety of some provision being introduced into the Bill against those payments being made in public-houses.
 Mr. Lennard  said, that in most of the agricultural districts, the farmer had to depend upon the produce of the sale of his goods in the Saturday markets for the payment of the wages of his labourers; so that any alteration in this respect would be so far disadvantageous. There were many practical points to which the hon. Baronet who had brought forward the present Motion might turn his attention; but, if he attempted to bring in a Bill at all like that of last year, he was satisfied that it could not, by any possibility, be carried.
 Mr. Philip Howard  opposed the Motion. He was decidedly opposed to granting local authorities such an extent of arbitrary power as would be allowed them under the proposed Bill. To give them the power of changing the fairs and markets of the whole country was giving them a power which they should not possess, and which, if exercised, would spread alarm, discontent, and mischief, through the entire country. In fact, it would interfere with the mercantile transactions of society, and disturb all the commercial and agricultural relations of the kingdom. If it were designed to cure one evil, it would produce many. He could not conceive how that multiplication of Bills could tend to a better observance of the Sabbath.
 Mr. O'Connell  concurred with the hon. Member who had just spoke, and must
 62
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  observed, that if there was any Bill which contained little or nothing objectionable, it was this. It merely gave a power to Magistrates to change the days on which a fair or market might be held, and he saw no mischief that could ensue from depositing this power in their hands.
 Mr. Mark Philips  said, that great inconvenience would ensue from such a Bill. The town which he had the honour to represent, had its market-day on a Saturday, and one of the great Smithfield market days was held on a Monday. He presumed it was intended by the hon. Baronet to close the manufactories at an early hour on the Saturday in order to allow the artizans to go to market early on the Saturday afternoon, but he thought this object hardly attainable.
 Lord Morpeth  said, that as an opposition had been offered to this pacific measure, he felt it his duty to remind the House that he had formerly presented a petition from a large number of the graziers of Skipton, whose prayer was in accordance with the spirit of the Bill proposed to be introduced. He thought that this fact showed that no practical inconvenience would ensue on the enactment of the proposed measure.
 Mr. Gisborne's  objection to this Bill lay against investing Magistrates with so much power. As for the measure itself, it was so exceedingly preposterous, that he should not waste any observations upon it. In almost all county towns the market was held on the Saturday. He hoped the House would not entertain the Motion.
 Sir John Wrottesley  maintained, that the effect of the measure sought to be introduced by the hon. Baronet, would be to displace all the subsisting arrangements which related to the times of holding fairs and markets. In the country many small
 63
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that if leave were given to bring in the Bill, that would not pledge the House to the provisions of it more than the House was pledged to the provisions of the former Bill. It was better to let all the Bills be brought in, that the House might see the whole plan. The present Bill might be considered one of the wings of the previous Bill. He (Sir R. Peel) by voting for the Motion was not pledged to the provisions of the Bill; but if they rejected the present Bill, it would imply  ipso facto
 Mr. Secretary Stanley:  The right hon. Gentleman, in the course of the Address that he has made to the House, has so pointedly alluded to me, that I trust my right hon. friend, the Secretary for Ireland, will excuse me if I rise before him to state, in a few words, the reasons upon which I feel myself compelled—though I agree in a great measure with the right hon. Gentleman in the observations that he has made to object to the Address which he now moves. I do not at all impugn the correctness of the statement which the right hon. Gentleman has made with respect to the Commissioners of Ecclesiastical Inquiry, whose recommendation I, for one, am very far from undervaluing. I do not deny that the Commissioners, haying prosecuted their inquiries in that part of the country, recommended the extinction of the deaneries of Down and Raphoe; but I was not aware of that fact at the time that the preferment was given to the present dean of Down. The deanery of Raphoe, however, fell vacant at a subsequent period,
 68 69 l l l 70
 Mr. Ruthven  was not surprised at the ignorance shown by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Stanley) knowing, as he did, the polluted sources from which that right hon. Gentleman derived his information. Every one who knows any thing about the county Down, knows very well the deanery is worth above 3,000 l
 Mr. Secretary Stanley:  I rise for the purpose of very briefly explaining the statement which I have already made to the House, because, in the first place, I cannot conceive that the right hon. Baronet would recommend the displacing of this individual, the appointment, having taken place; and, in the next place, I think the right hon. Baronet has argued this question as if I had contended, which I did not, that it was not intended, and that forthwith, to carry into effect—so far as it could be carried into effect—the recommendation of the Commissioners. I have not got the Report before me; but if the right hon. Baronet will turn to it, he will see, that the recommendation of the Commissioners was for such a dissolution of the union of Down as would give the dean a nett income of 3,100 l 74 l l l Ruthven: l l
 Mr. Secretary Stanley:  Really the hon. Gentleman does not seem exactly to understand the question. They have a separate clergyman now—there is a dean with a large perferment—a Curate and vicar on small preferments. Now, the object was to effect such a dissolution of the union as should endow each living with the rectorial tithes of its own parishes. Had this been done originally, the Rector and perpetual Curate would have been appointed by an authority over which his Majesty's Government would possess no control.
 Mr. Ruthven  wished to remark, that one of the Commissioners appointed to value livings in the southern part of Ireland, was the son of the present holder of the deanery of Down.
 Mr. Halcombe  rose, pursuant to his notice, to move the appointment of a "Select Committee to take into consideration the evidence already before the House, relative to the borough of Warwick, and to report to the House full particulars respecting the cases of bribery, and the class or description of persons bribed; and whether any treating, and to what extent, by the authority of the candidates or their agents, occurred after the issuing of the writ; and particularly to report whether in the event of disfranchising the parties bribed, or that class of electors to which they belonged, a sound and competent constituency would remain in the borough; and that such Committee be appointed by ballot, two Members being named by the House." The hon. and learned Member adverted to the Report of the Committee to which the case of the borough had been referred, and said, that he had asked the hon. and gallant Officer (Sir Ronald C. Ferguson)
 80
 Mr. Halcombe  contended, that a course ought to be pursued with respect to Warwick, similar to that which the House had adopted with respect to the borough of Carrickfergus; and confidently submitted his Motion to the House.
 Colonel Conolly  knew it was desired by all parties that an arrangement should be made, and he himself could not understand why it had not been carried into effect sooner. The very incumbents of those deaneries, knowing that the law was hanging over their heads, were anxious for a settlement, and so, he repeated, were all parties. The present state of things conduced very much to their own inconvenience, and to the discredit of the Church. He differed from the right hon. Secretary as to the patronage of the livings attached to the deanery of Raphoe. The incumbent of one of those parishes is of a very advanced age, and the routine of appointing to the benefice, in all probability, will very soon take place. The right hon. Secretary stated, that the right of presentation rested with the chapter. He believed it rested with the dean. This, then, was a point upon which very considerable inconvenience might arise, unless some arrangement were speedily made Therefore, as far as his humble voice could prevail with the Government, he would urge them to the immediate fulfilment of the recommendation of the Irish Ecclesiastical Commissioners, and to allow the incum-
 71
 Colonel Davies  said, that with reference to what had fallen from the right hon. Secretary for Ireland, he begged to remind the House, that this appointment took place long before the passing of the Church Temporalities' Bill. He could not help saying, that in his opinion this was one of the most scandalous cases of abuse that ever came under the consideration of the House. They were told, that the question was under the consideration of the Privy Council. Who was the most important member of that. Privy Council? Why, the Lord Chancellor himself; and thus he was to be constituted as the Judge of his own act. He was very sorry the right hon. Baronet had been induced to withdraw his Motion. He thought the sense of the House ought to be taken upon it; and he had no doubt, that if he pressed it, we would be enabled to carry it.
 Mr. Langdale  concurred with the hon. and learned member for Dublin that upon the words of the oath some difficulty and doubt did arise. When that was the case, the only course to be pursued was, to see what interpretation was put upon oaths of a similar character. Were there any oaths of a similar character to those in question? The first to which he should allude was the oath taken by the King himself. Different opinions prevailed as to the construction and effect of that oath; and he well remembered the hon. Baronet, the member for the University of Oxford, positively stating, when the Bill for the reform of the Irish Church was introduced last year, that it was incompatible with the King's oath to sanction such a measure. Now, in what more direct terms were the Catholic Members called upon to speak than those employed in the King's oath? His Majesty was asked by the Archbishop, "Will you preserve to the bishops and clergy of the Established Faith the churches committed to their care, with all the rights and privileges which do or shall appertain to them?" and he an-
 27
 Mr. Langdale  begged leave to make a few observations upon the question before the House. Without pretending to know all the details of the measure which the
 6
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  was glad that the question of the oath was likely to be set at rest. At present such was the dubious state in which Roman Catholics were placed, that they were taunted with a construction of the oath inconsistent with their principles, when they voted on certain questions. For instance, on the subject of Irish Church temporalities, or any other subject connected with the Established Church, they were placed in a disagreeable and painful situation. He hoped, if the question could not be settled
 51
 Mr. O'Dwyer  thought, that the conduct of the Roman Catholic Members of that House had justly entitled them to call for the abolition of this oath. He thought it expedient that the question should be set at rest. He was willing to concur in a declaratory resolution which should relieve Roman Catholic Members from the imputation (however courteously expressed) of forgetting the obligations imposed upon them by their oaths. He should, of course, vote for granting the Committee.
 Mr. O'Dwyer:  Both.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  hoped the House would be called over. His own Motion stood for the 15th April.
 Mr. Harvey  said, the subjects treated of in the petition were of very great importance to a most respectable and valuable part of the community. It was important that the House should understand what were the feelings of the non-conformist body; but, at the same time, should not attach more weight to a petition coming from their apparently authorised representatives than it deserved. Certainly those Ministers could not be held to speak the sentiments of all the Dissenters, when they said, that they did not desire the separation of Church and State. When they said that the Dissenters did not desire a separation of the Church and State, although they spoke of the union as not being necessary towards the support of Christianity, he must protest against such a speculative dogma; for so it was, and no man could regard the union as an article of faith. He fully concurred in the desire to obtain for the Dissenters a redress of all their practical grievances, and he hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite would lend them his support.
 Mr. Baines  did not think, that the union of Church and State was one which the petition considered as an important point: he imagined that it was merely a theoretical opinion, and not one which was urged upon the Legislature as requiring an immediate consideration. He had a petition in his hand in which the Dissenters declared that they were favourable to a separation of Church and State, but they reserved the discussion of that question for a future time.
 Mr. Littleton  perhaps might he allowed to suggest, that the House should abstain from expressing a very strong or decided opinion on this case, until it had ascertained the nature of the course taken by the Lord Lieutenant in Council—because the declared opinion might be, that in this case there was nothing to complain of. Whether this would be the case or not, he, of course, was unable to say; but this touch he might state, that he (Mr. Little-
 77
 Mr. Littleton  said, as most of the circumstances to which this Motion related took place prior to his coming into office, he was requested by his right hon. friend, the Secretary for the Colonies, to give way to him, and to allow him to reply to the observations that were made by the right hon. Gentleman opposite in submitting his Motion. In point of fact, he had nothing whatever to offer in explanation of what had passed, except with respect to that which had occurred since the passing of the Church Temporalities' Bill. As soon as the Commission was appointed under that Bill, they entered upon the parishes connected with the deanery of Down, to make a return of their incomes. Some obstacles had stood in the way of obtaining these returns; but they were now made, and were last week brought before the Lord-lieutenant and the Privy Council of Ireland. With respect to Raphoe, the right hon. Gentleman had himself admitted, that there were circumstances which admitted of delay. In that case all the parties had been called upon to make a return of their incomes, and the whole of these returns had been made, except in one instance; and when that was made, the whole would be brought under the consideration of the Council. Under these circumstances he must join with his right hon. colleague, in hoping that the right hon. Gentleman would not press his Motion.
 Mr. Littleton , without wishing to be understood as approving of the details of the Bill, would vote for its admission, as he conceived the law, as it at present existed for the observance of the Sabbath, required alteration. He admitted, that the example of hon. Members and others would, in such a case, have greater force than legislation. One of the greatest instances of Sabbath profanation was the markets held in so many places on the morning of that day. What, he would ask
 58
 Mr. Ayshford Sanford  considered that the petition presented by the hon. Member should be considered as an official representation of the opinions of the Dissenters. The grievances under which they laboured were very great; and he hoped the House would apply a remedy. Those disabilities disunited the Dissenters from the Established Church, and it was the duty of the Legislature to remove them. He was anxious for one general discussion upon that subject: taking it by piecemeal was not productive of advantage. He heard, from every part of the country which he represented, that the Bill to be introduced for the relief of Dissenters gave no satisfaction.
 Mr. Robinson  had no objection to the introduction of the Bill, which, if it could be shown to be at all calculated to advance the interests of religion, should have his support. He should, however, watch closely that its provisions were impartial in their application to all classes of the community, and that they did not interfere with the innocent enjoyments of the labouring portion of his Majesty's subjects.
 Mr. Robinson  said, when he first heard the statement of the right hon. Gentleman opposite, he was induced to think that he might have voted with his Majesty's Government, but after the explanation which
 76
 Mr. Sinclair  said, the hon. Member opposite had faithfully pointed out what the real object of the Dissenters was, and proved to the House, that nothing else would satisfy them but the separation of Church and State. It was true, they did not demand that now—they were too prudent—they wished to put it off, and to content themselves with some minor matters. But why did they act so? Because they knew they would not succeed at present; and because they required those other things as so many stepping-stones to the other object.
 Mr. Sinclair  presented a Petition from the City of Edinburgh, against the system of Church Patronage in Scotland, and two petitions from other places in Scotland, upon the same subject. The hon. Member said, he perceived that the national cemetery for petitions was prepared for the reception of the important document, which he had the honour to present; but in consigning it to the leathern mausoleum under the Table, he could not rest satisfied with acting the part of a mute. He had often admired the alacrity which Irish Members evinced when laying petitions before the House, to vindicate the motives of their constituents from misrepresentation, or to enforce their sentiments by argument. He should imitate their zeal, though he could not equal their eloquence; and he would venture to claim the indulgence of the House, whilst he brought under its notice a petition against Church Patronage, from the metropolis of Scotland, signed by several thousand inhabitants, comprising ministers and elders of the Church, and other persons most ardently attached to its doctrines and institutions. He took that opportunity of noticing an aspersion which had been cast on the petitioners, and others who held similar opinions. They had been charged, not only within the House, but in many influential quarters out of doors, with maintaining principles repugnant to the constitution of the Established Church, which had been uniformly opposed by its most distinguished champion, and must lead, if triumphant, to its subversion. In justice to those who had honoured him with the care of their petitions, and against whom no accusation could be more painful to their feelings, more injurious to their character, or more unmerited by the line of conduct which they had adopted, he should not express any sentiment of his own, but submit to the
 10 11 12
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that, from all he had yet heard, there was no difference between the Bill of last year and that which was now sought to be introduced. He thought that, as the question had been disposed of last Session, it was too much again to ask the House to deliberate upon the same measure upon which the hon. Baronet had already failed. The House was, at least, entitled to have been in-
 60
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the subject which he was anxious to bring under the consideration of the House, was one upon which it would not be necessary for him to detain them for many minutes; and if they would give him their attention, he was sure no objection would be made to the adoption of his proposition. His object was, to propose an Address to the Crown, praying his Majesty to give effect to the recommendation of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners (Ireland), with respect to the deanery of Down and Raphoe, whose Report had been before the House now for the space of nearly three years. The present subject was one upon which he felt a good deal of anxiety, but upon which he should, never-
 65 l 66 l l 67
 Mr. Goulburn  merely rose for the purpose of saying, that he was willing to accede to the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman opposite. He was quite confident, after what had passed to-night, and after the general expression of opinion on the part of the House, that the object he had in view in bringing this question forward would be effected, and therefore, without depriving himself of the opportunity of again bringing the question under the consideration of the House, should it be necessary, he thought it would be more becoming in him not to press the matter at present. With reference to the argument of the right hon. Gentleman, as to the operation of the Church Temporalities Bill having the effect of altering the Report of the Commissioners, he would only say, that if he had searched for the strongest argument which could be adduced in favour of this Motion, he could have found none of greater weight than that.
 Mr. Lambert  said, that it was preposterous for them to call on a man to swear that which their reason told them was absurd. Every oath should be clear and definite in its interpretation; but that was not the case in this instance. For his part he bore no ill-will to the Protestant Church, nor did he wish to see it subverted. On the contrary, so long as a State religion was necessary in the country he devoutly wished it to be Protestant. All he desired was, that the objectionable part of this oath should be erased from it, and he thought that if it were to run thus—"I do promise and swear to be faithful and bear true allegiance to his Majesty, and that I will uphold and support the constitution of the country as by law established"—it would not only be satisfactory, but answer all the purposes which could render an oath useful or desirable.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that, since the hon. Baronet had not thought fit to give any explanation of the provisions of the Bill he now asked the permission of the Mouse to bring in, the hon. member for Wigan was, perhaps, justified in dealing as he had done with the Bill of last year. He, however, hoped the hon. member for Wigan would not divide the House at the present stage, but would allow the hon. Baronet to try his hand a second time. For one, he (Mr. Warburton) should not oppose him.
 Mr. Hardy  reminded the hon. Member who had just sat down, that the second reading of the Bill of last Session was only lost by a majority of six, in a House consisting of 160 Members, and that, too, at a late hour of the night, and an advanced period of the Session. That circumstance was alone amply sufficient to justify the hon. Baronet in persevering with the Bill, which he (Mr. Hardy) hoped would secure full protection to the journeymen bakers of London and every other class of artizans in the country. He should give his support to the Motion.
 Mr. Leech , knew that a very strong feeling existed on this subject in England,
 52
 Mr. Richards  said, the numerous petitions which had been presented during the last and present Session, manifested a strong feeling in the public mind in favour of some legislation on this subject, and the Motion should, therefore, have his support.
 Mr. Roebuck  could not think there existed any necessity for legislation on this subject, when it could not be denied that the observance of the Sabbath was now much more decorous than at any former period. If they were now to legislate on this subject, he would ask the hon. Baronet to take care how he applied his legislation. Let the hon. Baronet take care to legislate impartially—to commence with the pastimes of the rich, and not with those of the poor man. Let him not stop the stage coach, which was the poor man's vehicle, and pass the travelling carriage of the rich man—let him, instead of stopping the omnibus, interfere with the chariot; rather than stop the steam-boats, let him lay an embargo on the pleasure-yacht, and stop the private parties of the wealthy; and instead of preventing the labourer enjoying the recreation of the open fields in the vicinity of the metropolis, let him stop up Hyde-park. If the Bill were impartial, and meant any thing, it meant this. The 500 half-choked citizens, who embarked upon a steam-boat in the river Thames, were not guilty, by 10,000 degrees, of so great a desecration of the Sabbath, as he (Mr. Roebuck) had witnessed in one day in Hyde-park. He hoped the Bill would enforce strict regulations with reference to the rich, and, if so, it should have his support.
 Mr. Wilks  said, that having the honour to be acquainted with many of those individuals who signed this petition, he felt that he should not do justice to them, if he did not express the high sense he entertained of their learning, influence, and piety. His hon. friend, the member for Colchester, had spoken of them in terms of respect which no one who knew them could avoid; but he was apprehensive that the House would not understand, from the manner in which his hon. friend had adverted to them, the real weight of their opinions. The whole non-conformist body were scattered throughout this empire, and had been in existence nearly two centuries; the petitioners were composed of the Dissenting Ministers of the Independent, Baptist, and Presbyterian, denominations of this Metropolis, and within ten miles of London. They were not only entitled to respect on account of their individual intelligence, but, he would take the liberty of saying, that when it was recollected that every one of them had been educated for the Christian ministry, and selected for that office by a large and respectable body of the community, such men, after meeting together, and discussing, did not merely express their own opinion, but gave expression to the sentiments of the vast, he might say, innumerable, body of intelligent, wealthy, and influential Protestant Dissenters in this Metropolis; therefore, whatever sentiment they expressed, might be considered as the expression of the body at large, and, whatever grievance was complained of by them, the House might rest assured, would be universally complained of by the whole body of non-conformists, and, therefore, entitled to the consideration of the House. Much as he respected the manly spirit of the hon. member for Colchester, whose love of liberty might lead him to consider that the severance of Church and State ought to be effected, he begged to say, the Dissenters of the Metropolis did not t wish to make that a prominent subject of discussion now, but rather to confine themselves to practical grievances. He concurred in many of the observations made by the learned Civilian who presented the petition, and the petitioners having committed it to his hands, he being connected with the Church, showed that they did not desire what the learned Civilian could not support, while they were
 5
 Mr. Hume  said, it appeared to him that the question was treated by the right hon. Gentleman as if it were merely a money question. Now, he perfectly well remembered, that when an hon. Baronet, not now a Member of this House, introduced his Motion for the appointment o those Commissioners, the great advantage which was dwelt upon as likely to result from their inquiries was this—that the individuals frequenting the different Churches, in the union, would be very much convenienced by having a separate clergyman appointed to each.
 Mr. Hume  was quite aware of the facts which the right hon. Gentleman had just stated. What he was about to observe was, that it was stated as a very important ground for the Motion, that the clergyman officiating in each of the parishes would have each of them, an adequate income, depending on his own efforts, and quite unconnected with any individual holding the monopoly of the rectory. Now, he must say, that this became a question of very serious importance, when after the Commissioners had declared their opinion in favour of a change, one of those Commissioners departed from that recommendation in favour of his own son. It certainly did appear to him, as the right hon. Baronet below him had very truly said, that if ever there was a case in which this House would be justified in interfering with an appointment of this description, it was this. He should very much like to know, who recommended this individual; who proposed to the Lord Chancellor of Ireland the promotion of his own son, and whether it was given at his own recommendation? He thought this was just that species of case in which the House ought to have the fullest possible information laid before it. Alter the appointment of this individual by the Lord Chancellor of Ireland, he really could see no injustice in this House silting as a Court of Equity, agreeing upon an Address to his Majesty, praying him to have justice done in this case, and that the recommendation of the Commissioners, which this House generally is of opinion it would be advantageous to adopt, may not be set aside by any of the parties interested in the question.
 Mr. Pease  was the last man who could ever be induced to think that a country could be made religious by an Act of Parliament; but he had received such communications from almost every town in the county with which he was connected on this subject, that he should consider it his duty to give his best assistance towards getting the proposed Bill into Committee, where he should hope to get rid of those imperfections which the Bill of last year (and he was bound to believe the present Bill) contained, and to lead by such amendments as might appear desirable to the promotion of good order, morality, and religion, in this country. But he thought, that his hon. friend was not bound to show that this particular Bill would produce all the results hoped for. He should vote for the introduction of the Bill, reserving to himself the liberty of proposing any alterations he might think necessary when it was in Committee.
 Mr. Methuen  said, that he had presented several petitions from bodies of Dissenters on the subject of the Established Church; but he denied, that any wish was expressed in them that the union between Church and State should be dissolved.
 Mr. Methuen  said, that as no petition that he had presented contained such a prayer, the hon. and learned Gentleman's observations could not apply to the Dissenters from whom these petitions had come; and in their name, and on their behalf, he begged to disavow such sentiments.
 Mr. Philip Howard  thought the hon. and learned member for Dublin had exercised a very sound discretion in bringing the question before the House. When he compared the hon. and learned Member's definition of the obligations of the oath, with that of other Members professing the same religious faith, and when he saw good and honourable men of different religious principles, such as the hon. Baronet, the member for the University of Oxford, differing in their opinions as to the manner in which their consciences were bound by the oath, he found in those facts sufficient reason for believing that the sooner they were relieved from the oath the better. If the question had been put upon the ground of political expediency, he should have agreed with the right hon. Baronet, the member for Tamworth, that it had better not have been brought forward; but when it was declared to affect the sanctity of the obligations imposed by an oath, he thought it a ground winch demanded their attention. Belonging to one of those families which for centuries had been debarred by a very few words in an oath from the honour of a seat in that House, he thought that the oaths taken in the House ought not to be left subject to any doubt as to their strict meaning and force.
 Mr. Potter  hoped, that the hon. Baronet, the member for Wigton, in asking for leave to bring in a Bill upon this subject, did not wish the House to suppose that his present measure was anything like that which had been introduced last year. On a former occasion, the hon. Baronet had made no declaration to the House as to the provisions of the Bill, neither had he, in the present instance; and, therefore, he (Mr. Potter) had a right to assume, that no security was afforded that a similar measure would not be again brought forward. He held in his hand the Bill which had last year been submitted to the Legislature by the hon. Baronet, the very first clause of which would, by closing bakers' shops, lead, in a great many districts, to a still greater desecration of the Sabbath than at present. The former Bill also went to forbid buying or selling any commodity on a Sunday; now, he (Mr. Potter) was prepared to contend, that such traffic could not entirely be put down. At the time the Bill introduced last Session by the hon. Baronet was under discussion, he had made a point of visiting, on Sunday mornings, various parts of the City, and had ascertained that it was utterly impossible for many respectable classes otherwise to purchase the meat necessary for the consumption of themselves and their families, if they would have their food fit for that day's use. In some instances, he had followed the poor purchasers to their rooms, and he was the more satisfied that, if any meat was exposed from one day to the next to such a tainted atmosphere as pervaded many of the apartments he had
 56
 Mr. Sheil  thought that the revision of the emoluments of the deanery, and of all those unions, was suggested, a year ago. Now, what were the facts of this case? The Commissioners made a certain Report; they recommended the dissolution of these unions; an avoidance took place; the Government had cognizance, or ought to have had cognizance, of this fact; the Lord Chancellor was one of the Commissioners; this appointment was made in the name of the Government; and he appointed his own son. Now surely this simple fact was sufficient; there was no complaint—there was no reference to what had been done; and when the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies was Secretary for Ireland, did he remonstrate with the Lord Chancellor when he was in office? This occurred three Years ago, and he was Secretary for Ireland for two years during that period. Did the right hon. Gentleman communi-
 78 l l Littleton: l
 Mr. Sheil  said, it was not a little remarkable, that the oath was so framed, as to leave the party taking it, to put his own construction on it. There was, however, some difference of opinion on the subject; but he contended, that the party taking it alone could determine how far it was obligatory, and how far it was not binding upon him. The right hon. Secretary for the Colonies differed from the hon. Baronet, the member for Oxford, in thinking that the Roman Ca-
 47
 Mr. Sheil  begged to say, that he did not speak of all Dissenters. A petition had, however, been presented that day from a body of Dissenters, the prayer of which was for a separation such as he had described.
 Mr. Sheil:  The view which the right hon. Secretary had taken of the terms of the oath was a very narrow one. He must complain of the interruptions which he had already experienced; and said, that the right hon. Secretary had acted, in the present instance, with a species of courtesy and urbanity, which not unfrequently distinguished him, and for which he (Mr. Shed) supposed he was bound to say, he felt grateful and obliged. He denied, that there was any means of ascertaining which was the right or which was the wrong construction of the oath. There was a manifest distinction between the Protestant Religion or the Protestant Government and the temporalities annexed to the Established Church, and on this distinction it was, that Roman Catholics founded their right to interfere with the latter. It was not, however, from Roman Catholics that the right hon. Gentleman had most to apprehend for the safety of the Protestant Church. Without fear of contradiction, he could assert, that the Roman Catholics of Ireland had never expressed opinions so unfavourable to that Church, as those which were constantly expressed by Members of that House, and which were to be found in the numerous
 48
 Mr. Sheil  had not doubted that the right hon. Gentleman had admitted the right to interfere; but what he complained of was, that the right hon. Secretary had omitted to state how far that interference might be carried.
 Mr. Sheil  thought it was a remarkable circumstance that, notwithstanding the petitioners stated they did not at present pray for any separation, they at the outset of their petitions, laid down that abstract doctrine, and appeared to attribute all their grievances to the connexion between Church and State. Although they abstained from calling for separation, it was quite manifest that they called the attention of the House to the source of the evils under which they laboured. The Dissenters would not be contented with the Marriage Bill of the noble Lord, the Paymaster of the Forces. If the Dissenters were relieved from Church rates, why should they not be relieved from tithes? If they could not be legally called on to raise the edifice, why should they be required to support the minister who performed service in it.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  referred to the measure of the right hon. member for Montgomeryshire, for doing away with the oaths taken before the Lord Steward, and expressed his objection to all unnecessary oaths, as tending to bring those obligations into contempt. He particularly objected to the Oath of Supremacy, and the Oath of Abjuration, which latter, Protestants were absurdly called upon to take, while Roman
 * 50
 Dr. Lushington  said, in reply, that the Dissenters had a right to maintain their opinions; and if they conceived that the connexion between Church and State was hostile to the interests of Christianity, they were perfectly justified in coming forward and stating that. He would repeat, that nothing short of a proper and general system of registration would satisfy the Dissenters, and he regretted
 9
 Dr. Lushington  explained: He never intended to recommend the abolition of oaths of all descriptions. He merely meant to protest against the unnecessary administration of oaths in that House, and in the country, the practice of which tended to destroy their effect when administered in Courts of Justice.
 Dr. Lushington  did not rise to enter into any discussion as to the best form in which the question might be brought on, but to state his opinion that no oath whatever ought to be required from any Member of that House. He had never yet been able to discover that the administering of oaths had been attended with benefit. On referring to the transactions of past times, however apparently solemn the obligation of oaths might have been made, whenever an inducement sufficiently strong occurred, and the circumstances of the time were favourable, there had been no hesitation in violating the oaths, or in depriving the persons who imposed them of whatever security they expected to derive from them. He had many other reasons to advance against the existing system. In the first place, whatever might have been the case with an unreformed Parliament, he was opposed to any restrictions upon the free choice of the people of England in a Re-
 34 35
 Dr. Lushington  said, he was anxious, in presenting the petitions which he held in his hand, to occupy as little of the time of the House as possible, conceiving that the demands upon their time were numerous and important; but he also conceived, that it was part of his duty to state who were the petitioners who had signed the present petition; for, though it was a matter very familiar, yet it was of the greatest importance to that House and the country, and especially to those Gentlemen who took an interest in the subject, to know what it was that the petitioners required. The petition was signed by the general body of Dissenting Ministers of the three denominations residing in and about London, composing a body of as respectable and intelligent persons as were to be found of any denomination in the kingdom. They did not pray for a separation of
 3
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  hoped that the hon. Gentleman opposite was not serious in his opposition to the introduction of this Bill. There was a strong and general feeling abroad, that some improvement in the observance of the Sabbath was necessary, and if the public voice were to be regarded, the house would show, that they thought there was some room for improvement, and some necessity for legislation. In the metropolis, there were some abuses which ought to be put down, and some attention ought to be paid to the prayers of the large and respectable portion of their constituents who had addressed the House in favour of some such measure. Hon. Members had said,—and, in this particular, he fully concurred with them,—that they would set their faces against any partial legislation on this subject. But no partiality in favour of the rich against the poor was, he was sure, intended by the provisions of this Bill; and if there were any class of persons interested in the Bill, the poorer orders were the individuals, for some such enactment was peculiarly and emphatically necessary for the labouring population.
 Mr. Hudson  said, the hon. Baronet opposite was called on to state whether the Bill which he had then brought before the House was the same as, or different from, that of last Session; and it was contended that he was bound to show that before the House could accede to his Motion. But the hon. Baronet was not called on to enter at large into the nature and provisions of the Bill in that stage. The real question before the House was, whether it was desirable at all to bring in a Bill for the Better Observance of the Sabbath. He thought it was. He would venture to say, that no Member would vote against the introduction of such a Bill, if he was not prepared to show that it was unnecessary. He would vote for bringing in the Bill, but would reserve to himself the privilege of
 61
 Mr. Spring Rice:  In rising to move for a Call of the House on the occasions of the Motions of the 15th and 22nd of April, for an investigation of the Union with Ireland, he had to apologise for the terms in which he had given his notice of Motion; but that circumstance arose from the notices on the look—the one being for the 15th of April, and the next for the 22nd of April, for a Se-
 79
 Mr. Rice  said, he would not object to suspend the Motion of a Call of the House on a second notice of Motion, at the present moment, as he only wanted to have one full discussion, which he thought would be sufficient. But, he might find that the question fixed for the 15th was abandoned. If, then, the discussion for the 15th was not brought on on that day, he would move a Call of the House for the 22nd.
 Mr. Rice:  Then he would move, that this House be called over on both occasions. He knew it was unpopular to move a Call of the House; but he trusted he should stand excused, in resolving, that the call should be enforced on each occasion.
 Mr. Cobbett  had always been as friendly as he possibly could to the Roman Catholics, and because he was so, he regretted to see this Motion brought forward. The hon. and learned member for the Tower Hamlets (Dr. Lushington) was mistaken, if he believed that the people of England were insensible or indifferent upon this subject. Let there be an inquiry as to altering the oaths taken by Roman Catholic Members, and his opinion was, that the people of this country would be agitated from one end of the island to the other. The learned Doctor seemed to have changed his opinion on the subject of Roman Catholic oaths; for last year, in the debate on the Address, he called upon Roman Catholic Members to remember the oath which they had taken with respect to the
 49 *
 Mr. O'Reilly  expressed his regret that this question was mooted by any Catholic Member of this House, and he must protest against the arguments used by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. For his own part he had felt no hardship in taking the oath, and regretted to hear that there was a possibility of the cry of "No Popery" being again raised. He trusted, however, to the liberal feeling of Englishmen, to counteract any insidious attempt of the kind.
 Sir Andrew Agnew  then rose to move, pursuant to notice, for leave to bring in a Bill to promote the better observance of the Lord's day. As the subject was not new to the House, he should not feel it necessary to enter into any detail of the measure he sought to introduce. He regretted that after so many petitions had been presented last year, when the feeling of the country had been so unequivocally expressed, it should have devolved upon so humble an individual as himself to bring forward so important a subject. It world be almost presumption in him to dictate all that was necessary to be introduced in such a legislative provision, and he should submit a Bill containing such regulations as to him appeared desirable to the House, and then call at a subsequent stage upon the united wisdom of the House to devise the best means of successfully carrying into effect an object so much desired by so numerous a body of petitioners as had addressed the House upon the subject. He had thought it his duty so to arrange the clauses of the Bill, that hon. Members could by their votes in Committee upon it exclude such as they might deem fit, without material deterioration to the
 55
 Mr. Henry Lytton Bulwer  thought, that the arguments which the hon. and learned member for Dublin (Mr. O'Connell) had used, had not been fairly treated by the hon. Gentlemen who had spoken on the other side. It was, he might almost say, ridiculous to require persons to swear that, which, on all hands, was confessed to be either untrue or absurd. He should vote to have such oaths done away with.
 Mr. John P. B. Chichester  seconded the Motion, but he would not pledge himself to the support of the Bill, if its provisions were at all similar to those of the Bill introduced by the hon. Baronet last year, though, in promoting a measure for the better observance of the Sabbath, he was acting in accordance with the wishes of all his constituents.
 Sir Richard Vyvyan  expressed his regret, that so many opinions as had been expressed this morning upon so important a subject, should have been allowed to pass without having been replied to. He rose for the purpose of answering an observation of the hon. member for Cheshire (Mr. J. Stanley). That hon. Member had said, that if the members of the Church of England would not give way, and assent to the removal of the grievances under which the Dissenters laboured, then the connexion between Church and State ought to be abolished. He begged leave to say, in reply, that even if the
 8
 Sir Robert Inglis  felt surprised at what had fallen from the hon. and learned member for Dublin, but he was still more surprised at the speech that had been delivered by the hon. and learned Judge who had just sat down. His hon. and learned friend had talked of sweeping away the folly and ignorance of past ages. To
 36 37 animus imponentis O'Connell 38 pro tanto 39 40
 Sir Robert Inglis  could not but think, that though the hon. Baronet, the member for Wigton, had stated that the Bill he now sought to introduce was very much the same as that brought forward last Session; it was not regular for the hon. member for Wigan to prejudice the House against the measure by entering into a discussion of the details of the Bill already disposed of. With regard to the statement urged by the hon. member for Wigan as to Sunday baking, he must remind the hon. Member, that upwards of 7,000 journeymen bakers of the city of London had, by their petition, sought the protection of the House from Sunday trading. That protection they had a right to claim; but, as to the other points embraced by the proposed Bill—namely, the innocent recreations and amusements of the people—he thought, with the hon. and gallant Member opposite (Colonel Wood), that more could be done by example than legislation. If the proposed Bill were, in substance, anything like that introduced last year, it would only give force to enactments now in existence, though practically inoperative; but when he remembered, that the number of petitioners praying for some legislation upon this subject amounted to not less than 277,000, he should give his support to the present Motion.
 Sir Robert Peel:  If I know anything of the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies—if I have formed a correct estimate of his character, and of the motives and feelings by which his public conduct is influenced—I have no hesitation in saying, that had he been aware of the recommendation of the Commissioners respecting the deanery of Down, he would sooner have cut off his right hand than have signed the appointment of the son of the Lord Chancellor of Ireland to that deanery. I believe it to be impossible, that Gentlemen filling high official situations should not occasionally be betrayed into inadvertencies in the filling up of appointments; and the more assiduously they attend to public business, the more likely are they to act inadvertently upon particular occasions in the disposal of their patronage. If Gentlemen were to be arraigned for this as a crime, there would be an end of
 72 73
 Sir Robert Peel  hoped that his right hon. friend would show sufficient confidence in the House, thus far, that if the first Motion to which his notice referred were not carried, there could be no fear for the second.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he concurred with
 28 29 30 31 32 * * 33
 Sir Ronald C. Ferguson  said, that the hon. and learned Member was as ignorant on that point, as he was on all the other matters connected with the question. The Report had been drawn up by a member of the Committee, and was approved by the rest.
 Lord Althorp  did not intend to follow the hon. and learned Gentleman through the arguments which he had advanced, but should content himself with saying a few words in reply to his observations. The first question that presented itself upon this subject was upon a point of form—namely, whether, even supposing the Motion to be a proper one in sub-
 25 26
 Lord Morpeth  hoped the hon. Baronet, the member for Wigton, would, in the event of the House acceding to his Motion, evince more pliability of materials, and a more distinct regard to his prospects of success, than had been exhibited in the Bill brought forward during the last Session of Parliament. He (Lord Morpeth) only acted in accordance with his own feelings, and those of a great body of his constituents, when, by his vote, he afforded the hon. Baronet an opportunity of introducing a Bill which should give to the labourer of this country that relaxation which God and man intended for him. To this point he limited his support of the Motion until he was made fully acquainted with the provisions of the measure.
 Mr. Ruthven  was sorry, that, however Irish Members might disagree on other subjects, they were quite unanimous as to the existence of distress. It was too bad, after Ireland for thirty-three years had been suffering the effects of the Union, to attribute her present state to the bad Acts passed by the Irish Parliament. Ireland was in a state which required a variance from the strict principles of free trade. Her manufactures must be protected, for a time at least, and some measures should be taken to check absenteeism. He denied that any man was unsafe in Ireland, unless he made himself exceedingly obnoxious by his opposition to the interests of the people.
 Lord Granville Somerset , although he agreed with the hon. member for Rochester, that it was not necessary to trouble the House by going through the whole of the evidence given in this case, he could not agree with him, because the House had affirmed that Hertford was in a corrupt state, that, therefore, this Bill ought to be read a second time. The Government had not disfranchised the town of Newry, when cases were proved against it as strong, if not stronger, than any of those insinuated against the borough of Hertford; on the contrary, it had only instituted a prosecution against one individual. Why, therefore, should that be done in the one case which was not done in the other? Was it not injustice and partiality? Indeed, he did not see why the individuals about to be disfranchised should not feel a degree of indignation when they saw one measure of justice doled out to them, and another to others. There was a great distinction between treating and bribery, and he did conceive it too hard, that between two and three hundred individuals should be disfranchised on such evidence as had been laid before the Committee. He, therefore, implored the House to pause and consider well the subject, before it proceeded to act upon the Report of that Committee, and disfranchise the borough of Hertford. Some case had been adduced where a shilling was given in charity, but no case of bribery could be substantiated. He thought it would be most unjust to inflict an  ex post facto 87 88
 Mr. Nicholson Calvert  rose, at the request of the noble Lord (Lord Granville Somerset), to furnish him with the information he was desirous of receiving as to the origin of the practice of issuing tickets to the voters of Hertford. Till the period of his (Mr. N. Calvert's) quitting the representation of the borough, the electors had never made choice of any other than some gentleman resident in the county; and up to that period, it was the practice after the election for the Members to give a dinner in the Town-hall to the higher classes of the electors, and the same to the poorer classes, by opening a certain number of public-houses within the borough. Upon Mr. Spencer Cowper's election, in conjunction with him, in 1802, it was represented by the more respectable class of inhabitants to the new Members, that the practice of opening public-houses was very objectionable,—creating in the town great annoyance to the more quietly-disposed inhabitants, by breaking windows, fights in the streets, &c. In consequence of this representation, it was agreed to by all parties, that in lieu of opening the public-houses, each elector should receive from each candidate whom he voted for, two 5 s. 89
 Sir Robert Peel  could not acquiesce in the Amendment which had just been moved by his noble friend near him. Two reports had been presented upon this borough to the House by a Committee, which he was bound to say had taken a very fair and impartial view of the subject into which it had been appointed to examine. He should therefore testify his respect to that Committee, by giving his support to the second reading of this Bill. He would take, however, that opportunity of saying, that if treating amounted to bribery, or if proof of treating were to be considered as equivalent to proof of corruption, half the boroughs in the country might—nay, must be, disfranchised. He thought that some attempt ought to be made by law to define what treating was. The practice of giving 5 s. s. l. l. 90 l. Henry L. Bulwer: l. l. 91
 Mr. Henry L. Bulwer  admitted, that there were 430 10 l.
 Mr. Halcombe  would detain the House but for a very few moments. With any regard to either principle or consistency, it would be impossible for the House to sanction the Bill now before it. He had the most perfect confidence in the impartiality and integrity of the Committee who made this Report; but if the House were to look to the very first principle which governed the administration of law in this, and every country, they must admit, that the parties whose rights were affected, ought to have an opportunity afforded them of being heard in their own defence. The case with regard to the electors of Hertford stood thus:—The first Committee was an Election Committee, and the sole point it had to determine was the good or bad return of the sitting Members. Before that tribunal the electors had neither opportunity nor power to be heard. The Committee, however, reported that bribery and treating had prevailed in
 92 93
 Mr. Clay  wished to remind the House that the Election Committee thought, that there was sufficient evidence to implicate the electors of Hertford without the examination of the two witnesses whose evidence had been alluded to by the noble Lord. It should also be recollected that, in addition to the ticket money for treating, alluded to by the right hon. Baronet; it had been proved, that two or three times before the election, small sums had been distributed to the electors. The right hon. Baronet expressed some alarm lest, by the House adding a large surrounding constituency to the present electors for Hertford, the balance between the town and country constituency should be affected, and too much weight given to the agricultural interests. He denied that it could be so in the case before the House, as the great portion of the voters that it was proposed to add belonged to surrounding towns which were daily becoming of increased importance. He thought that there was no danger of increasing the influence of the agricultural interest, by the Bill under consideration. He was surprised, therefore, to hear the objections of the right hon. Baronet to the Bill before the House. He (Mr. Clay) recollected, that the right hon. Baronet was one of those who proposed and supported the disfranchisement of the forty-shilling
 94
 Sir Henry Hardinge  protested against the doctrine laid down by the hon. member for the Tower Hamlets, that the House was justified in disfranchising a place on the ground or principle of expediency. A more dangerous doctrine could hardly be maintained. In his opinion, it was their duty to legislate on the matter before the House, not on the particular doctrines laid down by any hon. Member, but on the principles of the law. By the law, treating had never been regarded as bribery. He maintained, that no case of corruption had been established against the voters of the borough of Hertford; but it appeared, that some corruption had prevailed in the surrounding districts. The only case which had been strongly urged against his two noble friends who were returned for Hertford, and, in consequence of which they had lost their seats, was that stated by a man who had subsequently been convicted of perjury in consequence of the evidence he gave before the Election Committee. He could not help alluding to the constitution of the Election Committees. He was a party man, and those who entertained similar principles to himself in that House did not exceed 150 or 160, while the number of those who entertained opposite opinions was nearly 500. In the Ballot for Election Committees the different parties had not the same chances of being placed on an equal footing. He did not mean that the Members of these Committees were ever influenced by party motives; but it was hardly possible, considering the infirmities of human nature, to divest the mind of all bias. He should be extremely glad, therefore, if some
 95
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) had alluded to the small sum given to each voter; but, although only 5 s. 96 97
 Sir James Scarlett  was astonished when he heard the hon. member for Bath say, that political expediency was founded on political rights. He (Sir James Scarlett) was not astonished that the hon. Member was connected with a very small party when he entertained such opinions. Such a principle went to the foundation of every right, and affected every legal privilege. The hon. Member, he had no doubt, confounded things. Political expediency might be acted on in reference to general rights, or as affecting a whole people; but if the principle of political expediency was to be acted upon as regarded the rights of a single individual, or of a few persons, it would be the most consummate tyranny. He really could not see any criminality on the part of those who participated in the festivities that took place in celebration of the triumph of the successful candidates at the election for this borough. If a man were to say, "I can't get a dinner from this candidate, and, therefore, I won't vote for him; but I can get a dinner from the other, and, consequently, I will vote for him," he would, most undoubtedly, be corrupt. But nothing of this kind had occurred, and, therefore, he could not, for his own part, conceive how any man could connect half-a-crown that was given for a dinner on such an occasion with bribery. He was persuaded, that there was not a Member of that House who would grudge such a sum to each of his supporters for the purpose of celebrating his return; and, therefore, some distinction ought to be drawn between a festivity in every way so moderate, and under the circumstances so natural, and actual downright bribery. As, however, they had consented to let the Bill go into Committee, it would only be a waste of time to trouble the House with further observations upon it at the present moment. He must, indeed, be permitted to say, that if this Bill were intended to establish any such principle as that of rendering a person who happened to partake of a dinner that was given after the election had terminated a criminal act, he should feel it his duty to oppose it. A dinner so given before the election commenced might deserve to be called "treating;" but he could not see upon what principle of justice they could punish those who participated in a festivity that took place subsequently to the close of an election.
 Mr. Hardy  said, that it had been solemnly decided by the Judges of the Court of Common Pleas, in a case brought before a Court of Law, that not only was treating between the teste and return of the writ illegal, but that treating at all, whether before or after those two events, was equally a violation of the provisions of the Act of Parliament. He must say, that he heard with surprise, the doctrine which had been laid down by the hon. and learned member for Norwich. That hon. and learned Gentleman said, that a distinction ought to be made between treating and bribery; but he defied the hon. and learned Gentleman to show him a single instance in which such a distinction was adopted by either the Legislature or any high legal authority in the country. It was true that such a distinction had been now and then made by Committees of that House; but no man who read the Statute of William 3rd (improperly, as he thought, called the Treating Act) could, for a moment, contend for such a distinction. The proposition was untenable; and, so far from admitting any distinction of the sort, the words of the Act were conclusive against it. The language of the Act. was, that no voter should receive any reward, benefit, meat or drink, office, employment, or other emolument, to induce him to vote, from the day of the teste to the day of the return of the writ, without being deemed guilty of bribery; and if during the interval, such practices were criminal, they were, according to his view of the matter, just as illegal, whether they occurred prior or subsequent to these events. In the case of the borough of Hertford, the Committee adopted the same view that he took of the law upon this question. They decided that treating, no matter when it occurred, was illegal, and upon that ground they set the election aside. But if it were not illegal, where was the necessity for observing secrecy, or why were men of straw invariably chosen to distribute tickets, and practise all the other acts of corruption, but because it would be useless to sue persons of that description for penalties? The Act of Parliament declared that 300 l. l. l. 99 l.
 Sir James Scarlett , in explanation, said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman was in error, in supposing the election cost 9,000 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Shaw  said, there was a manifest distinction between treating and bribery, and that this was the only instance that could be shown, in which punishment was inflicted upon a borough, merely on account, of treating. This measure could not be justified upon any principle that he knew of; and he entirely concurred in the opinion, that the expedience and right which hon. Members had talked of, were, to use the expression of the hon. and learned member for Bath, nothing more than a jingle of words without meaning.
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  said, that he hoped his hon. friend (Mr. Murray) would give some positive reasons why he introduced this measure, and mention his motives for bringing it forward at the present time. For his own part, he had expected that the bringing forward of the measure would have been delayed until after the general Bill for regulating the marriages of Dissenters in England had been introduced. By waiting until after that time, an opportunity would be afforded of bringing forward the measure with far greater propriety. When they reflected on the
 100 101
 Mr. Murray  said, that the present Bill was founded on the principle of removing penalties respecting the celebration of marriages from Dissenters in general. He assured his hon. friend, that such was the case; and he was glad to perceive that upon that point they both in reality agreed. He begged his hon. friend not to object to the second reading of the Bill, but to allow it to go into Committee. His hon. friend could then make all the objections he thought fit to portions of the measure; and he begged to assure his hon. friend, that whatever objections, alterations, or amendments, he should be pleased to throw out, when the Bill arrived at that stage, they would receive on his (Mr. Murray's) part, the closest and most marked attention. He did not feel himself in any way called upon to delay the introduction of the present Bill until that relative to the marriages of Dissenters in England should be brought in, for marriages in that country, and in Scotland, stood on so different a footing, that in Scotland they could not at all avail themselves of what might be done in this country on the subject. What was the law in Scotland regulating marriages? Why, any two persons—no matter whether they were nailers, tinkers, or others—might say in the presence of a witness of a similar sort, that they were married, and such a marriage would be valid in the face of the law. He was not asking to introduce a Bill in favour of the Roman Catholics exclusively; butt he was asking for something to enable the Roman Catholics to do properly what they could not now do in a country where marriages were contracted so loosely—in a country where persons might write to one another, proposing marriage, and then go to bed; after which, such a mode of matrimony would be considered valid in the eye of the law. He considered that it was the duty of every moral person to remove those practices or laws which in any way tended to lead to difficulties or doubt. But his hon. friend said, that it was not necessary. He begged to call the attention of his hon. friend to what occurred in 1815, at the Judiciary Court of Inverness, respecting a marriage solemnized by a Roman Catholic clergyman. A part of the charge was, that this marriage was,
 102
 Major Cumming Bruce  must vindicate himself from the charges brought by his hon. friend, the member for St. Andrew's, (Mr. Johnston) against the Scotch Members generally, of being absent from their duty when a measure so important as the present was brought forward. He admitted its importance, and being aware of the interest his constituents felt in every Bill touching their Roman Catholic fellow subjects, he begged to inform his hon. friend, that he was now in his place to attend to it. He agreed in the views taken by his hon. friend of this measure. He concurred fully in his willingness to do away with every penal Statute affecting the Roman Catholics; but he thought the Bill should stop there, and not proceed to enactments, which seemed to place the Roman Catholics on a different and more favoured footing than other Dissenters in Scotland. His hon. friend, the member for Leith, (Mr. Murray) seemed to have misunderstood the ground of the objections stated by the member for St. Andrew's, than whom no one was more averse to penal enactments on account of religious opinions. The hon. member for St. Andrew's, had stated his concurrence in that part of the Bill which went to sweep away all penalties; but he objected to the second principle involved in the Bill, which was a principle of preference of the Roman Catholic over other Dissenters from the Established Church. In all this he fully concurred. He thought that any attempt to show such a preference should be resisted by the House, because its tendency would be to awaken that feeling of religious animosity between Protestant and Roman Catholic, which was so wisely deprecated by several hon. Members in the debate of last night, when the hon. and learned member for Dublin submitted to the House his Motion respecting the oaths taken by the Roman
 103
 Mr. Robert Steuart  said, although there might exist a law prohibiting Protestant dissenting clergymen from celebrating marriages similar to that against Catholic clergymen, there was no instance on record of its having been put in force; on the contrary, all Gentlemen connected with Scotland knew that the episcopal and dissenting clergy were daily in the habit of celebrating marriages among their congregations. He begged to disclaim, for those parts of the country with which he was connected, that illiberal feeling which the hon. member for Inverness stated to exist in the north of Scotland against the late
 104
 Mr. Sinclair  cordially supported the Bill. He thought that the Roman Catholics were peculiarly entitled to this relief, because they were differently circumstanced from other Dissenters in Scotland, who, in common with the members of the Established Church, hold, that marriage is a civil contract, whereas, it is, by the members of the Romish communion, deemed a Sacrament, and requires a religious ceremony for its completion. He was as anxious as his hon. friend, the member for St. Andrew's, to impede the progress of popery by all fair means, but wherever he could gratify the feelings, or show respect to the scruples of his Roman Catholic brethren, without any derogation to Protestant principles, he should deem it a privilege to act towards them in the spirit of courtesy and kindness.
 Mr. Hodgson  rose to move the instruction to the Committee of which he had given notice. The first object which he had in view was to inflict punishment not merely on those who had been guilty of receiving bribes, but on those who, in his opinion, and he was sure in the opinion of the House, were still more deserting of punishment—namely, those who had been guilty of giving bribes. His second object was to limit the punishment to those free-
 105 106 l.
 Mr. O'Connell  presented Petitions from the parish of St. Mary's, New Ross; from the parish of Longwood, county Meath; the parish of Tullalish, county Down; the parish of Ballyhogue, county Wexford;—for the Repeal of the Union. With regard to those petitions, he (Mr. O'Connell) would just mention to the House the circumstance of the women of these different places making an application to affix their signatures to the petitions. He mentioned this, to show the intense anxiety that predominated in the breast of the Irish people for the Repeal of the Union—an anxiety which would prevail until the object of it be attained.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the gentleman who had written the letter quoted by the hon. member for Stroud, was worthy of every credit. He had not at all exaggerated the deplorable condition of many in the city of Dublin. Another officer of the Board of Health (Surgeon White) had published a pamphlet, detailing what he had seen, from which it appeared, that in one parish, containing 8,000 inhabitants, there was only one blanket between every thirty-five persons. Such a state of destitution, was frightful, and that man, who did not feel for it, could not have a human heart beat in his breast. The only question was, the mode of relieving it. Formerly, there was a million of Irish money spent in Dublin, which was not the case now. One hundred noblemen had their residences there, as also two hundred country gentlemen. If they were still there, Dr. Locke would not have to write letters complaining of the state of the people, to gentlemen in England. There was not a city in the world of its size where so much charity existed. The hospitals and other benevolent establishments were most numerous, and were all of them supported without the aid of Government. He thought, that the only effective method that could be devised for the relief of the distressed people of Dublin, would be to allow the Irish to manage their own affairs; to oblige those who had money to spend it at home; and to give some compulsory power, such as formerly existed in this country, by which absentees could not only be called home, but that persons having estates in Ireland, should not be allowed to have them elsewhere. The hon. Gentleman who last addressed the House, thought a Poor-law the remedy for the distress to which he had alluded, but, in his opinion, a Poor-law would be an addition to the already existing grievances. He could never assent to the assertion, that, one man had a right to be relieved by the property of another being forcibly taken from him, and that was involved in the principle of Poor-laws. He did not say one word with respect to the moral obligation—his objection lay to the legal part of the question. There was no doubt that distress existed in Ireland, the difficulty was to find a remedy. The solution of that doubt would, he was sure, enlist all the feelings of that House.
 Mr. Ewart Gladstone  thought the Bill proposed was one of great hardship, and especially when brought forward at such a distance of time since the transactions from which it had arisen. He should support the instructions moved by the hon. member for Newcastle, as the most judicious alternative between the extreme points of opinion which at present prevailed.
 Mr. Hodgson  did not think the noble Lord's instruction was exactly like that which he had moved, and he could not support it. He could not consent to a proposal which would augment the punishment of the innocent.
 Mr. Ewart Gladstone  agreed with the noble Lord, that there should not be one law for the rich and another for the poor, and yet some hard cases would occur under the instruction moved by the noble Lord. There was one fact stated, amid the corruption of the Liverpool election, in the conduct of Mr. Yates, which, in a great measure, redeemed the open bribery. That gentleman thought it his duty, in the face of the people and the candidates, to state that, where such open and unblushing corruption was practised, he should not vote on either side. It would be hard on him, and others similarly circumstanced, to be excluded from the franchise. The instruction of the noble Lord would not deal equally with the poor and with the rich. It dealt more severely with the latter, as it precluded the right of franchise which they might otherwise hereafter acquire—an acquisition which, it was well known, the poor man could not contemplate; and thus the penal portion of the instruction would, in one way, be incapable of affecting him.
 Mr. Bulwer : The noble Lord said that the interpretation should not be put upon his words which the hon. member, for Ipswich put on them; he hoped that would be satisfactory.
 Lord George Bentinck's  Motion was negatived, and the House went into Committee. The clauses of the Bill were read and agreed to, and the House resumed.
 Lord George Bentinck : On former occasions I have objected to the second readings of this Bill, on the ground that its principle is to make one law for the rich and another for the poor. The Amendment, on the contrary, which I shall have the honour to submit to the House, will operate to the disfranchisement of guilty rich men, equally with the disfranchise-
 109 nominally nominally practically l. practically l. 110 l. l. l. l very respectable gentleman l. l. l. middling class got the best because they kept off 111 very respectable gentleman l l. l. l. 112 l. terribly distressed in mind l. l. l. He was only one of a hundred 113 l. 114 said freemen said said corrupt freemen said corrupt freemen ought not shall be said ought not 115
 Mr. Aglionby  was of opinion, that although the Special Committee had been justified in finding that bribery and corruption had not prevailed in the borough of Liverpool to so great an extent since the passing of the Reform Bill, still no doubt could exist as to its having formerly
 108
 Mr. Aglionby  asked whether the House could retrace its steps in the appointment of the Committee, if it should be found that that appointment had taken place under a misconception as to the presentation of a petition, which petition, in fact, had no existence?
 Mr. Lambert  said, that there was no doubt that distress, to a melancholy extent, existed in Ireland, but he did not see how that distress would be relieved by the Repeal of the Union. Distress had existed previous to the Union, and it was matter of history, that measures of the greatest injustice to the poor had been passed by the Irish Parliament. He admitted, that absenteeism was an evil; but did it decrease the evil of absenteeism, by rendering the country uninhabitable, and driving out of it every man who did not belong to a particular faction? He knew that many gentlemen had been driven out of the country by the state of things which existed there—three were gentlemen who gave large employment to the people. Employment was all that was wanted to relieve the distress of the people; and he thought it would tend to more good, to direct the public attention to the demanding measures of practical relief, than to delude them into the pursuit of those which were impracticable. Governed as Ireland had been for centuries, she had at last a right to expect justice, and that justice would be most effectually rendered by taking measures for the relief of the people, by giving them employment and support.
 Mr. Tancred  in moving "that Counsel or Agents be admitted to be heard before the Committee on the Leamington petition in support of the petition presented by certain inhabitants of Leamington Spa, on the 11th instant," wished briefly to state the circumstances out of which the motion arose. A petition had been presented some time ago from a numerous body of persons, representing themselves as inhabitant rate-payers of Leamington Spa, in favour of having the elective franchise of Warwick extended to that town. Many of the signatures to that petition had been impugned as forgeries. Some of the parties who had signed that petition had presented another yesterday, alleging that the former was genuine, and offering to prove that fact. What he had now to move was, that these parties be heard by their counsel or agents before that Committee in support of their petition.
 Mr. Tancred  said, that the object of the petitioners was to have an opportunity of proving that the whole of the signatures to the first petition were genuine.
 Mr. Tancred  repeated his former remark, adding that justice to the parties who signed the former, as well as the present petition, would not be done, unless they were allowed to prove that the allegations against them were unfounded.
 Mr. Tancred  said, that the petitioners whose petition had been presented on the 11th offered, if allowed, to prove that the whole of the signatures to the former petition were genuine.
 Mr. Abercromby  said, that his attention had been called to this subject in an unexpected manner. He had found by the votes that his name, in his absence, had been placed on the Committee to inquire respecting the first petition from Leamington, in which it was alleged that a fraud had been practised on the House. He attended the Committee, and inquired for the parties who made the charge, and who were to adduce the evidence in its support. He was answered by the Chairman of the Committee (Mr. Halcombe) that he it was who made the charge, and he would call evidence to prove it. He had understood, that the charge had rested on something to be brought forward by some parties who had petitioned to be allowed to prove the alleged fraud; but he found that that was not the case, and that the hon. member for Dover was the only party appearing to conduct the prosecution of the affair. Now, as to the Motion for the appointment of counsel to be heard on the part of the petitioners, and who would probably claim to be heard on matters not
 120
 Mr. Abercromby  remarked, that another difficulty in the case arose from the fact that the claim of the petitioners now before the House did not rest on any petition which impugned their former petition, but on the speech of a Member of that House in his place. How the House could proceed in a matter which was in effect a claim to be heard in reply to a speech within its own walls he would not decide; but it certainly placed the Com-
 121
 Mr. Benett  suggested, that if the noble Lord wished to punish John Atkinson, it would be competent for him to bring in a Bill for that purpose. He hoped, however, that if the noble Lord did take this step, he would not stop at Mr. John Atkinson, but go higher, and not stop till he found out where the money came from. This measure would take the poor freemen out of the way of temptation.
 Mr. Benett  observed, that there was this material difference between the provision contained in Lord John Russell's Bill, and that which the hon. Member now proposed—that the former would have only a prospective operation, while the hon. Member's proposition was open to all the objections to which an  ex post facto
 Dr. Nicholl  regretted, that he should differ on the present occasion from the noble Lord, but thinking as he did that the Bill was of undue severity, he should adopt the instruction proposed, as being of a mitigating character, in preference to the whole Bill as it at present stood.
 Mr. John O'Connell  expressed his conviction that to press the clause would endanger the Bill.
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  said, he had received a letter from Ireland, detailing scenes of misery which were sufficient to account for the feeling which the people had in favour of a Repeal of the Union, since that, they were told, would give them relief. The letter was from Dr. Locke, an officer of the Board of Health in Dublin. He stated, among other scenes he had recently witnessed, that in one house he found, in a garret, seven old and helpless females, without fire, food, or raiment, with the exception of a few rags, which they wore both night and day, which were wet, and remained so from the want of fire to dry them by. Dr. Locke added, that he had seen pigs in a sty better lodged. In an opposite room, he found nine human beings, younger than the first, with the same kind of covering. One of the women had a child hanging at her breast, crying for the nourishment she could not give, because she herself had been without food. But, he had seen still deeper misery than this; for he had seen, men, women, boys, and girls, lying down and rising together in one common room. Children of both sexes, from six to twelve years of age, were familiar with vice of every description, having no employment, and no one to take care of their morals. In one house in Felix-street, near Smithfield, he found nineteen females in one room, who formerly were employed as glovers; but who now, when they rose in the morning, had not one penny between them to buy food. Such being the state of things described by Dr. Locke, was it to be wondered, that the people called out for anything which they were told would give them relief? Could they be living in a Christian and civilized country, and
 82
 Mr. Wason  maintained, that there was no evidence before the House to show these 850 persons had not been bribed.
 Mr. Wason : If the noble Lord said he did not mean to insult him, then he would tender an apology.
 Mr. Wason .—I think I now understand the position in which I am placed, which I did not before, for I did not hear the denial of the noble Lord. If the noble Lord will rise in his place and say, as a gentleman, in the face of this House, that he did not mean to convey ally such insinuation as I had inferred from his language, I shall readily apologize for anything I have said.
 Mr. Wason  would ask the noble Lord either to point out that page of the Report which bore out his statements, or he would tell him, that his insinuation was what no honourable man would have given utterance to.
 Mr. Wason : I throw myself on the House. The noble Lord insinuated, that I was not as worthy of belief as the noble Lord. That insinuation, Sir, in deference to you as Chairman, though I may differ with you individually, in this House I treat lightly, but out of this House the noble Lord knows how I would treat it.
 Mr. Wason .—Sir, I did not say that objected to you personally, but not to the Chair. I never made that statement, and I am sure, Sir, that you must have attributed such a statement to me unwillingly.
 Mr. Wason .—That was not the point which I—[" Order, order Chair, chair.
 Mr. Wason  said, so careful was he not to insinuate anything against the Mayor and Corporation of Liverpool on the occasion referred to, that he actually read his statements from the printed evidence, and had tired the House with the documents. But the noble Lord had not yet given the explanation which he ought. Let him give
 118
 Mr. Spring Rice  thought the suggestion was one which the House ought to adopt, for if it should appear that the ground-work of the appointment of the Committee had failed, they might then consider the propriety of rescinding the original Motion.
 The Speaker  hoped that hon. Members would not retire under the notion, that he had stated that this Committee had been appointed under the misrepresentation that a petition on the subject had been presented; for undoubtedly the House had a right to appoint the Committee even though no petition complaining of a breach of privilege had been presented. He had felt it his duty to put the House in possession of the fact, that when the hon. Member complained in his place of a breach of privilege, the question was asked whether that complaint rested on any petition presented to the House stating the fact, and the answer of the hon. member for Dover, was in the affirmative. It appeared, however, on inquiry, that in that answer the hon. member for Dover was mistaken.
 The Speaker  here suggested, that probably the better course would be, to adjourn the debate on this Motion until the meeting of this House the next day, when they might have an opportunity of reconsidering the original proposition.
 The Speaker  would remind the House of the circumstances under which the Committee had been appointed. When the hon. member for Dover first mentioned the subject as a breach of privilege, he applied to him (the Speaker) to know whether it were not a case which ought to take precedence of all other business. He informed the hon. Member that it was one of those cases into which the House would inquire if brought before it; but the question was put, whether or not there had been any petition presented complaining of this alleged breach of privilege, and the answer of the hon. member for Dover was in the affirmative. It was then, of course, the impression of the House that such a petition was before it, but on further inquiry it turned out that no such petition had been presented. This fact of course created a great difficulty as regarded the course which should be taken in the proposed inquiry. As to the appointment of counsel, the right hon. Gentleman repeated the difficulty which would occur in admitting them to act for parties as  amici curiœ.
 The Speaker  said, that that would no doubt relieve the House from some part of the difficulty, but not from the whole. Every turn which the case took presented a new and singular feature. Supposing that these petitioners could give the evidence they stated, still it was doubtful whether they could be allowed to be heard before the Committee, merely as  amici curiœ
 The Speaker  remarked, that the whole case was one of the most extraordinary which had come before Parliament within his recollection. When the former petition was presented, it was stated by the hon. and learned member for Dover (Mr. Halcombe) that the petition was a fraud upon the House, that it contained the names of parties alleged to be residents in Leamington, who had no existence there, and that the names of others who were resident had been put to it without their knowledge or consent. A Committee had subsequently been appointed to inquire respecting that petition; but it seemed to him that great difficulty would be to be encountered in going into the case of every party who signed the petition.
 The Speaker .—That is not the question.
 117 No, no," and cries of Order," while Mr. Wason made a movement as if intending to rise.
 The Speaker .—The hon. Member must go further. He must explain to the House what he did say, and what he meant by the ambiguous threat he threw out.
 The Speaker : The hon. Member speaks Parliamentarily, when he says, that the deference he pays is not to me but to the Chair. The interference I venture on on this occasion is a part of my duty as speaking in the name of the House. I now call on the hon. Member to explain language which is certainly most unparliamentary, and to say what he meant by the ambiguous sort of threat he threw out, which the hon. Member knows is never suffered in this House to pass without notice.
 The Speaker : I am quite sure, that the hon. Member did not mean to express what his language would imply, and he must explain to the House what he meant by the employment of those phrases.
 The Speaker  expressed a doubt as to how far the petitioners could, according to the forms of the House, be allowed to appear by counsel or agents before the Committee in any other character than that of merely advocating their own interests.
 The Speaker , in putting the Motion, put it in the usual form—"that the parties be heard by their counsel or agents so far as their interests were concerned."
 Sir Henry Willoughby  supported the instruction. He thought that the Reform Bill should be looked upon as an amnesty, and that corruption that had occurred previous to its passing should not be made the ground of a legislative measure now,
 107
 Lord Sandon  said, as he was appealed to, he would repeat what he had said. He said that he would leave it to the House, from experience, to judge which was, he or the hon. Member, the more likely to be cautious in his assertions. He was alluding to a former assertion of the hon. Member respecting the Mayor and Town Clerk of Liverpool, and when he (Lord Sandon) denied the correctness of those remarks, and the hon. Member maintained them, he (Lord Sandon) said, that the assertions were not so cautious as to induce the house to believe the hon. Member before him (Lord Sandon). He meant to cast no imputation on the hon. Member's honour.
 Lord Sandon  said, that as this was a question of fact, he would leave it to the House to decide, from experience, which of the two, the hon. Member or himself,
 116
 Lord Sandon  was understood to say, that no proof of bribery against 850 of the freemen had been substantiated, and yet the House cheered at the prospect of punishing these innocent men.
 Lord Sandon  could neither give his assent to the Bill, nor to the instruction which had been moved by the hon. member for Newcastle. The elective franchise was as dear to the poor man as it was to the more wealthy of his fellow-subjects. He stood upon the broad ground of the injustice of the proceeding altogether, and especially after such a purification of the borough as had been brought about by the Reform Act.
 Colonel Evans  did not think the explanation of the noble Lord very satisfactory; but he was bound to thank the noble Lord for not having taken up his time, by putting him upon the Committee. He should not be the less acceptable to his constituents, and especially to the popular party, for not having been appointed by the Government upon a single Committee. There was a Committee last year upon East-Indian affairs, and he was excluded from it, although, there was but one other military man who knew as much of India as he (Colonel Evans) knew. Again, there was a Committee upon the military establishments, and from that also, the Ministers did him the honour to exclude him, though that could not be on account of his want of experience. He had, therefore, to thank the noble Lord for giving him that opportunity of showing that there could be but little reason for the supposition, which he had understood was beginning to prevail, that he was about to ally himself to the Government. But, still he thought that it was, to say the least of it, indiscreet to exclude the metropolitan Members from an inquiry in which the metropolis was so much concerned. However, for his own part, he could only thank the noble Lord for having spared him a duty, to which, if it had devolved upon him, he would have given his best attention. He entirely concurred in what had been said by the hon. member for the Tower Hamlets, and he knew, that throughout the whole of
 128
 Mr. Cayley  said, that 60,000 l.
 Mr. Rippou  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill for relieving the Archbishops and Bishops of the Established Church from their Legislative and Judicial Duties in the House of Peers. The hon. Member spoke to the following effect:—I am aware than an anneal to the indulgent consideration of this House may be deemed the customary preface of every unpractised Member; but I can truly aver, that looking to the importance of the subject I am about to bring under its notice, and knowing the feebleness of my ability to do justice to its merits, I am Only sustained in my undertaking by a reliance on that generous and impartial feeling, which will not underestimate the worthiness of a measure by reason or the inefficient arguments of its humble proposer. I am not incited by desire of popularity, or love of novelty. I offer this proposition with a sincere and long-formed conviction of its necessity and its justice. I wish to irritate no private feelings. I desire to enlist no party passion. I will endeavour to state my opinions calmly, fairly, and briefly. It is unnecessary at this day to cite authorities showing the propriety of Church Reform, but I cannot for bar calling the attention of the House to the opinions of one for whose Conservative wisdom they will entertain sincere respect—I mean Lord Bacon—who, then addressing his Royal Master on the "better pacification and edification or the Church of England," thus expresses himself;—"I would only ask why the civil state should be purged and restored by good and wholesome laws, made every third or fourth year, in Parliament assembled, devising remedies as fast as time breedeth mischief, and contrariwise, the ecclesiastical state should still continue upon the dregs of time, and receive no alteration now for these forty five years and more?" Two hundred years, Sir, have since passed away, and the Establishment continues "upon the dregs of time;" a revolt has now taken place in the minds of men; the intelligent community loudly demand a reform in the Church Establishment, and it is the duty of this House to examine into that institution. and make it satisfactory to the views of the people. I maintain, Sir, that it is the first duty of Civil Government to afford satisfaction to those by whose voluntary obedience it is instituted and maintained, and never forget the immense importance of timely concession. Observe the signs of growing discontent; reform your system
 132 133 veto 134 135 136 137
 Mr. Tennyson  agreed with the hon. Member that this was a question of infinite importance to this country—a question involving no ordinary results, and which, therefore, ought not to be disposed of in the summary manner which the noble Lord recommended. He agreed with his hon. friend who had just sat down, that this mode of settling the question would create
 143 No, no. 144
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that in considering this question, he considered it as a question affecting the political influence, and not the religions functions, of the Bishops. In his opinion, there was nothing of religion involved in the Motion then before the House. If it were a question whether the continuance of Bishops was or was not an advantage to that form of religion which they professed, he should not interfere in it; but he now interfered in it because he considered it a question as to whether the Bishops injured or served the body politic of the State. If it could be shown to him that the seats which the Bishops occupied in the other House of Parliament had ever been made instrumental to the advancement of our rights, to the amelioration of our institutions, to the reduction of our burthens, and to the extension of the prosperity and liberty of the people, he would readily vote for the continuance of the enjoyment of them by the Bishops, but on looking back upon the events recorded in our history during the last 130 years, he could not find a single occasion on which the Bishops had taken a part favourable to liberty, or to the amelioration of the prospects of the country, or to the emancipation of the Catholics and other Dissenters. They made a negative quantity in legislation—they were always found at the wrong side, and never on the right, and, therefore, he should support the present Motion.
 Mr. Alderman Wood , in introducing his Motion for leave to bring in "a Bill to regulate the plying, driving, standing, places of arrival, and departure of stage-coaches, omnibuses, cabriolets, and other hackney carriages, and also the passing and repassing of other carriages used for the conveyance of goods, within the city of London, and within twelve miles of the General Post-
 154
 Mr. O'Connell  was decidedly of opinion,
 155
 Mr. Littleton  said, that the House was, of course, aware, that he had given notice of a Motion with a view to abolish the practice in Ireland, and it would seem very strange to pass two Bills, one for each country, on the same subject. He thought one Bill might comprise both objects, and he had no objection to postpone his Motion in order to allow the hon. member for Liverpool to bring in a general measure upon the subject.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the right hon. Gentleman was mistaken in the object of the Motion of which he had given notice, for, instead of being to take away the power of hanging in chains from the Judges, it was expressly to give them that power—[" No, no from Mr. Littleton
 Mr. Shaw  said, the Act of 10th George 4th, not only gave the power to the Judges, but imposed upon them the necessity of directing that all criminals convicted of murder should either be dissected or hung
 156 O'Connell: 157
 Mr. Littleton  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, was most likely to be correct with reference to the point to which he had just alluded, and, therefore, he (Mr. Littleton) would not argue it. All which would be requisite for the hon. member for Liverpool to do, would be to enact that, both in England and in Ireland the power of directing the body of a criminal to be hung in chains should be taken from the Judges; but a further enactment would be necessary for Ireland, empowering the Judges to order murderers to be buried within the gaol yard.
 Dr. Lushington  said, that all the hon. member for Liverpool had to do, was to enact, that throughout England, Ireland, and Scotland, in all cases whatsoever where the Judges had the power to order the body of a criminal either to be anatomized, or to be hung in chains, that power should be taken away, and, instead thereof, the Judges should order the body to be buried privately in the gaol or elsewhere. A more simple Act it was impossible to devise. He was happy to say, that it was one on which the whole of that House appeared to be unanimous; and their opinion, he was fully convinced, was in perfect conformity with the feelings of the people of England, Scotland, and Ireland, which was only another proof of the increased intelligence and civilization of this nation.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that in his opinion the Government had adopted an unjustifiable course of conduct in this instance. He was ready to admit, that this was not the first case where the Government had interfered in favour of the masters. When did they ever interfere in favour of the men? A bad precedent would not justify such conduct. Admitting, for the sake of argument, that the men had been guilty of illegal conduct, the Government should not have interfered in this manner. The province of the Executive was to carry the law into force, and supposing that the men had been guilty of illegal conduct, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and the Law Officers of the Crown, were responsible for having them prosecuted. But there was no prosecution; so that if the acts done were illegal, the Government had neglected its duty. The interference of the Government in this case was a commercial interference. The Executive had no right to take part in such a dispute. But he denied that anything illegal had been done by the men in this case. One of their objects was to prevent the masters
 167 James Graham: s. l. s. d. 168
 Mr. Littleton  begged to say, in reply to the call made upon him by the hon. member for Drogheda, that he had already twice or three times over, in reply to the hon. Gentleman himself, explained the transaction. He now begged leave to repeat a communication which had been addressed to him by a person in Ireland, whose name he did not feel himself called upon to disclose, directing his attention to the clause of the Act of Parliament which applied to the case. It was not in his department to deal with this information; and he, as was customary in official matters, desired his private secretary to transmit this letter, addressed to him, to the department to which it referred. He had reason to believe, however, that before he had sent the communication made to him, the Stamp-office department had determined to adopt the course which they ultimately did. He had no objection to the production of the bill of costs, but then he hoped that the House would be put in possession of the particular expenses incurred in the several stages of the prosecution. The ordinary expenses of the prosecution would be undoubtedly light, and the additional expenses arose from the delays, vexatious he would not say, and the opposition caused. As to the number of counsel employed, he would say, that as many had been employed in criminal prosecutions in England—Sir James Scarlett employed as many. It was usual, in Ireland, to employ the Serjeants and the senior King's Counsel in such prosecutions, and, in case any accident might occur to prevent their attendance, to give retaining fees to counsel to fill their places. Now it so happened, that the Solicitor General, Serjeant Pennefather, and Serjeant Perrin, were absent from Dublin, and the Attorney General directed that Mr. Holmes, the Gentleman to whom the hon. Member alluded, should be employed in their absence. That was the cause why so many lawyers were employed; eight, or even seven, were, perhaps too many, but he had stated the reason for employing eight. He would tell the House, that the Attorney General, though a member of the Privy Council, was not consulted about those prosecutions. He had neither
 181
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  seconded the Motion. He did so chiefly on account of the great and useless expense the Committee would occasion should it be continued. He must remark, that the Leamington petitioners appeared to be very unfortunate. The noble Lord, the member for Reigate, had presented a petition the other evening purporting to come from above 500 of the
 182 l. l.
 Mr. Halcombe  felt confident, he could satisfy the House, that there were no grounds for the Motion of the hon. member for Banbury. A petition had been presented to the House, signed by 757 out of 850, time total number of the 10 l. l. l. 183 184 Hansard's Debates:
 Sir George Hill  said, that as he had presented the petition in question, the House would naturally expect some explanation from him. All he could say was, that the petition was enclosed to him by Mr. Digby, a Magistrate of the neighbourhod, who apprised him that it was most respectably signed. Mr. Digby and Mr. Waddy were both most respectable gentlemen; and it surprised him that the latter did not at once require from the former some explanation of the matter. It puzzled him altogether, and he knew not what to make of the business. He should not, of course, oppose any investigation.
 Mr. Halcombe:  A petition has no date.
 Mr. Halcombe  would answer the hon. Member presently. The hon. Member's present Motion could have no other object than to stifle inquiry. The whole of the seventeen persons whose names had been falsely affixed to the spurious petition would have signed the petition which he held in his hand, had it not been for a notion which prevailed that if they did so they would be precluded from giving evidence before the Committee, and, therefore, in order to be on sure ground, he recommended that no more than two persons should sign it. He had put his name down to present the petition two days ago, but on reflection he thought it better to leave the case as it stood. When he first stirred in the matter, he stated that he acted on his own responsibility, and by that declaration he was prepared to abide. He had undoubtedly made a misrepresentation, but the hon. member for Banbury was good enough to do him the justice to say he was convinced the misrepresentation must have been unintentional. He had made this statement upon the authority, or rather he should say upon the supposed authority, of the noble Lord on his right, who presented the petition. When he moved for the Committee, it was opposed by the noble Lord, the Paymaster of the Forces. He was annoyed at the moment, that the measure before the House should be thus hindered from going on, and the noble Lord said there was no petition. He asserted that there was a petition. He believed so at the time; he had received a communication from the parties, who stated, that their desire was, to address the House, and he afterwards received a letter adding, that the petition was to be intrusted either to him or to the noble Lord, and this without delay. Several days elapsed; he looked to the precedent he had already quoted; and he thought it better to state what he
 186
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  observed, that a regular hoax had been practised on the hon. member for Dover. Seventeen men with similar names to those inscribed on the petition had very truly sworn that they had not authorised the signatures, or themselves affixed them; but the fact was, the seventeen men who had actually signed were ready to come forward and swear that they had done so.
 Lord Granville Somerset : As a member of that Committee which the hon. and learned member for Banbury had designated as one from which justice could not be obtained, he now called upon him to consider the nature of the imputation he had cast upon the Committee, and he asked him to come forward and declare what act of the Committee, or of any member of it, had given fair ground for such an imputation. The only mistake made by the Committee arose from a mis-statement of the hon. and learned Gentleman himself. That hon. and learned Gentleman assured the Committee, that the House had come to a vote to which it had not come; and in consequence the Committee was thrown into difficulty as to obeying the orders of the House, and at the same time conducting the inquiry with justice and impartiality. He did not accuse the hon. and learned Gentleman of wilful mis-statement; but when he was so prompt and eager to make charges against others, it was well for him to be reminded, that even so learned a Member as himself was sometimes liable to act incorrectly. He trusted that the hon. and learned Gentleman would now see reason to withdraw the
 188
 Lord John Russell  wished, that the House could have the advantage of hearing from the Chair what the usual practice in such cases had been.
 Lord John Russell  observed, that when a statement was made, not in the form of a petition, but in that of a statement through
 190
 Major Beauclerk  said, the petitioners did not complain of the efficiency of the police force; they objected to the expense, and they called upon Government to look into this expense. He thought that this was a most reasonable request. They said too, that it ought not to be under the control of the Home-Office, and in that he fully concurred. He contended that it was a most dangerous principle to allow the force to be under the control of the Home Department. He admitted, that, under the right hon. Gentleman's administration, or even under the present Government, it might not be dangerous to allow such a force to be under the control of the Home-Office, but the time might come when it would be most dangerous to allow the Home-Office to have any such powerful control whatever over the metropolitan police. He believed, that a Central Board chosen from all the parishes would be the better course to adopt,
 130
 Mr. Hawes  said, that the Committee of last year were unanimous in their approval of the manner in which the metropolitan police was regulated, not only in the economical management of the funds appropriated to that service, but also of the excellent system of discipline under which the men were governed. The only improvement which the Committee thought might be effected, was that of giving the sole control of the force to the Commissioners, and taking it from under the control of the Home-Office.
 Mr. Harvey  said: It is often repeated of this House, that every order of the community is fairly represented, and that there is no feeling or wish which can be entertained by any rational class of the country which may not find expression, and even advocates in this House; and, owing as I do, my seat in this House mainly to the kind and disinterested exertions of a large portion of persons known as Protestant Dissenters, and never shrinking from the unprofitable avowal of my participation in their sentiments, I should feel, that upon tins trying occasion, so deeply affecting their interests, I was deserting their cause, and disappointing their just expectations, if I were to permit this Motion to be smothered in the manner it is attempted to be. It is true, it is not my intention to
 148 149 150
 Mr. Baines  remembered on a very recent occasion that an application had been made to Government to interfere On behalf of the masters against a most formidable trades' union. To that application the Government had in his judgment given a most judicious answer—namely, that the law gave the applicants sufficient power, that the Government would therefore not interfere, and the matter must be settled by the parties themselves. Such was the reply which had been given to the application of the master cloth-workers in Yorkshire some time since; that reply was most sensible and judicious, and had been hailed as such by all parties. The Government had in that instance done well to abstain from interfering, and especially in avoiding to join with trio strong party against the weak. He was at a loss to conceive any reason why the coopers of London should have been interfered with any more than time cloth-workers of Yorkshire. Though it had been urged that the combination complained of would have had the effect of stopping the course of commerce, and that the ships for the Russian and other trades could not have gone to sea, yet he most unhesitatingly said, that the Government, by the course which had been taken, had placed themselves in a most awkward and disad-
 172
 Mr. Dawson  said, that having been the person who brought the matter forward, he should not shrink from prosecuting the inquiry, and would therefore move for a Committee to inquire into the facts of the case.
 Mr. Dawson  read a letter which he had received from the Rev. Mr. Waddy, of Kilrea, who stated, that having seen in the newspapers a report, setting forth the presentation by Sir George Hill of a petition from that parish against the Catholic claims, to which his name was said to be subscribed, he felt it his duty to notify, that the signature of his name must be a forgery, as he never signed, or authorised the signing of, his name to such a petition. It was singular enough, too, that this very petition dwelt with particular force upon the gross artifices which were imputed to the Catholics to create perjury and immorality. He meant not to proceed further than to expose the grossness of this forgery.
 Mr. Grote  said, great inconvenience was now sustained in the city of London by the stoppages caused by omnibuses. It was so bad at times, that it was almost impossible to cross the streets. He hoped the Bill would be allowed to be brought in, for certainly a more strict police regulation with regard to those vehicles was requisite.
 Mr. George Frederick Young  said, that in such an important matter, he should not, however he aught expose himself to obloquy and popular odium, be deterred from expressing his sentiments. There were certain points laid down by the hon. and learned member for Dublin, which he (Mr. Young), not looking at them as a lawyer, but as a man of plain common-sense, considered open to refutation. It was quite true, that the acts of those men had been so admirably conducted as to be kept within the present law, but the consequences of those acts would be so injurious to the commerce of the country that it was the imperative duty of the Government not to interfere between the masters and the men, but to take measures to prevent the trade and commerce of the country from being suspended or greatly injured. A species of moral intimidation had been resorted to in this case for which the law did not provide a remedy, and for which, therefore, extralegal remedies were required. The hon. and learned Gentleman had said, that every man had a right to dispose of his labour as he thought fit. Nobody disputed that principle, but that very principle was outraged by such a combination as this, which, with the most wanton tyranny, interfered with individual labour, and prevented each individual from using his labour as he wished. No one, surely, would defend the wanton and despotic tyranny exercised by these bodies. He must altogether deny the allegation of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, that the masters were in a perpetual combination. He could state, upon the best information, that there was no combination at all amongst the master coopers, and that there had been no Association of the Masters since 1825 up to the present strike. The hon. member for Middlesex had said, that there had been no disputes between the coopers since the repeal of the Combination-laws. The reason was this—that the masters were placed in such extreme dependence on the men, they dared not encounter them until the circumstances occurred that had given rise to the present dispute. He held in his hand an account of the wages which had been actually received by the coopers in one of the establishments in this metropolis. The account was for the last year, and the average for each individual was 2 l. s. 170 d. s. l. s. d. l.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  was of opinion, that the police corps and the Commissioners should be under the control of the Government; but, at the same time, he thought that the selection of men, and all matters of discipline and internal management, should be under the control of the Commissioners, and not be interfered with by the Government. Indeed, that was what he understood was to be the case when the force was established. In cases of meetings of Trades' Unions and other bodies, from which riots might be apprehended, it was necessary that the Government should have some control over the force, otherwise it would place too high a responsibility on the Commissioners.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that having assisted with his colleagues at the Board of Admiralty in making a minute inquiry into the facts of this case, he entirely agreed in the determination at which they had arrived. He was fully ready to admit, that it required a strong case, and very peculiar circumstances, to justify the Administration of the country in interfering in so delicate a matter as a contest between masters and men; but in the present case the state of our foreign trade, and the state of the merchant shipping, made it an imperative duty on the part of the Board of Admiralty to render that assistance which was required to prevent any injury being inflicted on the trade. It appeared to him, on a careful consideration of all the facts, that a stronger case of what was called combination, though steering within the limits of the law, could not be made out. The hon. and learned member for Dublin had asked, "Why did not the master coopers seek for other workmen throughout the country?" They did do so; and what was the consequence? Why, that in a few days, such was the complete system of espionage on foot, the employment of the new men was discovered by the combination, and they were obliged to join the opponents of the masters. It was said, that the Board of Admiralty had decided on an  ex-parte 169
 Mr. Tancred  rose to move for the discharge of the order appointing a Committee to investigate an imputed breach of privilege in the affixing of false signatures to a petition from Leamington Spa, praying for the extension of the elective franchise to that town. He did so on the ground that there had been no petition complaining of injury presented. When the Motion was made by the hon. and learned member for Dover for the Committee, the noble Paymaster of the Forces had objected to it, on the ground, that there was no petition of complaint before the House; upon which the hon. and learned Member had said there was, and the opposition of the noble Lord was at once withdrawn, and the Committee agreed to. Now, upon examination, it appeared that there was no petition as stated by the hon. and learned Member. Of course the hon. and learned Member had been mistaken, and had conceived a petition presented by a noble Lord (Eastnor) to be one of complaint; whereas its only prayer was, that the franchise should not be extended to Leamington. Such being the case, he trusted that his Motion would not be opposed; and if it were, he should feel himself bound to persevere in the Motion which he had submitted yesterday, and which was, that the petitioners signing the petition complained of, and who had petitioned to be heard before the Committee by their agents or Counsel, might be so heard. He moved to discharge the order for appointing a Committee on the Leamington Spa petition.
 Mr. Tancred:  What is the date of that petition?
 Mr. Tancred:  When did the hon. Member receive it?
 Mr. Abercromby  said, that as he meant to concur in the Motion of the hon. member for Banbury, he wished to state the grounds upon which he did so. He certainly did not support the Motion with a view, either directly or indirectly, to suppress inquiry. He begged utterly to dis-
 187
 Mr. Buckingham  said, the observations with which he should venture to trouble the House on this occasion, would be very few and very short. Indeed, after the manner in which the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had met this Motion, and the attempts that had been made to stifle all discussion on this subject, it required no small degree of confidence to present himself to the House at all. That confidence, however, he derived from the strength of his convictions, as to the justice of the cause, and on this ground alone did he rise to express his entire concurrence in the proposition of the hon. mover. It appeared to him that there were usually three tests by which all measures introduced into tins House were judged—the first was, whether the public at large felt strongly on the subject and expressed those feelings in any marked manner:—the second was, whether there were any vested rights or large pecuniary interests at stake:—and the third was, whether, supposing the measure to be completed, any public satisfaction could be given, or any public good be produced. Now, judging the present question by each of these tests, he felt persuaded that it ought to be seriously entertained, and seriously met, and, therefore, he could not but regret the manner in which it had been treated as of no public importance whatever. As to the first, the noble Lord, and those who formed ins colleagues in the Cabinet, might believe, that the community at large took no interest in
 145 146
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that this was not a question merely of trade; it concerned the whole form of society. The course pursued by Government might rouse a spirit now slumbering in the country, which, in a few months hence, might be in a condition differing very much from that in which it was at present. He denied the peculiarity of this case. Most trades refused to allow more than a limited number to be instructed in the business. He might instance tailors—and attorneys, who were prevented by an Act of Parliament from having more than two articled clerks. In his opinion, labourers were perfectly justified in entering into those combinations, as long as they avoided violence or intimidation. But now the Government came in to the assistance of the more powerful party, which had other means to evade such combinations, besides counter-combinations—namely, their capital. There was a manifest injustice in this; for if the hands of the labourer were to be bound up—if he was not to be allowed to obtain the greatest value in his power for his labour, he would no longer be on an equality with his master. The interference of the Government was, therefore, a breach of that equality which ought to be held between the master and labourer, and was not justifiable by any arguments that could be brought in its support. He had observed from an illegal newspaper which was published, notwithstanding the Stamp-law of
 175 Trades' Union Newspaper 176
 Mr. Roebuck  hoped the diminution of the number of the vehicles in question would not form a part of the proposed measure. Their number could scarcely be too large, for if they exceeded the public necessity, they would, of themselves, diminish. He could only say, that with respect to the omnibuses, they were of great convenience to the citizens of London, and he should be sorry to see any measure introduced which might have the effect of checking a free trade in vehicles. Great caution was requisite in interfering with such a subject, for if the competition in omnibuses and stage-coaches were to be impeded, those persons who contrived to live a few miles out of London, with incomes of from 100 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  thought, after paying considerable attention to the subject, that licensing the drivers instead of the proprietors of omnibuses and cabriolets would be productive of bad consequences. It would be contrary, too, to the recommendation of the Committee which had sat on the subject, and which concluded, that it would be better to subject the proprietor, who had something, to the responsibility, and not the drivers, who had nothing but their weekly wages.
 Mr. Hume  was sorry that he had not been present at the commencement of this debate; but he could not permit it to con-
 151
 Mr. Hume  rose to move for copies of the correspondence between the master coopers and the Lords of the Admiralty, pursuant to a notice which he had given in consequence of the statements lately made by the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) on the subject of a dispute between the journeymen and the master coopers. In 1824, the House of Commons, acting upon his Motion, sub-
 158 l. s. l. s. 159 l. l. s. d. s. d. d. 160 161
 Mr. Hume  said, he would make a Motion upon the subject if no other Member gave notice of one.
 Mr. Fryer  said, that he was decidedly opposed to trades' unions though he was a Radical Reformer, and for this reason, that they would do the workmen no good. It was impossible for them to raise the wages beyond what the masters could give them, and the combination of the masters was ten times worse than that of the men. The combination which he wanted was a combination against the right hon. Baronet—a combination against the Corn-laws. Then the
 171
 Mr. Sheil  rose to express his own opinion upon this Motion rather than to invite Ministers, for such invitation he knew would be in vain, to express their sentiments upon it. He also rose, because he thought, that it would be pusillanimous, on his part, as an individual, not to record his opinions on a question so generally interesting. He could not help thinking that a large change of opinion with respect to the Bishops had taken place in the Ministry since no very remote period. Did not hon. Members recollect the menace uttered against them in another place, when they were significantly warned to "set their houses in order?" The times, however, were changed; and his Majesty's Ministers now felt retrospective indignation for the indignities winch these reverend personages formerly suffered. It appeared as if a declaration was now wanted from
 152
 Mr. Robert Grant  said, that he had been charged to present a petition from a large majority of the master coopers of the Metropolis—a petition which was signed by about nine-tenths of the whole of that body, and he regretted that the forms of the House had prevented him from presenting it before the debate began. With regard to the arguments used by the Gentlemen who spoke on the other side of the question, he considered that they were all based on an obvious fallacy. Hon. Members talked as if the Government had used, or were about to use force, to oblige the workmen to come into the terms proposed by the masters. But was that the case? Had the Attorney-General taken any steps on the part of the Government to punish those labourers who refused the terms offered? or had the Government called out the military to the assistance of the master coopers, to force the workmen to work for such wages as they chose to offer? No such steps had been taken; yet it was on this misconception that the whole of the arguments of the hon. Gentlemen opposite were founded. It had been argued that the labourers had a right to exact the best price they could obtain for their labour. He admitted that; but if labourers had, on the one side, the right to ask a full equivalent for their industry, surely the masters were entitled to a like privilege, and, if aggrieved, were entitled to seek assistance from individuals or from corporate bodies, from the public or from the Government. He did not mean as Government, hut in their capacity as traders; and if they, the masters, could legally ask the assistance of the Government, it was a solecism to say, that what they could legally ask, Government could not legally grant. Yet that was the whole of the argument of his right hon. friend. He was satisfied, that, in the petition which he held from the master coopers, they stated mulling that they could not substantiate; and if, as he found from it, the workmen could, without illegality, form a combination to reduce their hours of labour from sixteen to thirteen hours, and subsequently to twelve hours, mid yet demand the same amount of wages for the shortest period which they hail for the longest, he would say, that the masters had just as much right to form a combination among themselves to bring down wages as the men
 178
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  thought it highly imprudent on the part of the right hon. Baronet in thus throwing himself into the breach on the present occasion. These combinations were not confined to any particular trade or any particular locality; the principles extended throughout England and Ireland, as well as Prance and other parts of the Continent. Government were, therefore, premature in making war upon the poor journeymen coopers, and would have acted a more noble part if they had turned their arms against the Emperor of Russia, as they ought to have done. The hon. Member knew, that, since the present Combination-laws, there had been a general fall of prices all owing to the change in the currency. The workman had as good a right to keep up his paper wages as the First Lord of the Admiralty had to take his paper salary or paper rents in gold, or as the fund holders had to their paper dividends being paid in the same metal. He knew, from his own inquiries, that in Birmingham, in 1822, when meat was 3 d. 177
 Mr. Ewart  said, that he agreed with the hon. member for Tipperary, that the independent Members of the House should not be driven into a pusillanimous silence on this occasion. It might be well for his Majesty's Government to maintain a mysterious reserve; in them such a course ought be prudent, or expedient. But he (Mr. Ewart) held, that the independent Members of the House were justified in acting on more general principles, and of taking a long-sighted view of important questions such as this. They must consider what in the main, and with a comprehensive view of the future, was the wisest and most reasonable course. He entertained the conscientious opinion (and, entertaining it, he was bound to express it) that it would be better for the interests of
 153
 Mr. Gillon  rose to second the Motion of his hon. friend, the member for Gateshead. He felt it to be a subject which commanded much of the public attention, and one which it behoved the Legislature to take into their earliest—their most serious consideration. He should not conceive it necessary, in support of the Motion, to go back to very remote periods of history. He would at once admit, that as far as ancient usage or precedent went to establish a rule, that usage was all on the adverse side of the question. In the earliest periods of our history, we find the clergy taking a part in the Legislature of the kingdom, and before Parliaments existed, conferring with, and advising the Princes of the country, and forming a component part of the Councils of the nation. This was easily accounted for in earlier ages, for, besides the great power and wealth which they possessed, and the influence winch superstitious men imparted to them, they were, in fact, in these early times, the only educated portion of the community, and the power which they had thus acquired, and which was so acceptable to them, they endeavoured to continue, by perpetuating the ignorance of the people. But he considered antiquity to be no plea, for that which was by experience found to be hurtful, the more cause there was to remove it. He would, however, very briefly notice two periods in our history, which more immediately bore on the point now in view. In the discussions which took place in 1641, on the Bill for restraining Bishops and others from intermeddling in secular affairs, the arguments of those who maintained the rights of the Churchmen to sit in the other House of the Legislature, and of Lord Newark in particular, resolved themselves into three points,—1st, the antiquity of the custom—with that he should not further interfere: 2nd, that it would remove them only for a month or two from their spiritual vocations once in three years: 3rd, that by diminishing the dignity, it would diminish the respect paid to the Church. As to the second point, it was one which could not be brought forward in the present day. The House had been gravely told in the last Session, by the right hon. member for the University of Cambridge, of the importance of the superintending care of the Bishops to the well-being of the Church,
 138 139 140 141 142
 Mr. James  said, the conduct of Government on this occasion convinced him that they had no satisfactory answer to give to the Motion. He should not hesitate to support it.
 Mr. O'Reilly  said, it had been stated in a recent debate, that there were questions upon which hon. Members of the same religion as himself could not give a vote on account of the oaths which they had taken at the Bar of that House; but as he (though a Roman Catholic) was resolved to vote upon this question, he was anxious to trespass on the attention of the House for a few moments, while he stated the grounds of his vote. He felt that by that moral compact, to which the right hon. member for Tamworth had so forcibly alluded on a former evening, he was not only bound not to injure the Protestant Establishment as now existing by law, but that he was also bound to afford it—not, indeed, as a religion, for from its religion he conscientiously dissented, but as an institution which the State thought necessary—that support which the members of it deemed essential to its security and preservation. Recollecting that an hon. and learned Member who spoke with great authority had denied that any moral compact had ever been entered into by the Catholics on the subject, he felt himself called upon as a Catholic to state, and he did state it most explicitly, that he recognized distinctly the existence of that moral compact. He cared not whether that recognition rendered him popular or otherwise, for, as an honest man, he felt bound to make that declaration. It might not make him popular among a population which was smarting and suffering from the oppression which it had sustained under too many members of the Establishment; but he was certain that, in making that recognition, he was expressing the opinion of every honest, conscientious, and independent Catholic in the country from which he came. He was particularly anxious that the grounds upon which he was going to
 147
 Mr. O'Reilly  said, that under the present system of combination, there was no such thing as free trade for the industrious and hottest artisans of the country. Combination met the free exercise of industry at every turn. He would, by way of illustration, state the case of the master shipbuilders of Dublin. They were forced to employ old and comparatively useless men, because the young men who were brought within the vortex of combination, would not, or dared not, work for them. If a ship required repairs, she could not be repaired in Dublin, but the ship-owner was obliged to send her to England or Scotland, there to be repaired by Irish artisans, perhaps, who could not find employment at home. In his own parish, consisting chiefly of a fishing population, the fishermen could not get their boats mended by giving wages common to carpenters all round the country. There were a few persons there who monopolized the ship-carpenters' business, and they required double wages. There was no one more unwilling than he was to revive the Combination-laws. But if threats and combinations were carried to a successful point by the labourers, then he hoped there was a moral power in the country, or in the Government, to offer a
 179
 The Speaker : I hope that the House, when circumstances so strongly affecting a most valuable right of the subject, and so deeply affecting the dignity and character of this House, are stated to them, will not fail to do their duty. If they do not, I will venture to say this is the first time when such a proceeding was passed over. If the hon. member should decline to proceed, some hon. Member will, I am sure, take the matter up.
 The Speaker  said, that, as well as his experience and recollection prompted, the usual practice was, that the Committee was appointed on the complaint, and at the instance of some person or persons interested, made in some shape or other, but generally in the form of a petition. A case had been referred to, which had been brought before the House not in that form. It was true there was such a precedent; but then the complaint was made in a written letter, which gave it some sort of formality, and was read by the hon. Member to the House, which thereupon granted the Committee. In adopting this course, he (the Speaker), believed the House was influenced by the consideration that a letter had in some sort the effect of a petition, and inferred a responsibility. The House would, in this instance, exercise its own discretion, but the practice was, to take care that the grievance complained of should be substantiated by the assurance and responsibility of some party aggrieved, and therefore to require something more than a mere statement. On this practice, and believing that some person aggrieved was accessory to the complaint, the House granted the Committee. Many hon. Members and he were of opinion that a petition existed, which afterwards turned out not to be the case, as no petition had been forwarded. The Committee had been appointed, and had made some progress in their inquiry, when this was discovered to be the case, and under these circumstances the noble Lord put the question whether it would be more regular to proceed with the inquiry, or to discharge the Committee. He did not think it would be irregular to discharge the Committee. The House vas at liberty to reconsider its vote upon the matter, and if it believed it more conducive to the ends of justice to discharge the Committee, the House certainly had it in its power to do so. But if the matter had already proceeded so fir that there would be a difficulty in retracing its steps, and if by the inquiry, as hitherto proceeded in, matters appeared greatly involved, the House should then be guided by circumstances, and resolve accordingly.
 Sir James Graham  had listened with particular attention to the speech of the hon. member for Middlesex, and could assure him that he courted investigation, and was rejoiced the subject had been brought forward, as he should thereby be enabled to state the reasons that influenced Government in the course they had thought proper to adopt. He admitted the truth of the general principle laid down by the hon. Member, that it was not advisable to interfere in disputes between masters and workmen, but, in the circumstances of this particular case, he considered the conduct of Government justifiable. At the commencement of his observations, he was desirous of saying, that the hon. Member had not disappointed his expectations in stating his peculiar anxiety on the subject, the hon. Member having pressed the repeal of the Combination-laws in 1824—a repeal which at the time he (Sir J. Graham) thought questionable in theory, and, in point of practical prudence, extremely doubtful; but in reference to which, he was satisfied that the hon. Gentleman's motives were perfectly pure. He was convinced, that the hon. Member was the last person who would have any connexion with acts of violence. The hon. Gentleman had laid down the principle which should govern the proceedings of workmen with perfect correctness. It was true, that the workman's labour was his commodity, for which he was entitled to obtain the best price he could, without having recourse to force or intimidation. He was glad to have the hon. Member's authority for this, because, if this salutary rule had been violated in the present instance, it would probably be thought that Government was justifiable in interfering in support of the masters, in opposition to the workmen, who attempted to enforce an act of injustice by means such as the hon. Member would scarcely defend. The
 162 Hume Hume: 163 l. s. d. l. s. s. d. s. l. s. d. Hume; l. 164 165 166
 Sir Robert Peel  reminded the House that the Committee had been appointed at the suggestion of the hon. member for Middlesex; and, as to its composition, he was sure, there could be no objection to placing upon it either of the hon. Members, or any other hon. Member who expressed a desire to be upon it. But he hoped the House would suspend its judgment, both upon the expense and the administration of the metropolitan police, till the Report of the Committee was made. It was denounced as an expensive force; but the term "expensive" was relative, and, in order to find out its value in the present case, they must first inquire whether the number of the men employed was greater than was necessary to preserve the peace of the metropolis. They must next ascertain whether their dress was too expensive, or the pay higher than it ought to be; or whether it was made a source of patronage, which he was sure it was not, the object being to secure as efficient persons as possible. If it should be found upon inquiry, that efficient men could be secured for less pay, he was sure there
 129
 Sir Samuel Whalley  thought it very desirable that the Government should turn its attention to diminish the expense of the metropolitan police. It was an efficient force, and he believed, that the principal cause of the dislike entertained towards it in the metropolis, was the great increase of the parochial expenses since its institution. He was glad to see the noble Lord, the Under Secretary for the Home Department in his place, as he might have an opportunity of removing an apprehension which was very generally felt abroad, that the Committee which had been appointed this Session, to inquire into the constitution, management, and expenditure of the police, was not fairly formed. Neither of the members for Westminster was upon that Committee. Nor was he, although he represented two of the most populous parishes in the metropolis. His learned colleague, indeed, had been put upon the Committee, but that Gentleman had not half the leisure to devote to the inquiry that he had.
 Mr. Clay  presented a Petition from the parish of St. George, in the county of Middlesex, complaining of the institution of the me-
 126
 Sir William Ingilby  would not occupy their attention for five minutes. He dissented from the course adopted by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The consequence of not allowing a question of the kind to be discussed in that House, was to make it more eagerly discussed in the country. Fur his own part, he would rather that question was debated in Parliament than out of Parliament. All questions connected with the Church were most important, more especially a question which involved a charge of sacrificing spiritual duties to political pursuits. Whence arose the great body of Dissenters in this country but from the neglect of the Church? All classes of Dissenters concurred in one common sentiment—that dissent arose from the neglect of the Churchmen. Those who wished well to the Church would think with him, that they had better suffer these discussions to take place within the walls or that House than beyond them.
 Lord Althorp  was understood to say, that he did not believe that many Gentlemen were inclined to support the Motion. If he thought so, he might have been inclined to discuss the question; but, in deference to the strong expression of feeling in the House, he thought he might fairly be excused from entering into any discussion on its merits.
 Lord Althorp  said, that he should be extremely sorry if, in giving his vote for the Motion, he should be supposed to do anything detrimental to free-trade. He did not think he should be doing so; on the contrary, he thought some legislative enactment on the subject would be of great public advantage. It was certainly desirable that instances of gross misconduct on the part of the driver, such as had been frequently before the public, should he put an end to.
 Lord Althorp  said, the subject which had been brought before the House was one of importance, involving as it did a great general principle. He was read to throw aside the question of amount, and to admit, that the labourer was justly entitled to sell his labour at the highest price. He concurred with the hon. member for Leeds that the Government ought not to interfere in questions raised between masters and workmen, unless, he must add, very particular reasons on a particular case were assigned. What, then, was the present case? It stood thus: that the working coopers combined not only for the purpose of obtaining an increase of wages, but also to decrease the supply of workmen from other quarters, and though the combination had not been guilty of, or resorted to, any act which could be strictly called illegal, yet he (Lord Althorp) did think that a combination to prevent employers having free scope in the market of labour,
 173 Roebuck 174
 Lord Eastnor  said, that in presenting the petition to which the hon. member for Dover alluded, he had stated, that it referred to the petition of last year. He was extremely sorry that there had been any misunderstanding on the subject. He could not vouch, of course, for the correctness of each and every signature to the petition; but he had spared no pains to ascertain their authenticity; and he had been assured by a man on whose veracity be placed the fullest reliance, and who had collected the greater number of the signatures, that they were perfectly genuine. He begged to say, that he should be inclined to dissuade the hon. member for Dover from pressing for an inquiry to prove a negative with respect to all the names, on account of the inconvenience and expense which it must necessarily occasion. He would prefer having the inquiry limited to those who described themselves as 10 l.
 Viscount Howick  denied, that there was anything unfair in the manner in which the Committee had been appointed. Last Session a Committee had been named, to which not the slightest objection had been made. The Committee had proceeded to investigate, but were unable to
 127
 Mr. O'Connell  presented a Petition from the fishermen
 191 s. l
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he had received a letter from Mr. Dundas, against whose appointment as a stipendiary Magistrate he had on a former day remonstrated. He thought it but just to the individual to read it. It appeared to be dated from Liverpool, on the 7th instant, and stated that the ground of charge connected with the police force of the county of Wexford had occurred seven years ago, when the writer had resigned his situation as Chief Constable. He had made good all deficiencies to the utmost farthing that had been demanded, and had appeared at the head Police-Office of Dublin, where he had given bail to appear to answer any charge that might be subsequently brought against him. No charge had been brought, and he denied, that he had been guilty of any malversation in the discharge of his office; but having resigned it, and having a large family to provide for, he had applied for a situation in the colonies, the individual who recommended him being quite ignorant that he (Mr. Dundas) had held any situation in Ireland. He deeply regretted, that Mr. O'Connell had thought it necessary to bring forward the case at so distant a date, when proofs of innocence were so difficult to be procured, and claimed the benefit of the maxim, that every man was to be considered innocent until he had been found guilty by a Jury of his country. The hon. Member added, that in consequence of the receipt of this letter he had applied to his informant, Mr. Walker, a Member of the House, who had acted as a Magistrate of the county of Wicklow in the original investigation of the case against Mr. Dundas, and from him he had received a statement, in answer to the foregoing bold assertion of innocence, which he would also read. It represented that the original suspicion of the inaccuracy of the accounts of Mr. Dundas had arisen in 1824, and in 1827 distinct charges were brought against him. A Commission had been appointed to investigate the whole case; and on the thirteenth day of the inquiry it appeared that Mr. Dundas had given 10 l 193 l l l
 Colonel Evans  was glad to see, that the general feeling of the House was, that Mr. Ellis should not be degraded by being offered a subordinate office. He did not think that Mr. Ellis had been treated with any extraordinary favour. The Tellers received compensation unconditionally, although their offices were perfect sinecures, while the Clerk of the Pells, whose situation was not a sinecure, received compensation subject to certain conditions. It appeared, that five or six years ago, Mr. Ellis made some economical
 219 amende honorable
 Mr. Tennyson  thought, that compensation should only be granted to Mr. Ellis on the condition of his accepting the first office offered to him.
 Mr. Tennyson  thought, that Mr. Ellis might very well discharge the duties of
 220 l
 Mr. Lennard  protested altogether against the argument urged by the right hon. Gentleman the Judge-Advocate, to the effect that, because a fair experiment was in course of trial, the Motion before the House was inadmissible. That experiment could only properly be tried by first taking away the power of inflicting corporal punishment, and then seeing whether it could be dispensed with. As far as the soldier was concerned, it made little difference to him, whether the punishment was inflicted in a greater or a less degree; what the soldier desired was, to get rid altogether of that which he felt to be a degradation. He altogether dissented from the opinion, that flogging was a punishment which, as the British army was at present constituted, could not be dispensed with; and he was sure to find very many most competent authorities coinciding with him in that opinion. He implored the House to accede to the Motion, and at once relieve the British soldier from that unenviable uncertainty as to the future enforcement of corporal punishment, to which the right hon. Gentleman, the Judge Advocate, seemed disposed to abandon him.
 Mr. O'Connell  would have given a silent vote, but for the observation of the hon. Member who had just resumed his seat. That hon. Member spoke of the question as being left in a state of uncertainty by his Majesty's Government; but he was sorry to say, it was not even uncertain. Not the least hope was held out that the brutal and disgraceful practice of military flogging would be abolished. There would, however, he trusted, be a division. He should, at all events, have the satisfaction of recording his vote in favour of the Motion. To no set of men would he intrust the power of flogging their fellow-beings; but least of all, would he entrust that power to the officers of the British army. The idea that a set of mere striplings should have the power of torturing their fellow-subjects, was perfectly
 248
 Colonel Evans  thought, it must be allowed that the speech of the right hon. Gentleman was satisfactory in many particulars. With respect to his observations, however, upon secondary punishments, there were one or two in which he did not coincide. The right hon. Gentleman seemed to condemn the appeal to any legislation upon the subject, by the Parliament; but the feeling of the public was, that the system of punishment by flogging was monstrous, and that feeling was not to he allayed by the prospect of its diminution merely. The public feeling had been excited for a long time with reference to this question, and there was no probability of its ceasing; and it must have an effect upon the minds of the soldiers generally. The noble Lord had described in strong terms, the class of men who enlisted into the army; but, as long as the punishment of flogging existed, so long would the class of persons who enlisted into the army be bad.
 Mr. Mark Philips  said, he had come down to the House prepared to vote for the Resolution of the hon. and gallant Member; but the arguments which he had heard in support of the conduct of Government, in this affair, were so just and persuasive as to warrant him in, at least, suspending that vote. He believed Government were anxious to do their best; and believing this he should suspend his vote, to give them an opportunity, before another year and another renewal of the Mutiny Act came round, to complete the arrangements they doubtless had under their consideration.
 Captain Curteis  was also about to give a different vote to the one he had given last year. He should now vote for the Motion of the hon. and gallant member for Barnstaple, it being his firm conviction that unless some alteration was effected in the present system of military punishment, the army could not be maintained in a state of subordination.
 Lord Darlington  said, he would oppose the Motion; but begged the House would not infer from that circumstance, that he was an advocate for the infliction of corporal punishment, except for serious offences. In expressing his conviction, that it was expedient to invest the military authorities with the power of so punishing their men, he thought it proper to state, that he grounded that conviction on his own personal experience during the twelve years he had been in the army. In the recent discussion which had taken place in that House on the subject of the impressment of seamen, it had been justly remarked by a gallant Admiral (Sir Edward Codrington), that the scum only of the service were subjected to the lash. It was precisely the same with regard to corporal punishment in the army. The bad only were subjected to military torture; the good escaped that species of punishment. If solitary confinement were had recourse to as a substitute, the consequence would be most injurious to the discipline and morals of the army. The offender would come out of prison more demoralized, from his unavoidable occasional association with felons, than when he went in. If the power of inflicting corporal punishment were withdrawn from the Military Authorities, it would soon be found that crime greatly increased in the army. It was indispensably necessary, that severe punishments should be resorted to among the British troops. It was found necessary by the Civil-law, to inflict severe punishment for the offence of theft. It was still more necessary that such offence, when committed in the Army, should meet with severe punishment; particularly when one soldier stole from another. It had been said that, though it might not be advisable to dispense with corporal punishments in all instances, they might be dispensed with in some. He would answer that position by appealing to the House, what they conceived would be the effect of enforcing corporal punishment abroad, which was the thing meant, while the punishment inflicted at home was only solitary confinement. Would not the consequence be, that soldiers would have an aversion to going abroad, and that, therefore, we
 243
 Sir John Byng  felt it necessary to intrude himself upon the attention of the House, in consequence of an expression which had fallen from the hon. and learned member for Dublin, relative to the officers of the British army. That hon. and learned Member, in his ignorance of every quality constituting the character of a British officer, had the charity to say, that they were the last men to whom he would intrust the power of flogging. He would beg to tell the House, and he did so with all the sincerity of a soldier, that the officers of the British army were the first to whom he would intrust such a power. He knew the character of a British officer well, and if there was any point on which he was inclined to find fault with it, it was a proneness to mercy where mercy was ill-advised. With regard to the Motion, he implored the House not to consent to it. In fourteen days the Mutiny Bill would expire; and if the Motion were carried, the army would, in point of fact, be left without control. If the abolition of flogging was to take place, he strongly and earnestly recommended the House to let it come from the proper authorities. The less the question was agitated in that House the better it would be for the discipline of the British army. Since the subject was first agitated it was undoubtedly true, that corporal punishment had not been so often put into requisition as before, but he regretted to say, it was not because crime had decreased. On the contrary, crime had increased; and his conviction was, that, if the power of inflicting corporal punishment was altogether removed, until an efficient substitute was provided, that increase would be carried to a truly alarming extent. He had himself spoken to many old soldiers on the subject, and they one and all concurred in declaring that, if the power of flogging was taken away, no good could be got of the soldiers.
 Lord Dudley Stuart , even at that late hour of the night was anxious to explain the motive upon which he should found his vote. When he had come down to the House he had hoped to have been able to support the Motion of the gallant officer, for no man in the world could have a greater abhorrence of the practice of flogging than he had. He could not join the gallant General in deprecating the discussion of this question, particularly when he looked to the small majorities which had been obtained. On the contrary, he thought that this subject was one which ought to be unceasingly agitated; and, though it was not his intention to support the Motion of the gallant Officer, yet he felt obliged to him for calling the attention of his Majesty's Government and of the country to the matter, because he was quite sure that the effect of these discussions must be to improve the situation of the army, and to prevent a recurrence of those distressing scenes which had occurred in respect to flogging in future. The right. hon. Gentleman (Mr. Ellice) might say what he pleased about the Government not being compelled to act upon the fact of large minorities in that House, but there could be no doubt that the minority of last Session had had its effect, as large minorities at all times had upon the Government. The reason
 254
 Lord Granville Somerset  was sure, that if his right hon. friend had deemed it necessary to apologize to the Committee for detaining it with so dry a subject, while he submitted to the House an explanation of the details which he had offered to its consideration, it was still more necessary for him to offer the Committee a similar apology, for the demand which he was now about to make upon its attention. He was happy to find, that his Majesty's Government had at last brought before the House this very useful recommendation of the Commissioners appointed
 203 204 205 206 J. Graham: 207 l 208 pro formà
 Lord William Lennox , at that late hour of the evening would confine himself to one or two observations, but he could not listen to a sentiment expressed by the hon. member for Rye, who had preceded him—that if corporal punishment was not abolished, the discipline of the army could not be carried on. He thought such an expression from a military man would have a direct tendency to promote mutiny. He was no advocate for the lash, but he could not support so visionary a plan as that brought forward to abolish corporal punishment all over the globe; it was impracticable; in countries where spirits were cheap, the whole army would be in a state of insubordination if the punishment were withdrawn. Solitary confinement was inefficacious; besides, a man's pay accumulated, and the moment he was released, he again got into the same state of inebriety. Corporal punishment was degrading, and yet many there were who had turned out good soldiers after receiving it. He knew officers who had risen from the ranks who had been punished. He would vote for a limited flogging, but not to its entire abolition, especially abroad.
 Major Fancourt  rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice on this subject. He said, that in submitting to the House some of the considerations which induced him to move a clause for the abolition of military flogging, he was anxious that the motives by which he had been induced to come forward should not be misunderstood. He could assure the House, that if any hon. Gentleman, whether connected with the Ministers or not, had evinced a disposition to take up the question with a view to its final settlement, he should have been content to give a silent vote for the abolition of military flogging; but when on a late
 222 223 224 225 226 227 228 229 230
 Mr. Hawes  also stated, that he had been induced to change his mind since he entered the House, and should suspend the vote he had intended to give against Ministers upon the present occasion.
 Mr. Charles Grant  wished to express his opinion on the services of Mr. Ellis. He had been described as "new to the public service." Never was there a gentleman to whom that expression could be less justly applied. Perhaps there was no public man who, after such long and continued services, had gained so little. Mr. Ellis, for the last three years, had been one of tile unpaid Commissioners of the Board of Control. His intimate acquaintance with the whole system of our Indian policy (Mr. Ellis having been in India more than once) had proved extremely valuable; and he (Mr. Charles Grant) was bound, in common justice, to confess his obligations to his right hon. friend last year, on the question of the renewal of the East-India Company's charter.
 Mr. Ellice  could assure the hon. Baronet, that he was fully aware of the great importance of this subject. It had been very lately under the consideration of Government, and within the last week measures had been suggested to him which he had no doubt, when they were matured, would put an end to the inconvenience complained of. He trusted that this statement would satisfy the hon. Baronet, that Government were sensible of the evils to which he had alluded, and that they had done, and were about to do, all in their power to stop them. The number of Courts-martial that had been lately held had very much increased the number of prisoners that had been sent to the gaols of the metropolis and of the county of Kent. It was quite true that soldiers, after their intercourse with the other prisoners in gaols, returned to their regiments in no improved state of mind, and the evil had arisen to such a height that Government had no choice left but that of considering measures for confining soldiers separately. He trusted that he should be shortly able to introduce a measure for that purpose.
 Mr. Ellice , in answer to the inquiry of the hon. and learned Member, could only say that the Returns moved for had not been ordered during his possession of office. As he had risen to answer the question of the hon. and learned Gentleman, he would observe, that with respect to what had taken place with regard to the hon. member for Sheffield and himself last Session, he had given a correct statement. But he had stated to that hon. and learned Gentleman, that measures were in contemplation which would, as far as possible, meet the wishes of the minority on that occasion. He had distinctly reserved to himself the power of acting upon the spirit of the feeling of the House at that time—reserv-
 251 252 253
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that there was not the slightest doubt or imputation on Mr. Ellis's merits and services; and he quite agreed with the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham), that it would not be justice to any gentleman who had filled such a situation as Mr. Ellis to place him in the subordinate situation of Assistant-Comptroller. What he (Mr. Goulburn) felt, was this,—that, knowing Mr. Ellis to be a man of business, who had been employed in important public transactions, and believing him to deserve the confidence of
 217 l
 Mr. Goulburn  agreed with the noble Lord in his general proposition, but thought that on occasion of the construction of a new class of officers, it involved no improper interference with the functions of Government or prerogative of the Crown to suggest the nomination of qualified individuals, who must otherwise be superannuated at some cost; neither could he see any impropriety in suggesting the adoption of the most efficient system of control over the expenditure of the public money.
 Mr. Buckingham  said, having been twice personally alluded to in the course of this debate, first by the hon. and gallant Officer who opened this question, and since, by the right hon. the Judge Advocate, he felt it his duty to rise, in order to explain more clearly the circumstance referred to, in connexion with the mention of his name. The hon. and gallant Member—inadvertently, no doubt—spoke of his abandonment of this question, on what the gallant Officer deemed insufficient grounds, and assigned this as his reason for taking it up. The House would probably remember, that during the last Session, and subsequent to the debate on the Motion of the hon. member for Middlesex, he (Mr. Buckingham) had a notice on the books for the abolition of military flogging. On that occasion, when he rose in his place to bring on that Motion, the right hon. the Secretary-at-War (Mr. Ellice) addressed the House, and stated, that not only was this subject under the anxious consideration of his Majesty's Government, but that an Order was actually in preparation at the War-Office, which would be speedily promulgated to the army, in which the punishment of flogging was strictly enjoined to be confined to the three great crimes of mutiny, drunkenness on duty, and theft. The right hon. Secretary then appealed to his (Mr. Buckingham's) sense of justice to wait at least until the Order should be issued, and the effect of the restrictions tried:—and, confiding, as he was not ashamed to confess he did, on the assurance of the right hon. Gentleman, that the Order alluded to, would restrict the punishment to the offences named, he expressed his willingness not to abandon, but merely to postpone the Motion until the Order appeared, and wait until the next Session
 244 245 246 247
 Mr. Hume  would candidly say, that if his Majesty's Government had the power to abolish the practice of flogging, he would leave the matter in their hands. It was because they had not the power that flogging was not done away with, and their intentions were not honestly carried into effect. He would say, that no such order as that which had been adverted to had been carried into effect; and why was this? Was it not because the Commander-in-Chief ruled the whole country, and did what he pleased—and because his Majesty's Government had not the power to act, as, he believed, they wished to do? The House would certainly not do their duty unless they compelled the military authorities to abolish this system of punishment.
 Mr. Hume  thought it would be prudent not to grant compensation to any individual while he was able to work, and to discharge the duties of some other office under Government. They should not agree to this Resolution without having a distinct pledge from his Majesty's Ministers, that if any of the individuals to whom those allowances should be given should be hereafter appointed to any situation under Government, the allowance should cease. If they could not any longer employ Mr. Ellis as Clerk of the Pells, why not take the earliest opportunity to give him some other employment?
 Mr. Hume  felt great satisfaction at the proposal of the measure, for ten years, at least, had elapsed since the Chancellor of the Exchequer of that day had pledged himself to effect the alteration the present Bill was directed to accomplish. The plan laid down was a simple one, but he thought it might have been made more extensive. He wished, however, to ascertain one point, which was, whether Lord Auckland was to hold his present office in Greenwich Hospital and likewise the comptrollership specified in the present Bill? He hoped that under the present arrangement, no individual holding a plurality of offices would be entitled to superannuation allowances. He regretted that the measure, as he had said, did not go further, because he was convinced that, until the whole of the gross revenue was paid into the Exchequer, it would be quite impossible to check the extravagant expenditure of the Customs, Excise, Post, and Stamp Offices; which paid only the amount of the nett revenue raised by them into the Exchequer, making whatever deductions they pleased, if the Treasury chose to allow them. This system had led to great abuse in the expenditure of these departments. It was contrary to the spirit and principle of the English Constitution, that the House of Commons should have no control over this part of the expenditure of the country. He was anxious to hear from the right hon. Baronet what objection there could be to this additional 3,000,000 l l
 Mr. Hume  hoped it might not be understood that in asking the question he should be supposed to be under-rating the talents of the noble Lord. No one was more ready than himself to acknowledge the noble Lord's talents for business. His only object was to enforce the principle of non-pluralities. On one point the right hon. Baronet had not understood his remarks. The Exchequer Office was constituted for the purpose of keeping an
 212 l
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  did not think it a matter of more importance to provide efficient checks on the public accounts than to lessen the amount of the public monies placed in the hands of public officers. As a measure of economy he approved of the present Bill, but he hoped that some alteration would be made in the clause which related to the appointments of the Comptroller and Assistant-comptroller of the Exchequer. He disapproved of public officers being appointed to their situations for life, and thought that no one should hold a public situation except during pleasure. The amount of the salaries at present paid was 40,900 l 213 l l
 Mr. Matthias Attwood : If Mr. Ellis had performed great public services, strike his name out of tile Bill, and address his Majesty to place him on the Pension-list. If this proposition were not acceptable to the House, let Mr. Ellis be called upon to fill the office of Comptroller-General, for which he was so eminently fitted by his talents and great public services.
 Mr. Sheil  rose to ask one question. In July, 1832, an order was made by the House of Commons for a Return of the number of cases of corporal punishment from 1825 to 1831. He wished to know where was the Return to that order? Sir
 250 Grant:
 Mr. Robert Grant  could not but congratulate the hon. and gallant Member who had brought forward the present Motion upon the great temper, moderation, and conciliatory spirit, with which he had submitted it to the House. He thought it necessary, standing officially as he did in the House, to call its attention to the true position in which the important subject now under its consideration really stood, because he thought that the hon. and gallant mover of the proposition now submitted to the House had been guilty of an oversight in this respect. He was the more desirous of reminding the House of these circumstances, because it had been charged as a great omission on the part of the hon. member for Sheffield, that he had
 232 233 234 235 infamia facti, infamia juris bona fide 236 
 
 1830 was 658 
 1831 646 
 1832 485 
 1833 370 237 bona fide 238 239 240 241 ex vi termini 242
 Sir Edward Codrington  wished to say a few words relative to a statement which had been made, that in the navy it had been found that the less punishment there was, the better discipline prevailed. This was an error. The good discipline of the ship depended, not upon the quantity of punishment, but upon the justness of the punishments, however severe they might be. He would state as an illustration the case of a vessel in which in a short space of time the different courses were adopted. At first there was no pretence at discipline in this ship, and consequently nobody did his duty, if even he knew it. After this a lieutenant was promoted to the command, who determined upon introducing the severest discipline amongst the crew; punishments were rigidly inflicted when necessary, but it soon turned out that a necessity very seldom occurred for punishment. When the ship was thus reduced to good order, another officer was promoted to the command, who set out by determining to do nothing as it had been done by the previous captain. The consequence was, that the ship no longer was like a man-of-war. He was on board of this ship when twelve men were obliged to be punished in one day to keep down a mutiny. Such was the case in the navy, and he dared say it was the same in the army, that the best soldiers were to be found where punishments were inflicted, however severe, provided they were just.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  wished to take that opportunity to put a question to the right hon. gentleman, the Secretary at War. It was well known, that great inconvenience was produced in the county gaols throughout the kingdom by the imprisonment of soldiers under sentence of Court-martial. From fifty to sixty men formed generally the average number of soldiers confined under such sentences in the county gaol of Kent, at Maidstone. It was unnecessary for him to dwell upon the inconveniences thereby produced. The imprisonment of such a number of men there put it out of the power of the Magistrates to introduce such improvements
 221
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  declared himself perfectly satisfied with the statement of the right hon. Gentleman.
 Sir George Grey  hoped, he should not be accused of inconsistency in giving a vote this evening, at variance with the vote he had given last year upon this question. He had voted for the Motion of last Session because he had looked forward to its leading to a good practical result. He should vote against the Motion now before the House, because he did not consider it practicable forthwith to abolish all corporal punishments in the army. He was sorry that a more cautious and limited Resolution had not been brought forward. He was prepared to support any proposal to limit the extent of punishments in the army, and the nature of the offences to which they should be attached. There were crimes of a disgraceful nature which warranted a disgraceful sort of punishment. But there was no pretence to justify the infliction of absolute torture. The words
 255
 Sir George Staunton , as a colleague of Mr. Ellis, bore testimony to his valuable services in various diplomatic offices, and hoped that Parliament's sense of justice would not permit it to deprive that gentleman of the present small and inadequate reward for the labours of more than twenty years.
 Sir Harry Verney  denied, that British officers desired to retain the power of flogging, except as a necessary means of enforcing the discipline of the army. He appealed to every military man present whether a military execution was not regarded by British officers as by many degrees the most painful part of their duty? On such occasions, the general appearance of the officers would induce a common spectator, ignorant of the real cause, to conceive that some great misfortune had befallen them. Until distinct military prisons were secured, the experiment, as to whether military flogging could with safety be abolished, would
 249
 Mr. Henry Bulwer  was sorry to find it necessary to appeal to the House, lest a man of eminent public services should be degraded by being reduced to an office of subordinate rank.
 Sir Henry Parnell  said, that the country had great reason to be well satisfied at the introduction of this measure, which was one step towards financial reform, and he hoped that the principles laid down in the Bill would sooner or later be extended to other branches of the public expenditure. He could not agree with the noble Lord (Lord Granville Somerset) in his notion of the advantage of a double check. On the contrary he entirely concurred in the view taken by his right hon. friend, and he could prove if it were necessary that the introduction of a double check was altogether owing to the impel-
 210
 Sir James Graham  said, it was precisely because the measure was so extensive that his Majesty's Government was induced to think it went far enough. The most advisable course certainly was, to proceed cautiously, and to ascertain the effect of the present measure, before adopting a more extensive one. He was sure he might appeal to the high authority of his right hon. friend, the member for Dundee (Sir Henry Parnell), whether if the present measure were successful, it would not greatly facilitate the progress of those
 211
 Sir James Graham  stated, that this was, undoubtedly, a measure of economy, and calculated to create a considerable saving; but economy ought not to be considered as its primary object. It was a measure of still higher importance,—for the regulation and greater accountability of those intrusted with the public money, for affording easier access to the public accounts, and improving the mode of keeping them, and creating a more effectual control over the public expenditure. He could not admit the principle, that the selection of officers belonged to the House of Commons: it was the duty of the Government to charge itself with that responsibility. It was represented, that Mr. Ellis was only new in the public service. That was not the case: he had served his country in every part of the globe for twenty-two years. In 1812, Mr. Ellis entered the public service as Secretary to Lord Buckingham, then President of the Board of Trade. In 1814, he proceeded to Persia on a special mission, and concluded a treaty of importance with that country, to the satisfaction of the English Government. In 1815, Mr. Ellis was appointed one of the Commissioners for concluding a treaty with the United States of America. He subsequently proceeded with Lord Amherst on his embassy to China; and in 1817, on his return to this country, resumed his situation of Commissioner for the commercial treaty with the United
 214 l 215 216
 Sir James Graham  thanked his noble friend for the great candour with which he had discussed this question. Some of the suggestions which his noble friend had made appeared to him to be so well founded in justice and common sense, that they appeared to his colleagues and himself to be worthy of adoption in the Bill. The suggestion which appeared to him to be the most important was that which prohibited the Comptroller from holding any other situation under the Crown. He would on a future occasion add to the Bill an enactment containing that prohibition. He had no objection to make in the preamble the insertion which his noble friend desired. With regard to what the
 209 l l l l l
 Sir James Graham , in moving the further consideration of the Report on the Exchequer Receipt Bill, said, he should postpone his statement respecting the general scheme of the measure until the House resolved into a Committee for the purpose of considering the amount of compensation to be given to the officers who were affected by this Bill. The right hon. Baronet moved, that the House resolve itself into a Committee to consider of the compensation to be allowed for the abolition of certain offices in the establishment of his Majesty's Exchequer at Westminster, in consequence of the passing of any Act in the present Session for the reduction of the same.
 Sir James Graham  had to thank the House for the courtesy it had shown in having allowed him to advance so far in a measure of so much importance as the present without calling on him at an earlier stage to state its principles and justify its details. The subject was of a very complicated nature, and though he was at the same time deeply convinced of its importance, and that it well deserved the gravest attention of the Committee, he was afraid that he might make it neither attractive nor clear. In the first place, he had to explain the circumstances under which he had been selected to bring the matter under the notice of the House. He had been called upon to introduce the measure on the part, of Government, having had the honour of serving on a Commission appointed by his Majesty to inquire into the Public Accounts, over which the right hon. Baronet, the member for Dundee, (Sir Henry Parnell) then a Member of his Majesty's Government, presided; but as his Majesty's Government had not now the honour to reckon that right hon. Gentleman as one of their colleagues, and as it was considered that a measure of such importance as the present should be brought forward by one of his Majesty's responsible advisers, although, in the presence of the right hon. Baronet. (Sir Henry Parnell), he deeply felt his unworthiness, yet, as it had been judged adviseable, he (Sir James Graham), being one of the Commission, had ventured to undertake the task. In the next place, he had to submit to the Committee some explanation of the circumstances which had led to the introduction of the measure itself, which had been contemplated, in its principle at least, by the predecessors of the present Government, and recommended in its details by the Commission to which he had alluded. First of all, then, he had to state to the Committee, that the importance of the measure had received the most mature and anxious consideration; and perhaps he might here be permitted to allude to a circumstance which would appear on the face of the Report—namely, that the late Auditor of the Exchequer, Lord Grenville, having entertained certain objections to the proposed alterations, the feeling both of the First Lord of the Treasury and the Chancellor of the Exchequer with respect to that distinguished individual had operated on their minds as an obstacle to the introduction of so extensive a change; but
 195 196 197 198 199 l l l l G. F. Young: 200 201 l 202 l l l
 Sir James Graham  then proposed a Resolution to the effect, that as compensation to the Tellers of the Exchequer and Clerk of the Pells, whose offices would be abolished, the sum of 8,323 l
 Sir James Graham  said, he had again to repeat the assurance which he had given on the part of Lord Auckland, that while he held the office of Comptroller-General, it was not his intention to receive that pension to which he possessed a vested right. As to Mr. Ellis, it was obvious that he had a right to be placed in an independent situation before they talked of giving him another appointment. If Mr. Ellis had no right, by the nature and tenure of his office, to compensation, then, indeed, the argument of the right hon. Gentleman might have some force. But on the abolition of his office, Mr. Ellis had a right to compensation; and when that matter was decided, then it would be for him either to refuse it, or accept any situation which the Government might offer him. On the part of Mr. Ellis, he would give this assurance, that if the Government should offer him a situation (which it was their intention to do at the first moment that it was in their power), he would not refuse it.
 Mr. John P. B. Chichester  seconded the Motion. He complimented the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had introduced this subject to the House on the very clear and able manner in which he had brought it forward. There was a universal feeling in the country that this punishment of flogging ought to be abolished. He was not a military man, and was, therefore, perhaps, not competent to speak on this matter, as it regarded discipline; but he could, at all
 231
 Lord Althorp  said, that it would not be just to deprive Mr. Ellis of all power of making a choice. He did not apprehend that Mr. Ellis had any wish to refuse the acceptance of an office, and from what he knew of his right hon. friend he was perfectly certain that it was his anxious desire to be employed. He had already stated, that his Majesty's Government would take the earliest opportunity to give him some employment.
 Lord Althorp  would assure the hon. Member, that it was the wish of his Majesty's Government to give Mr. Ellis employment, and that their anxious desire was to find out some employment for a Gentleman of whose abilities they entertained the highest opinion.
 Lord Althorp : The question raised by the right hon. Gentleman who spoke last
 218
 Mr. Mark Philips  said, he voted last year in favour of the Motion of the hon. member for Lincolnshire, for the partial repeal of the Malt-tax, and he did so in perfect consistency with the vote he had previously given in favour of the Motion of the hon. member for Worcester, calling upon the House to appoint a Select Committee to take into consideration the propriety of establishing a Property-tax. He maintained, therefore, the integrity of the vote he had given in favour of the establishment of a Property-tax, feeling, at the same time, the importance of the relief which the removal of the Malt-tax would afford, both to the consumer and the agriculturist; but when he came to analyse the division which took place on the Motion for the repeal of the Malt-tax, he found that, out of sixty-six county Members who supported that Motion, there were only twenty-four of the same Members who were prepared to give the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, an equivalent in return, by supporting the Motion of the hon. member for Worcester. Under these circumstances, he felt it impossible, as the Representative of a great mercantile community, distinguished as that community always had been by the honour of its transactions between man and man, and the maintenance of private credit, and anxious as they were, and always would be, equally with himself, to maintain the public faith, he could not feel justified in supporting the Motion of the hon. member for Oldham. He was anxious to see the tax in question repealed, but he had not confidence in the feelings of the House, after the example of last Session, and was afraid, should he vote to give up the Malt-duty, that few of the Members would be in favour of a Property-tax, or a substantial equivalent for the remission of so large a mass of taxation. He deplored the present state of agricultural distress; but he thought
 299
 Mr. John Maxwell  did not rise to advocate the interests of the landowners and farmers, but, as the friend of the poor. He had, in common with many others, much regretted to find the noble Lord was rather disposed to extend relief from taxation to the fundholder, the stockjobber, and men who had large houses in and near the metropolis, through the medium of his House-tax, than to the agriculturists, who had proved their allegation of distress and discouragement before a Committee of that House. He should act on this occasion as he had on other similar occasions when voting with the hon. member for Middlesex, he had formed one of a very small minority. He had then voted conscientiously, and he had the happiness to find since, that that small minority had influenced the House so far that the majority had embraced the same opinion, and redeemed itself in public opinion. Things would not retrograde in the present
 300
 Mr. Curteis  said, it was unnecessary for him to dilate on a question that had been so recently discussed. If he could move an Amendment, he would propose, that from and after the 5th of April, 1835, half of the present duties on malt should be repealed. He could not, however, move an Amendment. He had been for many years an advocate for the repeal of these duties; but he thought the time was now come when they ought to take what they could obtain. The hon. member for Bridport (Mr. Warburton) had on a former occasion accused the agriculturists of wishing to put their hands into the pockets of the manufacturers; butt this was not surely the case, since the landed proprietors had been as forward as any in recommending the repeal of the tax on beer. The noble Lord said, no substitute had been proposed for this tax. He did not mean to go the length of the hon. Baronet (Sir William Ingilby), and tax persons going to gambling-houses, but he thought that a 1,000,000 l. l. l.
 Mr. Hutt  having presented a petition from certain tea-dealers and others in London, against the new Tea-duties,
 Mr. Crawford  rose to offer a few observations upon the petition. It was from the tea-dealers, brokers, and others in the City of London, interested in the tea-trade, praying that one uniform rate of duty might be imposed on all kinds of tea imported into the united kingdom. The petition claimed the serious attention of the House and the Government, not only on account of the number and respectability of the signatures attached to it, but from the vast importance of the subject, and the suggestions the petitioners had felt it to be their duty to submit to the House, which, in his opinion, involved considerations of the greatest importance to the Revenue of the country. The petitioners had no object inconsistent with the interest of the public Revenue, nor did they seek a reduction of the duty on their own account, or on the ground of conferring a benefit on the consumer of the article; but they sought protection against the fraud they apprehended would be committed, the evasion of duty which would necessarily take place, and the vexation which would be experienced by the operation of a system of rated duties imposed by the Bill, which passed with such inconsiderate rapidity through that House at the termination of the last Session. The duty paid upon public sales was ninety-six per cent upon the lowest class of tea, which was bohea, and 100 per cent upon all others, according to their value. The duty was assessed by an officer selected by the East-India Company, and the money was paid forthwith into the Exchequer, free from all deductions. That system appeared to him a most excellent one; but it had been admitted by common consent
 273 s. d. s. d. 274 
 
 s. d. s. d. 
 When bohea sold for 1 11 and congou for 2 1 
 The duty 96 per cent 1 10 and 100 per cent 2 1 
 The wholesale cost was 3 9 and 4 2 
 When bohea sold for 1 5 and congou for 1 7 
 The new duty 1 6 and 2 2 
 The wholesale cost was 2 11 and 3 9 s. d., s. d. s. d., s. d. 275
 Lord Althorp  said, he felt the petition to be one of the greatest importance, and one that deserved the serious consideration of the House. It was impossible to hear the very able speech that had just been addressed to the House without giving the hon. Gentleman credit for great knowledge of the subject. The graduated scale of duty which had been imposed by the Government was not with a view to force a change in the consumption of tea. The hon. Member was well aware that an  ad valorem 276
 Sir Robert Peel  said, there could scarcely be a subject of greater importance brought under the consideration of the House, than that which had been introduced by the presentation of this petition. The House was discussing what was to be the future duty, and the mode of levying it, on an article of general consumption, which yielded last year a revenue of 3,300,000 l. l. 277 l. l. s. d. ad valorem, s. d. s. 278 d. 
 
 Bohea 1,500,000 lbs. 
 Congou 5,654,000 
 
 In 1831, the finest bohea 3,300,000 lbs. 
 common congou tea 7,700,000 
 In 1832, the finest bohea 3,620,000 
 common congou 8,183,000 279 
 
 In 1833, the finest bohea 3,404,000 
 common congou 9,116,000 d. d. l., 280
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, although he was not prepared to go extensively into the different questions which had been put to him by the hon. Member, yet he could not but embrace with great pleasure the opportunity thus afforded him of referring as far as he could satisfactorily and distinctly to each of them. And first of all, he had to thank the hon. Member for having privately communicated to him his intention of putting the questions specifically on the present occasion. As to the success of the Negro Emancipation Bill, and whether it had answered the expectations of his Majesty's Government, his hon. friend was well aware, that the Act had not yet come into operation in any one of the Colonies, and it was, therefore, difficult to give any further answer than that contained in his Majesty's Speech, that so far as they could yet judge, they had every reason to form the most sanguine expectations of its ultimate success. With regard to Antigua, it was undoubtedly true that the Legislature had in progress a measure for doing away with apprenticeship altogether, and thereby to carry into effect emancipation on the 1st of August next. They waited, however, till they should ascertain from his Majesty's Government whether, in the event of such a Bill passing, the British Parliament would object to it as being in fact a variation from the original plan. He had no hesitation in assuring the inhabitants of Antigua, as indeed he had previously communicated by means of a circular letter, anticipating, in the case of some of the colonies, that measures of that nature would be proposed, that as they had the power of generally regulating and abridging its period, they had also the power of doing away with the apprenticeship altogether; but he hoped he had correctly expressed
 282 283 284
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  did not rise to enter into the discussion, but to entreat the House to show something like respect for their own proceedings. He trusted, that they would put an end to this most useless discussion, in which every topic was touched upon but that which really bore upon the question which they were called upon to consider, the expediency of repealing the Malt-tax. He would not follow the hon. member for Birmingham through the lamentations which he had expressed with respect to the restlessness of his (Mr. Stanley's) noble friend's pillow, and his sleeping in the bed with his victims; nor would he trouble the House with any observations upon war-rents, paper currency, and the other results of war which the hon. Member was so fond of dilating upon. He would, however, call the attention of the House to the position in which they stood with regard to this very question. They should bear in mind, that it was fully discussed no longer than a fortnight ago, and that they then determined, by the vote to which they came, that it would be utterly impossible for the Government to go on if it were deprived of so large a portion of revenue as that which the Malt-tax produced. But what was it that they were now called upon to do? Why, to reverse their former decision, and declare, that the repeal of the Malt-tax would be expedient, although it was not proposed that any other tax should be substituted in its stead. The question, he repeated, had already been settled; and if they were now to take the step they were called upon to take, the effect would be to derange the whole of the agricultural, manufacturing, and commercial interests of the country. The hon. Member would allow the Government to "make bricks," although he would deprive them of the straw necessary for the purpose. But, he would ask, whether the House of Commons would deal so unjustly with his Majesty's Ministers as to require them to carry on the business of the Government, and yet deny them the means of doing so? Without a re-
 303 Hon. Member: l.,
 Colonel Evans  said, that even if there had been no other ground for the Motion than the notoriety of the case which his hon. and learned friend had stated, that in itself was sufficient. It was impossible, under the known circumstances, not to conclude that a most material change had occurred in the relative position of the Powers of Europe, and, that in itself formed a  primâ facie 331 332 333
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, the right hon. Baronet, while he had professed in the course of his speech an earnest desire that the good understanding which happily existed between England and France should be continued, yet seemed at least to make it a matter of reproach that that subject should have been adverted to by his Majesty's Government with pleasure. He held it to be matter of congratulation that two countries the most powerful, the most enlightened, and, he would add, the most liberal, were engaged in bonds of such close and intimate union, and thus affording the prospect of a continuance of that good feeling which promised not only peace and security to themselves and to Europe, but which promised generally to ensure the maintenance and support of liberal principles. The right hon. Baronet had introduced—he knew not why, except, indeed, for the sake of conveying reflections on the conduct of France—the question of the occupation of Algiers. In what situation Algiers might be placed he knew not, nor would he enter upon the question further than to state, that he believed the possession of Algiers rested precisely in the same position as it did when the right hon. Baronet quitted office. Algiers and France stood in relation to each other precisely in the same position as they did prior to the late Ministers' retiring. And without entering any further into the question, he would express his belief that, if there was any one nation in Europe to which the possession of Algiers would be less advantageous, and its abandonment of greater benefit than another, that nation was France itself. Certain he
 342 343 344 345 346
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  rose to explain. It had been stated in the treaty, that no foreign ships of war were to be allowed to pass the Dardanelles, and upon inquiring whether Russian men of war were included in the words "foreign ships of war," the answer was decidedly the affirmative.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought, that the grant proposed was an exceedingly stingy one, and ought to have been much greater.
 Colonel Davies  said, he was not going to enter upon the question whether Ministers had conducted our foreign relations well or ill; but he would ask whether there was any more important consideration in our foreign polity than the preservation of the due balance of power in the cast of Europe? It was the duty of every prudent Ministry to watch the rapid growth which had for years been increasing, of the colossal power of Russia. Ever since the days of Catherine all the acts of chicane and subtle diplomacy had been directed to this darling object of grasping ambition. It was humiliating to reflect how this country had been outwitted by Russia in 1828, when a vote of thanks was proposed in that House, by Sir John Hobhouse, on account of the battle of Navarino. Then the Treaty of July, characterised as the salvation of the Turkish empire, and of the peace of Europe. And yet within two months, the Russian army was marching into the very heart of the Ottoman empire. He looked upon the blocking up of the Dardanelles less in an individual light, than as it formed a part of the system of Russian policy, which he generally deprecated.
 Mr. Aaron Chapman  was of opinion that in a commercial point of view Captain Ross's services were well worth the grant proposed. He regretted it was so small in amount.
 Mr. Cumming Bruce  had no wish to prolong the Debate, but was anxious merely to state to the House a few facts, which would show, that the agricultural interests of that part of the kingdom with which he was connected were now under great depression from the operation of the present system of taxation. In the first place, however, he must call the attention of the House to the comparison of the average prices of wheat now and at former periods; and he had taken the average price at present obtained in counties in the southern districts, as well as in the northern counties of Scotland. From the years 1829 to 1833, the lowest average was 51 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. s. d. s. s. s. s. s. s. 305 s. d. s. l, s, d. 306 l. s. d. l. d. d. l., l.
 Mr. Robinson , adverting to what took place relative to the Malt-tax, last Session, must say, that it was his opinion, that if hon. Gentlemen could see their way clearly, they would require little inducement to vote for the entire abolition of the Malt-tax. No matter how this tax was considered, it was alike onerous and injurious; but still he was not prepared to call upon the Government to sacrifice so large an amount of the revenue without furnishing an adequate substitute for it. It was, no doubt, the desire of the House to relieve the country of this particular burthen, if it could be done with safety to the public service. He thought it could be done, without the least risk, knowing, as he did, that all the difficulties under which the country laboured arose from the injudicious alterations which had been made from time to time in the currency. He was clearly of opinion, that there was one, and one only, remedy by which the country could be extricated from its present difficulties; but, then, that was a remedy the House was indisposed to adopt. The remedy to which he referred, it was his intention, on a future day, to submit
 304
 Mr. Sinclair  said, that as the hon. member for Oldham had intimated his determination to press this Motion to a division, he intended, as a volunteer, to go out in the forlorn hope, in order to show how anxious he was to relieve the landowners and farmers of this country from their distressing, if not desperate, condition. Two more years of the present low prices and heavy burthens would, in his opinion, complete the ruin of the agricultural interest, and consequently entail incalculable mischief upon the community. He had listened with great pleasure to the very able and lucid speech of the hon. Mover, who, in the graphic delineations of rural habits, and in just appreciations of the feeling of the working classes, exceeded all his contemporaries. He (Mr. Sinclair) rejoiced to find that hon. Gentleman assigning a due place to the landed proprietors and tenantry in the scale of relative importance. By many other persons they had been greatly undervalued, and their sufferings treated with indifference; but the sound reasoning of the hon. member for Oldham, and the facts by which his own experience and intimate acquaintance with the peasantry enabled him to illustrate all his assertions, were entitled to, and would meet with, far greater atten-
 298
 Mr. George Frederick Young  thought, that the second person in command of the expedition was quite as much entitled to reward as Captain Ross, and with a view of enabling his Majesty to bestow on him such reward, he begged to move as an Amendment that, instead of 5,000 l., l.
 Mr. Aglionby  thought it would be far preferable to refer the matter to a Select Committee. The House would then see for what services they were voting, and would regulate the amount of their vote accordingly.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  agreed with the hon. and, learned Member, and, as an officer, considered that Captain Ross would be more honoured by having his case brought before a Committee than he would be by any vote or grant they might come to in his favour at that hour, (two o'clock in the morning). As to the men that served under the gallant Captain, they had only had their bare bargain; and he would say in the name of the sailors in his Majesty's service, that these seamen were as well entitled to be rewarded as Captain Ross himself. He thought that his hon. and learned friend who moved the Resolution, would do more justice to Captain Ross, and his officers and crew, by altering his Motion for a grant of 5,000 l. l.
 Mr. Childers  said, that as he represented a large agricultural county, he was not willing to give a silent vote on the present subject. He did not believe, that a repeal of the Malt-tax would do anything like the good that some persons said it would, and that it would not increase the consumption of barley. The hon. Member read a numerical statement in order to prove, that in certain years when the duty on malt was reduced, its consumption had not increased, but, on the contrary, that in some instances it had been diminished by a third. The poor would not be relieved to anything like the extent supposed, because they would not brew their own beer. He was satisfied that there was as little chance of the poorer classes in the agricultural districts returning to the practice of brewing their own beer, as there was of their knitting their own stockings. The hon. Member quoted from the evidence of Mr. Thurnall given before the Committee on the Beer Bill, to show that it was not practicable for the labourers to brew their own beer. It was proved, that a beer-shopkeeper could never enter into competition with the great beer brewer. Hence he inferred, that as the private brewer brewed for his own use a much less quantity of beer than the beer-shopkeeper, it would never be worth the private or home-brewer's while to brew at all. The question having already been disposed of by so large a majority, in favour of maintaining the tax, he could see no just reason that had been brought forward why the Legislature should be called on again to interfere, and should, therefore, vote against the Motion.
 Mr. Sheil , interrupting the noble Viscount said, if Great Britain were at war
 325
 Mr. Sheil , in rising to bring this matter before the attention of the House, observed, that having agreed on a former occasion to postpone his Motion in consequence of the pressure of other business, he considered himself so much the more entitled to attention at present, particularly as no other business pressed before the Easter recess. If it should be asked why he had introduced a subject so important to the attention of the House, his answer would be that, before he exercised the right vested in every Member of that House, he had taken care to make himself acquainted with it. He should at once proceed, without any preliminary observation, to the statement of the facts, incidents, and documents, on which he should ground his Motion. In the autumn of 1831, Ibrahim Pacha marched into Syria; on the 3rd of December in that year, Acre was besieged; it fell in May 1832. Ibrahim Pacha advanced to Damascus, which was taken on the 14th of June. On the 7th of July, the fate of Syria was decided by the battle at Homs. It was easy to foresee these successes, and to anticipate the victory of Egyptian discipline over Turkish disorganization. Was it not most strange that at this period we had no Ambassador at Constantinople? There was no Ambassador from the English or French Governments. General Guilleminot had been French Ambassador during the Polish war; but, in consequence of his interference in urging the Porte to take advantage of that crisis, he was removed by Sebastiani, at the instance of Count Pozzo di Borgo. Turkey applied to England in this emergency for aid. This most important fact had been admitted by the noble Lord in that House. That assistance was refused. Even Russia concurred in recommending, that succour should be afforded. Russia calculated, of course, on the refusal. Naval aid was all that was asked. It was obvious that it would have been sufficient to deter Ibrahim from advancing. He marched on, and forced
 308 309 Morning Herald 310 Morning Herald, 311 Augsburg Gazette, 312 St. Petersburg Gazette 313 Globe, 314 Allgemeine Zeitung, 315 316 317
 Mr. Sheil : The treaty was offensive and defensive. By the Treaty of the 8th of July, Turkey was bound to assist Russia. Then, if England was at war with Russia, Turkey must exclude our ships from the Dardanelles. Was not that the interpretation of the treaty?
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  proceeded—Where, he would ask, was Russia most vulnerable? Certainly in the Black Sea, the great resort of her ships of war. But, in the event of a war, in stepped Turkey, and said, "We'll throw the shield of our mantle around you, and protect you where you are most vulnerable." If it should be the case that the Dardanelles were now rendered impregnable by the aid of Russian engineers, would this not be of itself a violation of the treaty? Would it not amount to an act of cowardice on the part of Russia? But if this were so, if fortifications had been carried on on the land side, as well as on the Straits, it was impossible that any ship could pass without the permission of Russia. It was the duty of this country to guard itself against the domineering power of Russia, who was in fact aiming a vital blow at the existence of every Power in Europe. Nay, not content with this, she contemplated the overthrow of our possessions in the East. By her inroads into Persia (inroads unopposed by us) she had obtained the keys of that empire, as she had recently obtained those of Turkey. The fact was, that the growing power and desire of dominion manifested ought long since to have been put a stop to; and it would have been put a stop to long ago, had England and France acted with the necessary firmness. With respect
 348
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, with respect to the treaty of the 8th of July, the House must come to the conclusion that it was not satisfactory, else why refuse to produce it? At the time when the noble Lord was addressing the House on this
 347
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson , said, that he should be extremely unwilling to resist the inclinations of the House. He was most anxious that the services of Captain Ross should be better understood by the House, though he thought that he had already fully explained to them the great services the gallant Captain had rendered to geographical science in solving one great question that had hitherto been undecided. Under the present circumstances he had no objection to withdraw his Motion in favour of a Committee, and he should, therefore, when the Speaker resumed the Chair, give notice of a Motion
 355
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  rose to bring forward his motion for a grant of 5,000 l. 350 l.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson , though one of the agricultural class, and a friend to its interests and prosperity, would, nevertheless, vote against the Motion of the hon. member for Oldham. Hon. Members talked of being consistent in their votes, but he, for one, preferred to vote in consistency with his judgment; and, therefore, could not consent to repeal the Malt-tax till the means were devised of making good the deficiency to the revenue. He doubted not the hon. member for Oldham could find immediate means to dispense with that tax in a reduction of the interest of the National Debt. [Mr.  Thomas Attwood:
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  was not prone to feel despondingly as to time number of the minority with which he should vote. He had reasons to believe it would not be so contemptible in number, and certainly not as respected the influence or weight of character of the hon. Members who would be found in the same ranks with himself, supporting the Motion of the hon. member for Oldham. He was not for breaking faith with any class of his fellow-subjects. No man looked with more heartfelt hatred on all and any attempts made to break faith with the public. He could have wished the hon. member for Kirkcudbright would have embraced within the sphere of his anxiety to prevent breaches of public faith the embarrassed landowner, the ruined farmer, the beggared labourer on his farm. It was absurd to hear a party in that House talk of their anxiety to keep the public faith. It was but a bastard faith they kept to a certain mass of metal, whilst they broke faith to the living masses of men, their families, and their hopes. He would fearlessly ask the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) whether he did not himself know, that the farmer, the landowner, and he might almost have added, many classes of mere agricultural labourers, had lost three-fourths of their income or wages of their labour by the great alterations or the gradual reduction of remunerating prices for their property or for their labour upon the land? The House had borne a very culpable part in one of the greatest and most crying cruelties and fraud that this or any other country had ever witnessed; and it was high time it should make some reparation to those classes for their delusion, to call it by no harsher name. He only wished that a little of the same unpalatable medicine which the agricultural classes had been drenched with should be in fairness given to the rest. He had hoped the noble Lord who had a heart beating in his bosom, and a sound head he believed, too, would before this have found out, that the time was come when these things must be altered. He wished to put the landlord, the farmer, and the labourer
 301 l. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. s. d. s. d. d. 302
 Mr. F. Buxton  took that opportunity, seeing the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary of the Colonies, in his place, of asking a question or two which related to a subject of very great importance, and was deeply interesting to many both in and out of that House. He wished to know whether the great experiment of last year, with reference to negro emancipation, had, as far as it had hitherto proceeded, satisfied the reasonable expectations of Government? A Report had been circulated, that very important intelligence had been received from Demerara, manifesting the most cordial and conciliatory spirit on the part of the masters of slaves, and exhibiting at the same time the best disposition on the part of the negroes. It was also reported that in the island of Antigua the House of Assembly had passed an Act for immediate emancipation, without the intervention of the term of apprenticeship. With regard to Jamaica, he had also heard, indeed he had seen a letter from that quarter to the effect, that but for some unaccountable misapprehension, that the parent Legislature was anxious that the apprenticeship clause should not be dispensed with, they would have followed the same course, by passing an Act for immediate abolition. He was anxious to know whether Government had received any official information upon these points? There was only another thing to which he would allude. There had been a strong apprehension, he believed, in many instances,
 281
 Mr. Cobbett  rose to offer to the House, with very great submission to its better judgment, a Motion, in the following words—"That from and after the 5th October next, all Duties on Malt shall cease and determine." To make such a proposition without reasons given, would be very presumptuous in any man, but to state all the reasons would require more time than he was in the habit of consuming in that House, and much more time than he should like to consume on the present occasion. He would, therefore, bring his observations into as small a compass as possible. Before he proceeded to state the divers grounds for repealing this tax, it was necessary for him to state something as to the number of the nation which would be affected by the Repeal of the Malt-tax. It had been represented, that the agricultural part of the community was comparatively very small—that it was quite insignificant as contrasted with the manufacturing population. The hon. member for Middlesex had recently said, that this was a nation of manufacturers,
 285 286 287 l. l. s. l. l. 288 s. s. s. s. s. d. s. d. s. 289 290 291 292
 Sir Edward Codrington  said, he would give his cordial support to the Motion.
 Sir Edward Codrington  said, that with
 349
 Mr. Henry Lytton Bulwer  seconded the Motion, and trusted that the House would insist upon the production of papers, which, if they were what they ought to be, would give the House and the nation at large that important and interesting information which was so much wanted. He did not altogether, in considering this question, lay so much stress upon the
 318
 Sir James Graham  said, that as an individual Member of the House he would support the vote, and he would do so on the ground that every individual composing the expedition, with the single exception of Captain Ross, had already been rewarded for their services by the Admiralty. To the seamen the Admiralty had
 354
 Sir Robert Inglis  regretted, that he felt himself called upon to make any opposition to a Motion of this kind, nor should he do so were it not that it involved a principle. He was not satisfied with the part taken by the Government in this business. If Captain Ross were in truth deserving of a reward it was the duty of Government to come forward and propose it. The Motion seemed, as it now stood, to be the act of a private individual. It was true, indeed, that the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) said that the Government concurred in the proposition; but in place of giving to the Crown the grace and favour of such a proposal, the noble Lord admitted a private individual in no way connected with the naval service, to bring it forward. This, however, might be considered a mere matter of form; but it involved an important principle. A person who wore the King's uniform should not apply for reward through a private individual. He should expect his reward from the public at the recommendation of the Sovereign. During the whole time of his absence on this expedition Captain Ross was receiving half-pay as Post Captain in the navy. He must, therefore, be considered as still in the public service. A Motion of this kind should not be thrown out to be scrambled for in the House. It should have been brought forward officially by one of his Majesty's Ministers. The House had no means of knowing what were the merits of Captain Ross, or what he had done. Perhaps his right hon. friend (Sir James Graham), being at the head of the Admiralty, and having, of course, seen his papers, was the only person who could tell what he had done. Reference had been made to a voyage of Captain Ross in 1818. This voyage was
 352
 Sir Robert Peel  wished the House clearly to ascertain the real grounds on which they were about, as he now believed they were, to bestow a grant upon Captain Ross. Was it in consideration of his services, or out of respect for his character and admiration of that chivalrous spirit he was alleged to have manifested? If in consideration of his services, he thought they should have been previously laid in detail before the House, so that they might know exactly what they were. On the other hand, if the vote was to be agreed to out of respect for the character of Captain Ross, and admiration of his chivalry, he feared there would be many equally strong claims for similar grants. He thought that the seamen and others who had shared the dangers of the expedition with Captain Ross ought to have shared the reward, and in order to have clearly ascertained what those actual services were, he regretted much the hon. and learned Member had not moved for a Committee of Inquiry instead of at once proposing a grant of money. This would have relieved them from the dangerous precedent which he feared they were about establishing by adopting the course proposed by the hon. and learned Member.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, would have made a speech much more satisfactory to his mind, if the noble Lord had said, that acting on his own responsibility as a Minister of the Crown, he had thought it his duty to refuse the papers called for, without assigning any other reason for that refusal than, that in his opinion their production would be injurious to the public service. He wished the noble Lord had acted upon the principle of the advice once given by Lord Mansfield to a military governor of one of our West-India Islands, who had to pronounce his judgment on some cases in his character of Chancellor of the Colony—"Give your decision," said the noble Lord, "but by no means trust yourself with explaining the reasons on which you decision is founded." If the noble Lord had taken that advice, and had abstained from giving his reasons for refusing the papers called for by the hon. and learned Member, he would have done much better than by making a speech. The noble Lord had complimented the hon. and learned Gentleman's speech as eloquent, ingenious, and humorous; there was yet another epithet, that he might have bestowed upon it, for he might have called it an unanswered speech. Whether it was unanswerable or not he would not pretend to decide, but certainly it was left unanswered. The noble Lord said, it was not fair to call upon his Majesty's Government to give the House information on these pending negotiations, and produce the last despatch, to see if it were properly answered. But what had been the course taken by the House? Had it pressed for information? He must say, that never had any representative body been left more in the dark than that House on foreign affairs, and never did one show more forbearance. Why, was it not notorious, that the knowledge, imperfect as it was, which we had obtained of these important matters had been gleaned from debates in the French Chamber of Deputies, and from extracts from foreign newspapers? Was this a state in which to leave the representatives of the people of this country on matters in which the
 334 Palmerston: 335 336 Palmerston casus fœderis 337 338 "Otium Divos rogat in patenti Prensus Ægæo, simul atra nubes Condidit Lunam, neque certa fulgent Sidera nautis." otium, 339 340 341
 Mr. Hutt  had formerly presented a Pe-
 351 l.
 Sir William Ingilby  thought, they ought to bring the question once more to an
 295 296
 Lord Althorp  said, that the question which the hon. member for Oldham now brought forward, had been decided so short a time since, that it could be hardly expected, that the House could adopt such a change of opinion as would be implied if it agreed to the Motion of the hon. Member. The hon. Member had argued, in the first place, that there ought to be no Malt-tax; and one of his arguments was, that it would be better if farmers and their labourers drank their beer in their own houses. There was no doubt of the truth of this, and the House, on this argument, would agree with the hon. Member. Most people would, no doubt, be the better, if the taxes were removed which pressed upon them. But the question the House had to determine was, whether, in the present state of the finances of the country, it was possible to reduce between 4,000,000 l. l. 293 294
 Lord Althorp  again moved the Order of the Day. On the question that the Speaker leave the Chair,
 Lord Althorp  was inclined to believe that the hon. Baronet correctly explained the motives which induced Captain Ross to undertake his expedition, when he said it was for the recovery of his own reputation, and it was owing to his Majesty's Government entertaining that opinion that they had declined coming forward to propose a grant for the purpose of rewarding him. It might then be asked why in such a case they had recommended the Crown to consent to the presental of Captain Ross's petition? To such a question, supposing it to be asked, he (Lord Althorp) would reply, that, considering the feeling of the country to be in favour of rewarding Captain Ross, his Majesty's Ministers would have been acting a most ungracious part had they, by recommending the Crown not to consent to the presenting, of the Petition, prevented a discussion of the subject in the House of Commons. Although, however, he thought the Government would not have been justified in recommending the grant to the House on the ground that the expedition was not undertaken by order of his Majesty's Government, he was disposed as an individual Member of that House to say that, considering the feelings of the country, they would be perfectly justified in acceding to the Motion; and such being his opinion, he was prepared, in the result of a division, to give it his support.
 Viscount Palmerston : The treaty did not apply to merchant vessels at all. The words, specifically, were "ships of war," not merchant ships. At the same time, he did not mean to say, that under its provisions merchant vessels might not, in effect, be practically excluded from the Black Sea. He did not mean to say, that that treaty had been viewed by the Government with satisfaction; or that it was a treaty with reference to which the British Government had not expressed its dissatisfaction;—but he must say, that the assurances and explanations which it had received from the contracting parties to that treaty greatly tended to remove its objections. Although it was a treaty to which the Government of this country would do well to direct its watchful attention, still he was inclined to think, that, if this country pursued that course which alone was consistent with its dignity—if it acted with
 326 327 328 329 330
 Viscount Palmerston , in replying to the speech of the hon. and learned member for Tipperary, did certainly not mean to complain of the manner in which he had brought this subject before the House; because nothing could be more good-humoured. The hon. and learned Member said, that as the House had got through most of the Estimates, and as there was nothing particular to do before the Easter
 319 prima facie 320 321 Sheil: 322 323 Sheil Sheil 324 casus fœderis
 Viscount Palmerston  continued: The Treaty of July related solely to ships of war. By the Treaty of 1809, England bound herself, that so long as Turkey was at peace, British ships of war should not assume the privilege or passing up and down these straits, except on special permission in particular cases. By the Treaty of July no difference was made between the ships of war of Russia, and those of England, in the event of those two countries being at war. By the Treaty of 1809 it was declared, that the ancient usage of the Turkish Empire being to close the straits against the ships of war of all Powers, they were to be closed equally against those of Russia, which might wish to come out, and those of other Powers which might wish to pass up.
 Lord Sandon  begged the hon. and learned Gentleman to submit the case to a Select Committee, since in that way he would best consult the feelings of the gallant Captain.
 Mr. Walker  said, for many years the duties on tea in America were divided into five classes, varying from twelve to fifty cents. He wished to know, whether those duties were abolished in consequence of fraud: and he thought it desirable to have some information on the subject before adopting a scale of rated duties here.
 Sir Robert Inglis  rose to submit to the House the Motion of which he had given notice, for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the origin and present state of a lottery
 402 403 404 ad miscricordiam
 Mr. Sinclair  said, that upon a subject so immediately referring to Scotland, where lotteries were so generally deprecated, he felt it his duty to second the Motion of the hon. Baronet. He had himself much regretted to hear propositions suggested to the House for the revival of lotteries, for the advancement of either public or private works. Rather than see such a course adopted he should hope that measures would be taken by the Legislature to prevent any participation by the people of this country even in foreign lotteries.
 Mr. Bish  said, that as his character had been in some degree involved in the question before the House, he begged to state that he knew no more of the Bill which had been alluded to than did the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair. He
 405 406 l l l 407
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that the hon. Member had accused him of violating his word. With respect to the engagement which he contracted with the hon. Member, having thought that something of this kind would probably come before the House, he had come down with copies of the correspondence which passed between himself and the hon. Member on the subject. The hon. Baronet read the extract of a letter, to show that he had only bound himself not to originate the question at a particular time, but that he put in his claim to be heard at a future time.
 Mr. Roebuck  did not know who had committed the offence, but all that the hon. member for Oxford had to do was, to substantiate the fact that an offence had been committed. It appeared, however, to him, that the House would trench upon the province of the Law-officers of the Crown if it proceeded to examine into this point. Lotteries by the common law were illegal, and therefore required a distinct Act of Parliament to make it lawful to engage in a lottery. But this was also illegal by Act of Parliament, and he would refer, to prove his assertion, to the wording of the Act itself. The hon. Member quoted the Act to show, that it only authorized the dividing the property into lots. Under these circumstances, he should vote with the hon. member for Oxford.
 Mr. Warburton  would not have mentioned in that place anything that had come to his knowledge in a private capacity relative to Mr. Monteith; but having a place which brought no emolument with it whatever, that of one of the Exchequer Loan Commissioners, he had occasion to meet the gentlemen who conducted the undertaking. Now, this gentleman, with one or two others, had come forward as guarantees to the Government for the repayment of an advance of Exchequer-bills. Now he thought that in this fact there was a good reason for his hon. friend's persisting in his Motion. As Shakspeare, who was a player, had said "All the world's a stage," so the hon. member for Leominster said "All the world's a lottery." As to the morality of lotteries, hon. Gentlemen should recollect the times when lotteries existed, to be able to form a judgment upon it. These held out a temptation to servants, and persons of small means, to invest their little savings in the purchase of a share of a lottery-ticket, instead of laying them up in a savings-bank. With regard to the question before the House, he thought facts enough had been adduced to show that inquiry ought to be made. Before he sat down he must observe that he had heard, shortly after the Bill was passed, that a lottery was to grow out of it; and he warned a gentleman who, from being connected with the Government, might have an influence over the promoters of the Bill, to take care that no lottery was established.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, it was impossible for the Government to guard against the manner in which a money lottery had been
 409
 Mr. Edward Romilly  said, that an inquiry ought to take place. It was proper to inquire if the Act was improperly obtained, or if the clause was improperly introduced. If money were taken in this way out of the pockets of the people, it would be a species of State swindling. That money, if wanted for State exigences, might be drawn from their pockets by a direct tax.
 Lord Althorp  said, he should not object to the Motion.
 Mr. O'Connell  had read the Act with great attention before any notice had been taken of the power it gave, and he saw nothing about a lottery in it. The Law-officers of the Crown were certainly quite blameless in allowing the Bill to pass, but the best way to acquire information on the subject was to look at the Act itself. This, besides giving the power to divide the property into 3,000 shares, permitted that an unlimited number of additional shares should be created, when the original shares were hardly worth anything, and permitted the decision of everything relating to the shares to depend upon the shareholders, whose vote was to be final. As to the immorality of a lottery, to be sure as a species of gaining it was immoral, but he did not really mean to preach sermons in that House. What was stock-jobbing?—was that not gaming? There were many individuals who made their fortunes by a good lie. The fluctuation of a-half per cent. made many wealthy men. The rumours of a war—a bloody insurrection—might place a man in possession of a large estate. But on this point conscience was seared. Should, however, such a thing as a lottery come before the House, hon. Members would move heaven and—worse regions, to put
 410
 Mr. Curteis  observed, that, when gambling was going on to such an extent as it notoriously was amongst the higher classes, it rather appeared to him that the House would be straining at the gnat after having swallowed the camel, if it should now exercise its power to put an end to this Glasgow lottery, the more especially as it was well known that tickets in any of the foreign lotteries might be obtained by persons who were so disposed. He contended that it would be unjust to put an immediate end to a speculation in which so many persons held shares. He begged to assure the House he was not of the number: he had no ticket.
 Sir Robert Inglis  took occasion to remark that he should not oppose the nomination of Mr. Bish on the Committee, although he had abstained from putting down his name, as by his own statement it appeared that he was a contractor. It would be most likely that the Committee would be happy to avail themselves of Mr. Bish's evidence as a witness.
 The Solicitor General , in rising to move for "a Select Committee to consider the present state of the Law of Libel, and to report their opinion to the House," said, that in bringing under the consideration of the House a subject of no common importance, he begged to have it understood at the outset, that he was not about to indulge in any fanciful theory of his own, with respect to the Law of Libel or propose any extensive alterations of the law. He was only anxious to have the question fairly brought before the House, and to have such changes as might be deemed necessary or expedient made with the advice and by the assistance of a Select Committee. The start-
 411 412 413 414 415 ex-officio 416 417 418
 Mr. O'Connell  did not rise to object to the Motion, on the contrary, he was glad that this most important subject was to be brought under the consideration of a Committee for deliberate consideration. If the Motion he had made, and the Bill he had introduced upon the subject, and which had been for some time before the House, had acted in any degree (he did not mean to say it did) as a stimulus to the Government, he should certainly feel proud that he had made an effort so far successful as to induce Ministers to take up a subject of such deep and important interest. From the very clear and able statement of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, one thing, at least, was fully and satisfactorily proved—that nothing could be more frightful than the present Law of Libel. It was, indeed, a most atrocious law, whether they regarded its fiscal arrangements, the judicial interpretation put upon Statutes, or the want of definition of what constituted a libel. It was a late that was almost unendurable, and, indeed, that would not be endurable at all if it were not that its very atrocity prevented men froth having recourse to it for redress. No man thought of having recourse to the Libel-law in vindication of his character, and thus it was, that the very severity of the law enabled persons to violate it with the most perfect impunity, and the dissemination of libels became a source of uninterrupted emolument. That was the necessary result of such a law. The hon. Gentleman had fully and very accurately stated the defects of the law, but he had held out but little consolation in the hope of improvement. The mind of the hon. and learned Gentleman appeared to be more anxious for the repression of slander (an object sufficiently desirable in itself) than for the establishment of free discussion. That appeared to be the leading idea in the hon. and learned Gentleman's mind; and he (Mr. O'Connell) regretted, that he had not given more attention to the important question of establishing the right of free discussion. It was of the last importance that the conduct of public servants should be open to fair and impartial examination, and this he thought should have occupied the principal portion of the hon. and learned Gentleman's attention. The publication of falsehood should be punished, as should also the publication of truth in some cases, though very rarely,
 420 l l 421 422 ex-officio ex-officios
 Mr. O'Connell  thought the question one entirely of principle, for no Christian sect ought to be called on to pay for the religion of another Christian sect. It was only the principle of common sense and of common justice. He was sorry the Universities were not open to the Dissenters. In the University of Dublin they had a case in point. Catholics had admission there for some years, and Dissenters were admitted long previously; and yet the Established Church had still all their usual advantages from that institution. The exclusion from the Universities was a superfluous insult to the Protestant Dissenters. These exclusions ought to be done away with, and if the Dissenters would only act for themselves, and make use out of the House of their influence so as
 398
 Mr. Halcombe  rose to bring forward his promised Motion for a further inquiry into the proceedings at the general election for the city of Coventry, in 1832. He had been for some time anxious to bring this subject forward at an earlier period of the evening, but he had found it impossible to do so. His notice was of long standing, and he had received the assurance of the right hon. the Secretary-at-War, that he would concur in any measure which would protect the people of Coventry from such
 426 s 427 428 429
 Sir Oswald Mosley  said, that the reason why no further proceedings had taken place was, that there was no earthly reason for them. It appeared that the riot had arisen from one party taking forcible possession of the booth; and it was natural that the other should resist. The Committee did not think this a sufficient ground for further proceedings. At the last election, booths had been fixed in different parts of the city, and no such scenes had taken place.
 Mr. Henry L. Bulwer  said, that if he thought he held his seat in the House by a voluntary participation in such scenes as the hon. and learned Member had described, he should walk out of it without offering a word in his defence. The hon. and learned Member who had vindicated the purity of Stafford, and the tranquillity of Warwick, had, however, read the evidence  ex-parte
 Sir George Grey  was surprised that the hon. and learned Member, professing that
 430
 Mr. Mark Philips  attached (in accordance with the Report of the Committee) the blame to the Sheriffs, as returning officers, for not taking necessary precautions. He did not see, after the evidence of the peaceable election which had taken place in April, and the precautions established by the Reform Bill, any necessity for special legislation with regard to that borough.
 Mr. Wynn  objected to the decision of a Select Committee being re-opened. He regretted that a Report, conveying such strong censure as this, should have been allowed to be on the Table of the House without being taken up, and the returning officers called to the Bar. If the House passed over the gross violence which had taken place at the election for this city, it would be as injurious to the cause of purity of election as if it had passed over instances of gross corruption.
 Mr. Pryme  trusted the Solicitor-General would reconsider his opinions with respect to criminal informations. They were in his view a most unsatisfactory mode of proceeding. To prove that, he would mention a case. A magistrate had been charged with punishing with undue and, indeed, cruel severity, three little children for stealing vegetables. Well, the fact was, the Magistrate had punished but two little children, and therefore, he made an affidavit that the charge was untrue, and obtained a criminal information, although the charge was substantially true.
 Lord John Russell  rose for the purpose of addressing a few observations to the House in reply to what had fallen from the hon. member for Leeds as to the manner in which Government had received the complaints of the Dissenters. The hon. Member said, and said truly, that the Dissenters were the warm friends and supporters of civil and religious liberty. He acknowledged with pleasure, that he had always found them ready to support principles of Liberty and aiding those who were her friends. But it would be in the recollection of the House, that when he and his noble and hon. friends were out of office, it had been their constant aim to protect the Dissenters in the enjoyment of their just rights, or assert their claim from time to time in that House to all the immunities, privileges, and liberties, enjoyed by the rest of his Majesty's subjects, and that since they had been in power they had endeavoured to realise, as far as they were able, the promises they had made, and the expectations they had held out to the great body of Protestant Dissenters. The present Ministers were the friends of the just claims of the Dissenters, because they were the friends of civil and religious liberty, and they had neither been impelled formerly in what they had done, nor were they impelled now in what they were about to do, for the relief of the Dissenters, by what the hon. and learned member for Dublin had alluded to,—namely, by the fear of menaces on the part of that body—any more than they had been, in another instance, deterred by the fear of menaces on the part of their constituents, from urging the claims and advocating the cause of that religious liberty of which the hon. and learned member for Dublin himself now enjoyed the benefit. A great portion of the Dissenters, a large portion of the people of England, were opposed to the Catholic question, but the Members of the present Government supported the Catholic claims, as they bad supported, and did support, the claims of the Dissenters, because they were both founded upon the two great and leading principles of civil and religious liberty. Their main object through life had been the advo-
 399 400
 Mr. Hawes  had taken some pains to inform himself on the proportional qualities of tea sold in the retail and wholesale line; the result was, that he thought the consumption of congou tea exceeded the consumption of the cheap teas. The annual importation of teas was nearly 33,000,000 lbs., of which 21,000,000 lbs. were congou; so that two-thirds of the revenue were yielded by the latter. He found, that in Birmingham and in Manchester one chest of bohea was consumed, while there were nine of congou; in Plymouth and Devonport, the ratio was one chest of bohea to fourteen of congou. That information he had not from one but from many tea-dealers. He would direct the attention of the members for Ireland to the fact, that one chest of bohea was only imported into that kingdom for seven of congou. In America, the scale of duties was varied, while in France it was fixed;
 365 s
 Mr. Charles Grant  could not admit,
 381
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that that probably would be the case in the present year, because the East-India Company would be obliged to sell their stock of teas; but what the duty would be in another year it was impossible to foretell. He would say to those Gentlemen who were inclined to adopt the principles of his Majesty's Government, but who, at the same time, wished a change in the scale, "Wait till the experiment has been tried; and if it does not succeed, then bring your Amendment forward."
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  thought it was not quite fair to discuss the subject of Tea-duties on the presentation of a petition, but as so many Gentlemen had thought fit to do so, he must say something on the subject. The hon. Member who had just sat down, had suggested a plan which he could assure that hon. Gentleman was not a novelty, for it had been maturely considered by the Government. The hon. Member had a perfect right to consider his intended plan, and other hon. Members had a perfect right to consider and propose their plans; but he thought the House ought, in looking at the subject, specially to consider the principle on which the particular plan was grounded which had been proposed by his Majesty's Government, and which had been brought under the consideration of the House by the petition of his hon. friend. It was with reference to that, that he should advert to the three schemes which had been alluded to, namely, of one single duty, of two or three different rates, and of  ad valorem 376 ad valorem Cries of No, no 377 d d 378 s s
 Mr. Poulett Thomson : He was not aware that the hon. Member would have presented his petition at the morning sitting, as some petitions had been set down
 379
 Mr. Baines  regretted, that any objection should exist to the admission of Dissenters to the Universities. He could not conceive why they should not be allowed to participate in the benefits of these Universities, seeing they belonged to the same community. He could not forget, that there was a time when the Protestants themselves were interdicted from education in these Universities. He could not forget, that the representatives of the Universities at that period might have risen up and declared that no Protestant ought to be admitted. Happily those days had passed away, and he trusted more liberal days had arrived. He hoped much from
 396
 Mr. Divett  rose to express his satisfaction with the assurances which had been given to the House on this subject by the noble Lord. He hailed that declaration with the utmost satisfaction, and would willingly leave the subject in the hands of his Majesty's Government. He would, with the leave of the House, withdraw the Motion.
 Mr. Divett , in bringing forward the Motion of which he had given notice at the close of the last Session of Parliament, and which he had felt it his duty to renew this Session, relative to the payment of Church-rates, felt that, as an inexperienced Member, he must claim the indulgence of the House; and he was sure that that indulgence would be afforded to him, as it was to all those who seldom trespassed at any length. When he first directed his attention to the compulsory payment of Church-rates, he had strong feelings on the subject of their impolicy; and in the course of the last few months those feelings had been increased ten-fold, by what he had seen passing in every part of the country. He was quite aware that it might be said, that he was hardly justified in bringing this matter forward after the notice which had been given by the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He could assure the noble Lord most sincerely, that he was actuated by no want of courtesy towards the Government, of which the noble Lord was a member. With the friendly disposition he entertained towards that Government, he could not show any feeling of distrust; but circumstances had lately arisen which made him anxious to procure that relief, which he considered the grievances of the Dissenters essentially demanded. It was time, that the opinion of this House should be so decidedly expressed upon the subject, as to enable it to bring it to a satisfactory and final conclusion. He might here state, that the subject which he was going to bring under the consideration of the House, was exclusively that of Church-rates; but it was connected with many other of the grievances under which the Dis-
 382 l 383 l l l l l l l l 384 385 l l l l l 386 387
 Mr. Grote  said, this question was evidently one of fact only, for throughout all the debate, the speakers had agreed in principle. From inquiries which he had made among persons connected with the trade, he had found, that there was a great proportion of congou sent from London to Ireland and Scotland, where scarcely any bohea at all was consumed.
 368
 Mr. Lyall  must assert with his hon. colleague (Mr. Crawford), that there would he some difficulty in relation to the duties on congou and bohea teas. He had inquired particularly at the India House, of those persons under whose management the teas had been placed, and they uniformly concurred in opinion, that the rated duties would lead to fraud and confusion, more especially from the difficulty of discriminating between the lowest quality of teas rated at the high duty, and the best quality of those rated at the low duty—between ordinary congous and best bohea—the former being rated at 2 s d s d d d ad valorem 364 s d s d d d s d s d i. e s d ad valorem
 Mr. Robinson , who resumed the Debate on the Tea-duties, said, the subject contained in the Petitions was one of such great importance to the country as to justify a deviation from the usual course adopted by the House to avoid discussion on petitions. He begged to say, that he dissented from the inferences in both of the petitions. With regard to that from Hull, he would dispose of it without comment, because it was only signed by one person; but the petition from the City of London was of a very different character, and, in every respect, deserving of consideration, not only as regarded the respectability of those who had signed it, but also on account of the reasons which had been urged by the hon. member for London (Mr. Crawford) in support of its prayer. The petitioners prayed that, instead of the scale of duties which had been fixed upon tea by the Bill of last year, there should be one uniform rate of duty upon all sorts of tea. A great deal had been said as to the possibility of collecting the duties; and if that had been the only question, he should not have deemed it worthy of many observations; but it was a question affecting the consumers of tea, who were, in fact, the great mass of the community. If the House looked at all
 361 362 s d ad valorem 363 s
 Mr. Sinclair  agreed with the hon. member for Boston, that this question was one of principle, and the principle seemed to him to be this, shall there, or shall there not, be a Church Establishment? If all who dissented from its communion were to be exoncrated from contributing towards keeping up the edifices in which religious rights are celebrated according to the forms of the Established Church, on what ground could they be called upon to concur in defraying the maintenance of its Ministers? It was urged, that the Dissenters were subjected to the expense of erecting and keeping up their own places of worship: was it not equally true that they supported their own clergy? Might they not, therefore, on a similar ground, and with equal justice, claim exemption from paying any share of the incomes which the law assigned to the Episcopal incumbents of this land? He felt quite persuaded, that the one demand was only the fore-runner of the other, and would be urged with still greater force and plausibility, when the concession, now insisted on, should be made good. He considered that the property of this country, whether belonging to Dissenters or to members of the Church, had, from time immemorial, been liable to this impost, and, without at present entering further into the consideration of a subject, on which discussion had better he waived until a future opportunity, he should express his opposition to the Motion of his hon. friend, because he thought it militated, in an alarming degree, against the principle of maintaining an Established Church in this country.
 Mr. Goulburn  did not wish to interfere at present with the object which the hon. Mover had in view. He did not rise to enter into the question, whether it was fitting to abolish Church-rates or not, nor did he present himself to the notice of the House with a view of discussing the propriety of the measure which the noble Lord stated was in the contemplation of his Majesty's Government. He rose in consequence of an important point to which the noble Lord adverted, and he did so, lest, if he offered no observations upon it, he should appear to acquiesce in the noble Lord's proposition. The point he alluded to referred to the admission of Dissenters to the Universities. He did not know until very lately, that any numbers of the University of Cambridge had petitioned that House upon the question alluded to. He had not seen the Petition in question, nor, indeed, was he thoroughly aware of its existence until he had heard it spoken of by the noble Lord. Such being the fact, he dared not presume to impugn the motives of those who signed the petition. But if the noble Lord, upon the faith of this petition, would tell the House, that one of the Universities, namely, Cambridge, was in favour of the admission of Dissenters, he would willingly take it upon himself to get the great body of that University to disprove the assertion that they were favourable to the admission of Dissenters into the Universities. If it were at all possible, and he was very far from thinking that it was, to carry this point in concurrence with the Universities,
 394
 Mr. Goulburn  never heard a measure defended on weaker grounds than the present. A false step might do much injury to the revenue; a spurious article might be introduced, and, therefore, the House ought to pause before it rushed rashly to any precipitate change. He could show that bohea tea was the article consumed by the poor. Formerly the bohea tea was so bad that it was not used; but, in subsequent years, it improved so much, that it was substituted for, and often preferred to, congou. Respecting the fraud that would extend to the country whence the tea came, as well as the country into which it was imported, it was a notorious fact, that bohea tea came to the country in congou packages, and it would be difficult to detect the imposition. How was it possible in outports, with so many difficulties to embarrass the judgment of the officer, to fix a certain standard by which to ascertain whether fraud was intended, or that the previous custom of shipping inferior tea in congou packages was merely continued? He (Mr. Goulburn) was an advocate for lowering the duties on tea, but he was against encouraging the introduction of an inferior article amongst the poor.
 Mr. Buckingham  said: When the Tea Duties Act of the last Session was passing through the House of Commons, I was one of the first among its Members who ventured to predict, that the scale by which these duties were to be levied, would be found unjust and impracticable. The opinion was then, I know, disregarded; but the discussion of yesterday and to-day, springing out of the petitions that have been presented, prove too clearly that it would have been well for his Majesty's Ministers, if they had then given attention to that opinion. On that occasion, I remember well, that the right hon. the Secretary to the Treasury (Mr.
 369 ad valorem ad valorem ad valorem; ad valorem s d s d s ad-valorem 370 d s d s s l l 371 s l s l l l s l s 372 l s d d s d s s d 373 ad valorem ad-valorem 374 ad-valorem 375
 Mr. Briscoe  agreed, that it would be better that such a measure should emanate spontaneously from the members of the Administration, than have the appearance of being forced upon them. He should, however, take that opportunity of recording his own conviction of the impolicy and injustice of requiring from the Dissenters the payment of Church-rates when they erected, entirely at their own cost, their own chapels, and supported their own ministers. They had, besides, rendered eminent service to the State, by affording instruction and religious consolation to a large portion of the country. He trusted, therefore, that the measure in contemplation of the Government would prove satisfactory, and give complete relief to the Dissenters.
 Mr. Wilks  said, that the Dissenters would feel themselves obliged to his hon. friend the member for Exeter for the line of conduct he had pursued on the present occasion. Several of the explanations of the noble Lord who last spoke would not be, he feared, so satisfactory to the Dissenters and to the country as he, who desired the stability of the present Government, could have wished. He was, however, pleased that the noble Lord had mentioned, that it was the wish of his Majesty's Government to afford the Dissenters every facility in their power. He begged to impress upon his Majesty's Government the fact, that the great mass of the people of England sympathised with the Protestant Dissenters, and that many of the most enlightened members of the Established Church thought, that the Dissenters were not captious in their demands or complaints. Whilst he confessed himself grateful to his hon. friend for the way in which he treated the question, he could not help, on the part of the Protestant Dissenters, taking the liberty of requesting his hon. friend not to urge on the discussion at present, and thereby endanger or delay its final success. He thought that, after what the noble Lord had said on the part of the Government to which he belonged, it would be better not to press the abstract question, but wait until they saw what was to be the nature of the noble Lord's proposition. The House would coincide with him, that it was desirable to suspend all further proceedings until they saw whether the proposed measure was as just as the noble Lord anticipated, and as satisfactory as was expected and desired.
 393 l l
 Mr. Hume  considered, that every article admitted into the kingdom, if taxed at all, should be subjected to an  ad valorem d d 366 s d d d
 Mr. Sheil  thought, that the hon. and learned Solicitor-General having stated what were his views and opinions, might as well have brought in a Bill at once, instead of delaying a measure for the redress of the existing grievances, by referring the matter to a Committee. He would be glad to know what, in the opinion of the hon. and learned gentleman, constituted libel in a public case? It was well known that in State prosecutions the truth of an alleged libel could not be given in evidence. In cases of private libel, it was right and just that the Jury should have the privilege of determining whether the matter was maliciously intended, and to decide upon the motive; but in public cases, he (Mr. Sheil) was of opinion, that truth should, in every instance, be considered a complete justification. The conduct of Ministers, if canvassed only as to their public proceedings, and avoiding
 424 ex-officio ex-officio
 Dr. Lushington  was deeply impressed with the importance of the subject under the consideration of the House; but as his Majesty's Government intended to take it up, he hoped the hon. mover was not prepared to press it with breathless haste. He hoped the assurances given to night by his noble friend would give general content and satisfaction, for the present, to the Protestant Dissenters generally. The House would see that, in following the project of Government as to the proposed general registration, they would have the whole benefit of the information, influence, and weight, that Government, and Government alone, could bring to bear on a measure of such great national interest. Instead of following an isolated measure, or the mode of legislating which had been so ruinously pursued for the last fifty years, by partial acts, to meet each particular evil that pressed on a sensitive portion of society, they should act as became grave and able legislators, and anticipate, by a great measure, the growing wants of the community. He was aware, as well as most who heard him, that if it were ever brought to issue in that House, there was a majority within those walls determined to give the Dissenters the whole of their just demands. Whatever might be the fate of any Bill intended to effect that object in the other House of Parliament, they, as the real representatives of the Dissenters and the whole population of the United Kingdom, backed, as they were, to-night, by the assurance of a Minister, who never pledged his word without an honest intention to redeem it with honour, would be sure, in the end, to prevail, and ensure to these classes of religious professors that which they were strictly entitled to in the eyes of both God and man.
 Mr. Crawford  said, he regretted the right. hon. Gentleman had not been present yesterday. As he had not, he begged leave to draw the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to the catalogue of sale of the East India Company at the last quarterly sale, in which they had classed bohea and congou tea under one head. He put it to the right hon. Gentleman to explain how this circumstance could be reconciled under the action of the new scale of duties?
 Mr. Hall  seconded the Motion, and observed, that it was founded in equity and justified by experience. The constitution of the Church now occupied so much of the consideration of all men, that it was natural the Dissenters should look to their own interests; and they showed that they were doing so, because they were presenting petitions, praying for the removal of their grievances. He was aware that, in some instances, they prayed for the total separation of the Church from the State; but, from his knowledge of the Dissenters, he was convinced that they were more anxious for the removal of the practical grievances under which they laboured. The first of those grievances was the payment of Church-rates; and he hoped, as the question had now been brought forward, and as there must soon be some positive decision, whether in reference to the Motion of his hon. friend, or with respect to the measure of which the noble Lord opposite had given notice, the House would do the Dissenters that justice to which they were entitled. The progress of dissent was very rapid, and in no part of the country greater than in that with which he was connected. His hon. friend had stated, that in two populous parishes in Monmouthshire there was but one dissenting place of worship, and that between the years 1809 and 1830, there was an increase of not less than twenty-one to the number. He had also an account, stating that, in two other parishes, containing a population of 16,000 souls, there was accommodation at the Dissenters' places
 388 l
 Sir Francis Vincent  would not then go at any length into the subject, but there were one or two points to which he felt it right to advert. One of the greatest evils of the present law was its uncertainty, and that was the defect first to be remedied. On the subject of  ex-officio 423
 Sir George Staunton  said, that having been so long connected with the tea-trade, he could not allow this opportunity to pass without making some observations. He regretted, that it had been thought necessary to abandon the plan of  ad valorem 367 Spectator
 Sir Robert Inglis  should not have spoken upon the subject, had it not been for one observation that had fallen from the hon. member for Boston; and he hoped that, as the House had listened to the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman near him, the member for the University of Cambridge, it would also for a few minutes extend its indulgence to him, who had the honour of representing the other great University. The hon. member for Boston had said, that this was not a question of money, but one of principle; and he also stated, that the Dissenters would, by being exempted from rates, be relieved only from their share of the annual payment of 600,000 l l 395
 Sir Robert Peel  observed, that the House had been told, that it would be 600,000 l
 Sir Robert Peel  adverted to a letter, dated March, 1824, stating, the undersigned merchants considered the samples tried to be not a fair, judgment of the question at issue between the Government and the trade; the taste of the teas resembled each other so much, that they could not distinguish the difference.
 Sir William Horne  approved of the spirit in which his hon. and learned friend (the Solicitor-General) had taken up the question, which he regarded as one of the utmost importance. The present state of the law was most unsatisfactory, but he would, on that occasion, content himself with expressing his readiness to render any assistance he could in the proposed inquiry.
 Lord Althorp  said, that before he replied to any other part of the speeches of the hon. members for Exeter and Monmouth, he must apply himself to that point introduced by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, at the conclusion of his speech, with respect to what was alleged to have been said by his noble friend (Earl Grey) in his place in the other House of Parliament. It was stated, that his noble friend had declared, that he was prepared to defend the continuance of Church-rates as much as the continuance of the connexion between Church and State. Now he was perfectly satisfied that it was quite impossible his noble friend should have made such a statement.
 389 390 391 392
 Lord Althorp  said, that his hon. and learned friend (the Solicitor-General) had not stated any fixed opinion as to any intended alteration of the law. He had called the attention of the House to the defects of the law generally without pointing out particular remedies. He had admitted that there was no definition of libel, and marked it as one defect in the law, but without pointing out what the definition should be. All he had insisted on was, that on this, as well as on many other points, they ought to go into an inquiry. As to  ex-officio ex-officio 425
 Lord Sandon  said, he was against the present plan of Ministers. In Liverpool, and elsewhere, it was thought better to return to the former system of  ad valorem
 Mr. Alderman Wood  said, that this was not the time for discussing this subject. If his hon. friend, the member for Marylebone, were to move, before he brought forward his Motion for the repeal of this Act, for a return of the expenditure of which the petitioners complained, he would find that half the amount might be set down as the consequence of the improvident bargain made by the Middlesex Magistrates. There were vessels passing, constantly to Ireland which would take the paupers the very day they received them from the officers, and at 15 s s s s l l
 Mr. Cayley  could not support the petition for free trade. Gentlemen connected with the manufacturing interest, exaggerated greatly, when discussing this subject. They gave themselves credit for taking a very extensive view, when they stated, that the agricultural interest took a very confined vim. Men might be great philosophers, and be capable of taking extended views, and yet overlook the objects that were near. The hon. Member who presented this petition, had forgotten to state the number of signatures which were attached to it. The hon. Member had some time since presented a petition, to which, he found there were only six signatures attached. He was not surprised, however, that Liverpool should
 437 
 
 Agricultural occupiers 1,500,000 
 Agricultural labourers 4,800,000 
 Mining interest 600,000 
 6,900,000 
 Manufactures 2,400,000 
 Millers, bakers, and butchers 900,000 
 Artificers, builders, &c. 650,000 
 Tailors, shoemakers, and hatters 1,080,000 
 Shopkeepers 2,100,000 
 Clerical, legal, and medical 450,000 
 Disabled paupers 110,000 
 Proprietor, annuitants, &c. 1,116,398 
 6,406,398 438 439 l l l l
 Sir Oswald Mosley  rose for the purpose of moving, that the Question be again referred to a Select Committee. He stated, that his object was not needlessly to delay the Bill, nor did his Motion arise from any hostility to the hon. Baronet. He was only anxious that justice should be done to all parties, and that the innocent should not suffer with the guilty. Such would, undoubtedly, be the case if the borough of Stafford were totally disfranchised; while all which the House wished, all which justice demanded, would be attained by opening the borough, and extending it to the towns of Eccleshall, with ninety-three 10 l l 450
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  opposed the Motion, which was so nearly similar to one formerly negatived by the House, that they might be considered almost identical. The object of both had been to prevent the total disfranchisement of Stafford, and the question was, whether that borough, having been found guilty of gross bribery and corruption at the last election, the House was not called upon to agree to a measure of severity. Considering the proportion of the Representatives for Staffordshire, to its population, it could well afford to spare two of them, and still be deemed amply represented, notwithstanding the last speaker had, in this respect, pleaded the case, as it were,  in forma pauperis
 Sir John Wrottesley  remarked, that if Stafford were disfranchised, it was an important question what should in future be done with the writ. All he claimed was, that the House should deal equally with all these cases—that it should adopt
 451
 Mr. Ord  supported the original Motion. There voted in this borough 318 10 l
 Mr. Edward Buller  said, if a respectable constituency could not be found in the neighbourhood, they ought to disfranchise the borough. There was no fixed rule to guide them in cases of this kind. If the rule was to disfranchise places in which a majority of the electors were corrupt, why was it not applied in the case of Liverpool? It did not appear, that the respectable inhabitants of Stafford were concerned in bribery. They were told that petitions were presented from some of the inhabitants, praying that the borough should be disfranchised. It seemed unnatural that men should petition to be deprived of a valuable right. If they did
 452
 Mr. Halcombe  referred to the fact, that the Report upon which the House was called upon to proceed, was not the Report of an Election Committee; and the evidence, therefore, not being upon oath, it could not be deemed so satisfactory as to establish a ground for disfranchisement. It was openly said in the town of Stafford, that the witnesses gave their evidence without caring much what they said. There was a material difference between the case of Hertford and Stafford, for in the former there was an Election Committee, and the evidence was, of course, upon oath. One of the witnesses was afterwards convicted of perjury. No opportunity of this kind was afforded in the case of Stafford. Why not suspend the proceedings in this case as well as in that of Carrickfergus?
 Mr. Tennyson  entreated the Committee to remember that they were addressing themselves to this question solely in their judicial capacity. He did not stand there in the quality of a Reformer, although no one could doubt his sincerity in the cause of Reform, for he challenged any one to say, that he had ever personally flinched from making the greatest sacrifices in its cause; yet, looking at the Report of the Committee and the evidence by which it was accompanied, he was bound to say, that a case had not been made out which justified the Bill to its full extent. He did not think, that any reason had been shown for swamping the borough of Hertford. He objected on principle to the adding of large agricultural districts to the constituency of towns, which were considered by the Constitution as representing the trading interests of the common people. He saw no reason, if the Reform Bill had properly balanced the representation, for
 462 l
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the right hon. and gallant Officer (Sir H. Hardinge) had alluded to the case of the Whig borough of Newry, where, though general evidence of bribery was as distinctly given as possible before the Committee, no further step had been deemed necessary. But surely the right hon. and gallant Officer did not expect, that this House would do justice to Ireland. In the Carrickfergus case, he would say, that it would become as excellent a close borough for a Whig, as could be desired; but most certainly, though Newry had been proved most corrupt in its method of supporting a candidate, in its inquiries as to where the most money was to be got, and in the formation of schemes of bribery, the Select Committee had been content to recommend the prosecution of certain persons who could not easily be come at. He was of opinion, that the rule ought to he general, and that when bribery had been proved against boroughs, the House ought to take care, that such boroughs should be blotted out from the list of those returning Members to serve in Parliament. Such a course would, in his judgment, be forwarding the real principles of Reform. He should vote for the clause as it stood, because it was some satisfaction, that the corruption of Hertford should be punished, if punishment the proposed measure could be called.
 Mr. Ewart Gladstone  would trouble the House but for a very few minutes. Allusion had been made in the course of the evening to the subscription of 10,000 l Laughter 475
 Mr. Mark Philips  said, that if the noble Lord would pursue his inquiries in order to bring conviction home to those who were equally guilty with the humble freeman, he should have his cordial support.
 Lord George Bentinck : I rise to oppose the third reading of this Bill—I do
 471 l bona fide l 472 l 473 Dat veniam corvis, vexat censurâ columbas
 Lord John Russell  addressed the House under a feeling of considerable difficulty. He did not think it a sufficient objection to the Bill, that the Reform Bill had given a privilege to the freemen, and that, therefore, they ought not to disfranchise the freemen of Liverpool as a class. Let the House recollect that the first Bill proposed to disfranchise the freemen on the ground of gross corruption. It was objected to that measure, that all the poor men who had acted honestly would be disfranchised; but why not proceed upon whatever cases of corruption
 478
 Mr. Charles Wood  had never seen—indeed he had never conceived—anything so gross and flagrant as the corruption in Liverpool. It was a regularly organized system by both parties; and that had not been even attempted to be denied. With respect to the hon. Member's explanation respecting the subscription of 10,000 l
 Mr. Baines  said, it was a notorious fact, that the freemen of Liverpool looked upon the return of an election not as an occasion for the exercise of privileges conferred upon them for important political purposes, but as a  saturnalia
 Mr. Baines  said, that the argument which had been raised as to the injustice of punishing such cases as this, inasmuch as the children of the delinquents (being freemen) must suffer, was one which was not tenable. Admit this principle, and they must go back to the case of the children of the freemen of Grampound. This Bill did not go to affect the rich or poor unequally—it was intended to treat all alike.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he should support the Amendment, because he considered it to be an act of the greatest injustice to punish individuals who had not been proved guilty of any crime.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, that there were some parts of the statement made by the hon. Gentleman who had just set down which were not borne out by the facts of the case. The hon. Gentleman spoke evidently under a misapprehension with respect to the system of leases, which empowered no landlord to eject his tenant by means of a fourteen days' notice. He represented that system as having been extensively acted upon in this borough; but how stood the fact? Why, that in the whole borough only two 10 l 465 ex-post-facto l l l 466 l l
 Mr. Labouchere  was of opinion, that the vengeance of the House ought to fall
 474
 Mr. Benett  rose to move, that the Bill be read a third time. He declined making any formal speech upon a subject which frequent discussion had rendered wearisome to the House. He, however, could not refrain from expressing his wonder to see the noble Lord (Lord Sandon) trying at the eleventh hour to avert a doom so justly merited, as that about to be passed upon the borough of Liverpool, by presenting petitions of which he had no previous notice, and the existence of which was wholly unknown to him. He, however, should not be moved from his purpose; and, indeed, he really thought he was earning the title of a friend and a benefactor to the freemen of Liverpool in presuming to press the present measure to its final stage in that House; as by so doing he for ever took away from them the hitherto irresistible temptations to which they had been exposed, and to which they had for several successive elections fallen victims. He begged to move, that the Bill be read a third time.
 Mr. Benett  said, that three years ago, when he first brought forward the present Bill, he had the support of many hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House who were now opposed to him. At that period he withdrew the Bill at the request of the right hon. Baronet opposite, who pledged himself to support it, if he (Mr. Benett) introduced it, in the ensuing Session. Its progress had, however, since that time, been delayed by the discussion of the Reform Bill. The right hon. Baronet complained, that this Bill would punish innocent parties by depriving persons entitled by descent to their freedom of the elective franchise. Did not the right hon. Baronet recollect that similar injustice was inflicted by the disfranchisement of the Irish 40 s
 Mr. Benett  said, that the hon. member for Marylebone had made a most extraordinary assertion when he said, that London was not the market to which the Irish labourers came to dispose of their labour. If he would make inquiry, he would very soon find, that nineteen-twentieths of the
 432
 Dr. Nicholl  suggested an Amendment, which he thought would meet the view of all parties, having for its object to save from disfranchisement such freemen as had been admitted since the 1st of December, 1830, and such persons as were now entitled to their freedom, or possessed undoubted rights thereto.
 Dr. Nicholl  contended, that the Legislature could not destroy the rights of a particular class of persons; it was unconstitutional to visit with punishment a portion of the community for the offences of the few. Looking to the judicial capacity which was vested in that. House, they were bound to receive their information only from the evidence before them; but they were going out of the evidence.
 Dr. Nicholl  said, that the House should first decide upon the Amendment, the object of which was to make some distinction between the innocent and the guilty; and if that were negatived, they should divide upon the original question.
 Mr. Roebuck  begged the indulgence of the House for a very short time. He considered the question one of the very highest importance, and at the same time so simple, that it could be stated in five minutes; but somehow or other it was always evaded. In the first place, this country was very populous, so much so, that the countries contiguous to it could produce corn at a cheaper rate than it could be produced here. The next fact was, that we were enabled, from peculiar circumstances, to produce manufactures at a cheaper rate than the contiguous countries. Such being the fact, it was clear, that in a natural state of things, the great body of the population of this country must devote their industry to manufactures, and give their produce in exchange for food to be brought from abroad. But it so happened, that there was a body of men in this country, who said, "No, you shall not buy your food abroad for little labour, but you shall pro-
 440 441 Cayley 442
 Mr. Walter  said, that as a discrepancy in the different decisions to which the two Committees had come, in the cases of Hertford and Newry, had been mentioned, he thought it right to remark, that some uniform practice ought to be adopted in Committees with respect to the proof of agency. Every Gentleman who had served on a Committee, knew how the lawyers always endeavoured to mystify that question. The Hertford Committee came, as he thought, to a right decision upon that point in an early stage of their proceedings; but he should not soon forget the dexterity with which it was repeatedly attempted to keep them out of the whole merits, or rather demerits, of the question. It was probably owing to
 468
 Mr. Brotherton  supported the petition. He thought a free trade in corn most important to the prosperity of the manufacturing interest, and to the agricultural interest he believed it would be equally advantageous. The county from which this petition came was, in itself, a fair sample of the extent and importance of the manufacturing interest. In 1815, the rental of Lancashire was 3,100,000 l
 Mr. Hume  was perfectly well aware, that the petitioners were respectable persons; but he believed, that they were mistaken. The Vestrymen of Marylebone, who, he was bound to say, generally took
 433
 Mr. Hume : It is not denied, that a considerable sum is raised upon the importation of foreign cheese and butter, but that the duty on these and other commodities raises the price without any benefit to the State.
 Mr. Bernal  reminded the Committee, that the argument he urged in favour of the Bill was, that some of all classes of voters were mixed up in the corrupt proceedings at Hertford; that even some of the 10 l
 Mr. Bernal , in opposing the Amendment proposed by the right hon. Baronet, observed, that the right hon. Baronet had founded all his arguments upon the principles of the Reform Bill. The right hon.
 460 461 l
 Mr. Bethell  rose, to move, that from the clause commencing, "That no freeman, now, or hereafter," &c., and the words "or hereafter," be omitted. Nothing but a sense of duty could have actuated him in adopting that course. His object was to prevent all persons now or hereafter freemen of Liverpool, from voting for Members of Parliament.
 Mr. Robert Steuart  admitted, that part of the constituency of the borough of Hertford had been guilty of corrupt practices, and he was very willing that the guilty should be punished; but he could not understand upon what principle of justice those against whom no ground or complaint existed should likewise be punished. He agreed with the right hon. Baronet, than the first clause of the Bill would fulfil all the ends of justice, and that all the other parts of it ought to be struck out. He contended, that the addition of
 463
 Mr. Spring Rice  trusted, there was no man in that House who, in cases where bribery and corruption were proved, would not be ready to disfranchise every man, rich or poor, whether freeman or householder. The object of the Amendment was quite a different matter, and had no relation to the circumstances of the case. He should like to know, whether by adopting the Amendment, the House gained one step in the matter. The suggestion had been made, that a Bill should be brought in to disfranchise the 2,600 names who could be proved guilty of corruption; and he for one would support such a Bill. He believed, indeed, that he might say, there were no more zealous promoters of any measure for punishing the guilty in such cases than those hon. Gentlemen who supported the measure before the House. Let them take the two measures separately; but let them not forfeit that which was under discussion. Had this Bill been brought forward in 1830, he had no doubt that the right hon. Gentleman would have admitted, that the borough of Liverpool ought to be disfranchised. They heard much of the lapse of time which had taken place since the year 1830, and much stress had been laid on the conduct of the freemen in withstanding bribes since that period. But how stood the facts? The freemen of Liverpool were in a state of intimidation—they knew that a penalty
 479
 Mr. Ewart  presented a petition from the great body of the inhabitants of Liverpool, praying for a free trade in all articles of importation, but more especially in corn. He was happy to find, that the subject of free trade was one which engrossed the attention not alone of this country, but also that of other countries with which it was in extensive commercial intercourse, as not long since a petition to the
 434 435 vis inertiœ 436
 Mr. James  seconded this Motion. A good deal of the time of the House had been consumed, and, in his judgment, very needlessly, in proving what nobody
 476
 Mr. O'Reilly  said, the borough of Newry had never returned a Whig Member. He contended, that the House was not only sitting judicially, but also in its legislative character, and was justified in legislating for the purity and independence of a borough against which bribery and corruption had been proved and established. As he could not conceive the House would recognize either bribery, or the principle of coercion practised by landlords upon their tenantry to enforce their votes; and, as he believed the Bill before the House would have the effect of protecting tenants against the threats of their landlords, and of saving the electors from the temptation of money bribes, he held, that the House might safely
 467
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  was inclined to believe, that the Act in question had produced much good, but there was one defect in it which he wished to bring before the attention of the House, namely, the fact, that all paupers were to continue in the hands of the constables until they were placed on board the vessel appointed to carry them to their respective destinations. Petition laid on the Table.
 Mr. Ward  would put it to the Committee, whether there was not sufficient from the nature of the evidence to show that corruption prevailed to a great extent among the constituency of Hertford, and to call for the disfranchisement of the old voters. There was also sufficient to show, that if the whole of the voters ought not to be disfranchised, still that, for the purpose of putting an effectual stop to bribery, an infusion of new voters must take place. In addition to the reasons already stated, he found, in the evidence taken before the Committee, several other things that ought not to be forgotten in legislating on that subject. They ought not to forget, the system of intimidation that had pre-
 464 l
 Sir H. Willoughby  seconded the Amendment. If it was wished to give a general warning, they ought to take care, that they punished the guilty, and that the innocent did not suffer. The course now about to be adopted, would do neither the one thing nor the other; or, rather, it would do the very reverse of both; for it would punish the innocent, and allow the guilty to escape. The hon. Member went into an examination of the Reports of the various Committees that had inquired into the Liverpool Elections, and contended, that they did not establish the fact of general bribery and corruption in that town. The preamble of the Bill, however, stated the bribery and corruption to be notorious; therefore, on the very face of the Bill there was an untruth. He should give his most cordial support to the Amendment of his right hon. friend.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he did not feel the force of the argument of the hon. Gentleman. If an opportunity was afforded to the House, he doubted not it would make an example of those persons against whom gross bribery and corruption were proved. He thought, however, that as regarded the present measure, it was one which ought to be regulated by principles of justice, and he did not despair of the House doing justice. But if the Bill were pregnant with injustice, then he would resist it, rather than consent to its standing a disgrace to the House of Commons. The hon. Gentleman who had last spoken, had declared, that this Bill had nothing whatever to do with the difference of station as between the rich and poor. It was then contended, that it punished alike all the delinquents. Now, let the truth be stated. There were freemen of Liverpool, some of whom were rich, whilst others were poor. The poor voter had temptations held out to him which it was hardly possible or natural to suppose he could withstand or resist. The different glades a bribery varied from 5 l l 477 l l l l l
 Sir Robert Peel  rose to move an Amendment, the effect of which would be, if adopted by that House, to leave the Bill in this state, that the elective franchise of that portion of the constituency which had been declared corrupt by the Report of the Committee, would be forfeited, but the existing limits of the borough—the extended limits as laid down by the Boundary Bill—would be still maintained, and the elective franchise would be preserved to those constituents who had been declared by the Report of the Committee to have remained pure and untainted by the corrupt practices which disgraced others. He conceived it to be unnecessary to give an assurance that he was ready to acquiesce in any measure which should have the effect of punishing proved corruption. With great reluctance, and with great violence to his own feelings, by the last vote which he gave, he consented to forfeit the franchise of that town which was the capital of the county in which he resided. He deeply regretted it; but he thought the proof of the general corruption prevalent in Stafford was so strong, that, whatever be the reluctance with which he gave such a vote, he was bound to overcome it, and to consent to make that borough a public example. For this same reason he would consent to the passing of the first clause of the present Bill, by which the guilty would be punished. But he should maintain, on grounds which appeared to him to be immovable, that they were called upon to preserve to the remaining portion of the inhabitants of the borough, the franchise they now possessed, and which they had exercised with proved integrity. There were in this case, as in almost every question, considerations both of expediency and of justice. Of the impolicy of making a large rural district into a borough, and of giving it the privilege of returning Members to Parliament, instead of retaining that privilege to the town,—of the objections to giving, as this Bill would give, in point of fact, two additional Members to the county of Hertford—being five in the whole,—he had before spoken. He would not, on the present occasion, advert to any considerations of expediency; he addressed himself to the House sitting in its judicial rather than in its political capacity; and he felt the considerations of justice to be so powerful, that he would not consent to weaken their force by any reference
 454 l 455 l l l l 456 l l l l 457 l l l 458 l 459 l
 Sir Robert Peel : And is not the effect of the duties on foreign silk precisely the same? What I am now maintaining is, that the landlords do not enjoy an exclusive monopoly. Let the silk manufacturer propose an abolition of the duty on foreign silks, and then he may, with some better show of reason, at least, complain of the Corn-laws. Recollect, too, that the landholder has to pay the Land-tax, and the Malt-tax, and the Tithes.—[Mr.  Hume: l s 447 s d l s l s s d l s d Hon. Member: s s s Hume: animus d s d 448 s s s d Roebuck: 449
 Sir Robert Peel : The hon. Gentleman, the member for Bath, commenced his speech by observing, that this was a very simple question, which could be stated in five minutes. Now, what precise period of time it would take to state the whole of the case I will not determine; but this I know, that the hon. Gentleman has occupied the attention of the House for considerably more than five minutes, and yet he has omitted altogether almost every one of the most important elements which enter into the consideration of a question of the utmost importance, complication, and difficulty. Take, for instance, one consideration, the relation of this country to Ireland; the attempts making to excite a popular feeling in Ireland against the legislative Union; the degree to which those attempts may be encouraged, should we depress that interest in the sister country on which her prosperity almost exclusively depends. Surely this is an important element in the decision of the question, which cannot be excluded from the minds of provident statesmen. Surely the difficulties it involves are not removed by the mere assertion—that the principles of free trade require you to buy your corn in Poland, if corn is cheaper in Poland than in Ireland. The hon. Member says that the case is simply this: other coun-
 443 444 l l l l 445 Hume: 446 l
 Sir Samuel Whalley  presented a Petition from the vestrymen of the parish of St. Pancras, Middlesex, calling the attention of the House to an Act which passed in the last Session for the removal of paupers to Scotland and Ireland at the expense of the counties from which they were removed. By this measure the rates of Middlesex had been increased almost tenfold; and that county, which was not agricultural, had the whole burthen of the removal of the Irish paupers thrown upon it, to the relief of the midland and agricultural counties, which alone reaped the benefit, if there was any benefit, from the labour of those paupers. The petitioners did not wish to throw back the burthen on the agricultural counties; but they thought, as the influx of Irish and Scotch paupers was a national grievance, the expense of their removal should be paid out of the Consolidated Fund. Heretofore the cost of the removal from the county of Middlesex was 5 s s
 Lord Sandon  expressed his astonishment at the tone of the argument of the noble Lord the Paymaster of the Forces. He had seemed to contend, that the innocent were innocent, and acted honestly, only because they were afraid of punishment. Why, such a doctrine as this might, perhaps, be such as even Judge Jeffries would scarcely hold. At any rate, that Judge could only have said to a man brought to the bar, that he knew him to be innocent, but that he was only innocent because he was afraid of being punished.
 Lord Sandon  maintained, that if the freemen whose disfranchisement was now in agitation, had had the worldly wisdom to pursue the course they had adopted when General Gascoyne was delated—if they had voted for the candidate who opposed him (Lord Sandon), the House would never have heard of the measure. The hon. member for Benett,—he begged pardon, he should have said for Wiltshire—had certainly treated these poor men in a most parental manner. A father could not have acted more kindly in removing his children out of the way of temptation. The hon. Member might say, that instead of the obloquy winch he had met with in the prosecution of his duty, he ought to have had a golden statue erected to his memory by those over whose consciences he had proved so tender a guardian. He would relieve them from tile embarrassment under which they frequently laboured, by lightening them of any burthen of public privilege or trust.
 "Who steals my purse, steals trash." 470 l
 Lord Sandon , on the Speaker's calling Mr. Benett's name, begged to present four petitions against the Bill of which the hon. Member was about to move the third reading.—The first was from 100 of the freemen of Liverpool, who did not vote in the election of 1830.
 Colonel Torrens  was ready to maintain the principle, that the farmer had no interest in keeping up a high price for corn. During the currency of his lease, indeed, the farmer was a part proprietor of the soil, and had a temporary interest in high prices; but that interest ceased on the expiration of the lease. The farmer, however, had a large, enduring, and permanent interest in low prices, like that of all employers of capital. The cost of cultivation was different in different qualities of soil; and if they admitted foreign corn, they might throw out of cultivation those poor soils that produced little corn, but they would not throw out the superior soils; and on those soils the farmer would get higher profits than before. Suppose a farmer obtained ten bushels per acre from a certain description of soil upon which the expense of cultivation was equal to that of soil which produced twenty bushels per acre, it would be no disadvantage to him to have the inferior soils thrown out of cultivation. If they looked to the question with attention, they would find the interests of the farmer were different from those of the landed proprietor, for the one had an interest in low prices, and the other in high. He was an advocate for cheap corn, if the expense of cultivation were lowered.
 Mr. Strickland  said, it had been truly stated, that the question was one of monopoly, or free trade; and also that, in the artificial state of this country, free trade was a chimera. Personally, he was much interested in the question. All he
 493
 Mr. Langdale  said, that an increase of demand must cause an increase of price to the grower. The landowner might consider land as his manufactory, and he ought to be allowed to turn it to the greatest possible advantage. But what was the fact? He could not change his wheat into malt without being immediately met by the excise, who would forbid him to do so. What would a manufacturer of cotton twist say, if, when he proposed to turn his cotton into something else, he was met in this manner? Suppose the
 489 l.
 Mr. Finch  rose to resume the debate on this Petition. He would not do so were he not convinced, that neither the agriculturists, of whom he was one, nor the manufacturers, were satisfied with the debate which had taken place on the Motion of the hon. member for Middlesex. The more he thought upon the subject the more he was convinced of the utter impracticability of having a free-trade in corn. Some of the statements of the right hon. the Vice President of the Board of Trade, on a former occasion, appeared to him to be vague and unfounded. The right hon. Gentleman inferred that the sufferings of the agriculturists arose from the continuance of the Corn-laws. Now, anybody conversant with the actual state of things, would know, that the only thing which had saved them from utter ruin was the protection afforded them by those very laws. A series of difficulties had occur-
 483 484 485 Westminster Review 486
 Mr. Robinson  said, that, during all the years which he had held a seat in that House, whenever this question had been discussed, he had found, that it always bore one aspect; and the question now was in exactly the same state as what he first heard discussions upon it. He supposed, therefore, that there must either be more difficulty in the question than some persons were inclined to suppose, or that there were conflicting interests involved which tended to influence men's judgments. His opinion was, that conflicting interests added materially to the difficulties of the question. He was quite sure, that hon. Members endeavoured to divest themselves of all interested motives; but, at the same time, he was quite sure that they could not do so entirely. The great difficulty of all, however, was the immense pressure of the national debt. If they
 491 l. l. 492
 Mr. Benett  would ask the right hon. Baronet (the member for Dundee), whether individuals who had embarked a large capital in any pursuit were not entitled to protection? A great many individuals—such as the sons of respectable farmers—were bred up to agricultural pursuits, and were, in fact, able to do nothing else. Was an education that had been so obtained to be rendered useless, by depriving that individual of the means of employing it with advantage to himself? The real question was, whether or not the farmer was entitled to protection; for the effect of free trade would be to destroy his capital. If land could not be cultivated so as to yield him a profit, the consequence would be, that the landlord would become farmer, and the farmer would become labourer. There was another class, however, in whose welfare he felt a deeper interest than in that of the farmer; that class was the agricultural labourers. It had been said, that England was essentially a manufacturing country; he denied that proposition: it was essentially an agricultural one, and he should wish it to remain so. It should be remembered, that, if the interests of any branch of manufacture was at all assailed, there was at once a combination or union of those individuals connected with it, for the purpose of representing to Parliament the effects likely to accrue, and demanding the protection of the Legislature; while, on the other hand, no combination in de-
 490
 Sir Charles Burrell  thought, after the eloquent speech delivered by the right hon. Baronet (the member for Tamworth) yesterday, it would have been much better to have let the question terminate where he left it. In his opinion, the landed interest was entitled to protection; and he could not, therefore, agree to the sentiments contained in the petition.
 Sir Edward Kerrison  had heard the speech of the right hon. Gentleman with great surprise. The farmer chiefly found the capital to work the land, the right hon. Member admitted the capital to be there, and was that to have no protection? Did the right hon. Member mean to say, that the capital of the landlord and corn-grower was not an important point to be considered? Did that not require protection? Was he to suffer the foreign grower to come into the market, and beat him out of the field? According to the right hon. Gentleman the country would go on well, while the landlords would be utterly ruined. That appeared to be the upshot of his argument, and a weaker argument he had not heard since he had been in that House.
 Sir Harry Verney  said, that the farmers and landed proprietors were more oppressed by the local burthens of the country than by the taxes imposed by this House to meet the exigencies of the State; and it was to this point that the House ought to look when they wished to relieve the land. The pressure of the county and other rates upon the farmer, was very great; and in several of the parishes in his neighbourhood the poor-rates were from 12 s. s.
 Sir Henry Parnell  said, that having a petition to present upon this subject, he trusted the House would permit him to make a few observations upon the question. The hon. Member who last addressed the House, grounded his case upon the interest the farmer had in this question. But whenever such a position was stated in that House, he felt it to be his duty to contradict it in the most direct and positive manner. It was a gross delusion practised upon the farmer by the landlords, to say that the farmers were interested in the continuance of the present system of Corn-laws. Let the question be fully and fairly discussed, and let the farmer really understand his own interest, and he would undertake to say, that it
 487 l. l. 488
 Lord Sandon  said, that there was the evidence of facts to prove, that lowering prices had ruined the farmer. What was the first effect of a fall of prices? Did the landlord immediately, when the price of corn fell, lower his rent twenty per cent? No; he said, that it was a chance which might be made up by a better crop the next year; but the next year it might be the same; and the farmer would continue to pay his rent out of his capital. With regard to throwing land out of cultivation, he could not look with indifference to a great number of the agricultural labourers being thrown out of employment, upon the mere chance of finding employment in other ways. It was the duty of a good Government not to raise one interest at the expense of another. If he looked at the possible extension of trade from the opening of the corn trade, we must, in such a case, take corn from foreign States;—but would those States, for the sake of the 200,000 or 300,000 bushels of corn, which we should want, be induced to give up the protection which they had been so long weaving round their manufactures? Would the United States do it, or Prussia?—when the constant labour of every Prussian Minister, for many years, had been to foster manufactures.
 Mr. Walker  would not delay the House for more than two minutes; the question had been so fully discussed he would not touch on its merits; he merely rose as an Irish Member, fully persuaded that a repeal of the Corn-laws, without a corresponding remodelling of all the other interests in this kingdom, must bring certain destruction on Ireland; and he also believed on the landed interest of England. Many of the supporters of this measure admitted that all men of moderate fortune must be annihilated by it; that none but the overgrown proprietors could stand it; and that it must be accompanied by a cancelling of all existing contracts between landlord and tenant. Were Members really prepared to agree with that proposition? He was anxious to state the reason so few Irish Members had taken part in this debate. It was not owing to their not taking a deep interest in the question; it was solely caused by their being unavoidably absent, attending their several assizes; and he could assure the House that the majority of the Irish Members, and the majority of the Irish people, felt that the repeal of those laws, under present circumstances, must destroy their only means of existence, the agricultural interest of Ireland.
 Colonel Maberly , in rising to bring forward the Ordnance Estimates, was happy to state, that he had been able to effect reductions even beyond the most sanguine expectations which in the last Session he had expressed to the House. The apparent saving, as compared with the Estimates of last year, on the sum to be expended, was 257,000 l l l l l l l l 544 l l l l l l l l
 Colonel Maberly  said, that the hon. member for Middlesex had mixed up the charges for the various departments in such a manner that he (Colonel Maberly) found it extremely difficult to reduce them from the chaos in which they had been involved, into intelligibility and order. The whole sum to be voted was alma 1,346,000 l 558 l l 559 l 560
 Lord Dudley Stuart  said, he would take that opportunity of putting a question to the noble Lord (Palmerston) opposite. A
 561
 Lord Palmerston  had no objection to answer the question put by his noble friend. No such communication as that mentioned by his noble friend had been made by the government of Russia to his Majesty's Government.
 Mr. John Maxwell  said, that no argument which the hon. Gentleman could adduce would satisfy the people that a monopoly should be upheld for the benefit of one class to the injury of another. He hoped, therefore, that his Majesty's Ministers would make some alteration in the present system. He did not call upon them to repeal the Corn-law, but he did call upon them to try the experiment of a fixed duty upon some one description of corn—barley, for instance. Let them do this, and watch the effect it would produce; then, and then only, could they be able to arrive at anything like a correct view of this important question. The hon. member for Colchester had taunted the landlords with a desire to break faith with the public creditor. For his part he did not think this a question between the landholder and the fundholder, but it was a question between the fundholder and the people of England, between the fundholder and his poor constituents, who were working for 10 d
 Lord Henniker  rose to correct an error into which the hon. and learned member for Colchester had fallen. The meeting in Suffolk was not adjourned in the manner which that Gentleman had represented. A petition, not against the Corn-laws, but praying for relief to the agriculturist, was seconded by the very respectable person to whom the hon. member for Colchester had alluded, who certainly was a shoemaker, and was carried unanimously.
 Mr. Harvey:  More wholesome, though not in all things palatable, truths, have been uttered in the debates of the last three mornings, as to the real state of the country, than fell from hon. Members, when this subject was recently before the House, two of whom consumed five hours in propounding their conflicting nostrums. If I were called upon to define the meaning of a deliberative assembly, such as I have now the honour to address, I should say, it means "a body of men who decide without reason, and reflect afterwards." It would seem, that senators are of the feline breed—it is a long time before their eyes are opened, and things can be clearly discerned. We only appear just to have stumbled upon matters with which the public out of doors have long been familiar. We might continue to delude ourselves a little longer, but the time to delude the people has passed away. It is, indeed, admitted, that some difficulties exist; but they partake more of the character of inconvenience than of positive evil. Of this tone of feeling, was the King's speech. Manufacturers were congratulated upon a state of prosperity, which no one, except wealthy capitalists, like the hon. member for Ipswich (Mr. Morrison) could discover, while the agriculturists were expected to be abundantly satisfied and gratified with the assurance that the royal mind was deeply afflicted by their privations; at the same time, his Majesty's Ministers gravely told the farmers, they had no other comfort to offer them. But my chief object in rising is to revert to a numerous class of persons who seem to be entirely overlooked. We abound in champions of free trade, and corn monopoly—but not a word is uttered as to the national creditor except here and there a startling sound is heard, which, if carried out to its consequences, would instantly occasion a fall in the funds of at least twenty per cent. Much has been said about the land, but not one word about the two hundred and eighty thousand persons who are the creditors of the country, and are constantly receiving their half-yearly dividends at the Bank. Some gentlemen have talked of the burthen of the
 530 l l l 531 l l l 532 l s 533 s l l l l 534 l l l
 Mr. Baines  was surprised to hear the hon. member for Oldham say, that the Corn-laws had not been of any benefit to the agriculturists; if so, they ought to be wiped from the Statute-book, for assuredly they were of no use to any body else. The right hon. member for Tamworth certainly made a most able speech on this subject; but although he admired the right hon. Baronet's speech, he could not arrive at his conclusions. An hon. Baronet, the member for Shoreham (Sir C. Burrell), said, that the debate ought to have concluded at the end of the right hon. Baronet's speech. No doubt the hon. Baronet thought so, but it would not have been well for the ends of truth and justice that the debate should have ended there. The right hon. Baronet said, that in discussing this question, they ought not to lose sight of Ireland. In this statement he agreed, for his opinion was, that the more consideration was given to Ireland the more likely were they to make this country happy and prosperous. The right hon. Baronet observed, that a free trade in corn would be utterly ruinous to this country. His opinion was exactly the reverse of that. Previous to the establishment of the Corn-laws, the landlords and farmers were comfortable and happy, and now they were in comparative distress. What gave prosperity at one period was calculated to give it, at least in a degree, at another. He admitted, that the debt had been increased since the imposition of the Corn-laws; and it might be said to be a drag on the prosperity of the country; but a very large proportion of that debt had existed in 1810, previous to the passing of the present Corn-laws, and yet the country, particularly the agricultural portion of it, was then prosperous. The agricultural depression at the present period was unexampled; and yet the corn-trade of the country had been cumbered with protection laws since 1815. With respect to the debt itself, he was not in favour of any equitable adjustment of the claims of the State creditors. As the debt had been contracted, it ought to be paid; and he was sorry to hear any doubts expressed on the subject by any hon. Member of that House. No man could be more averse than he had been to contracting that debt—no man could be more opposed at the time to the causes which led to it; but now no man would more strenuously oppose any undue or improper interference with it than he would. He would repeat, as the debt had been contracted, so
 536
 Mr. Lambert  agreed with the hon. member for Oldham, that the Corn-laws did not afford a sufficient protection to the agricultural interest. It appeared also to him that those who advocated free trade and the removal of all sorts of restrictions in that House confined themselves to abstract theories, with the most magnanimous disregard of practice or precedent. He would ask the advocates of the system of free trade, was it on that the prosperity of England was founded? No person would have the hardihood to answer in the affirmative. The prosperity of England had been founded on a system of commercial laws mainly restrictive. These were he admitted now-a-days considered defective; yet England had arisen to undoubted prosperity under them. But the free-trade theorists, in reference to the decaying state of the country since the restriction on commerce had been removed, would no doubt say, "If it be not prosperous, it ought to be so." And to those who suffered by the change, they would say, "Console yourselves, you ought to be prosperous." That was very poor consolation, and not at all that with which he would be satisfied. He did not like such consolation. The perseverance in these theories would, he was convinced, have the effect of causing a continuous bankruptcy
 528 s s d 529
 Mr. Herries  must still insist, that as the object of the right hon. Baronet was to keep the Comptroller-general from the influence of the Crown, if the Act of Parliament stated that the office in Greenwich Hospital was to be held during pleasure, it did not remove the individual from the influence of the Crown; he was, therefore, incapable of holding the office of Comptroller.
 Mr. Herries  referred to the nature of the appointment of Lord Auckland, as Commissioner of Greenwich Hospital, by Act of Parliament, which expressly stated that it was to be during his Majesty's pleasure; and he contended that this would disqualify him for the office of Comptroller-general.
 Mr. Herries  said, that as Chairman of the Committee in which this Bill had, he might say, its foundation, he felt it necessary for his own sake, and for the sake of those with whom he then acted, to offer a few remarks on the Bill. To the general principle of the Bill he was as ardent a friend as the right hon. Baronet; but though he agreed in the principle, he differed from the right hon. Baronet as to some of its details, and his object in thus adverting to it was with the view of making the Bill as perfect as he thought it might be made. One part of it on which he differed from the enactments of the Bill was that of having two persons of equal authority at the head of the department, each to act in the absence of the other, but for this absence there was no regulation, as neither of those parties were to be under a higher authority. This, he thought, would be productive of inconvenience, inasmuch as it tended to bring about a practice which it was a professed object of the Bill to avoid—of having the duties of principals done by deputies. He was of opinion that the Clerk of the Pells might be retained under some other name, if it were thought proper, but as a recorder of the acts of other officers. If two officers were appointed, they should be a check upon each other. The Comptroller-general should undoubtedly have an opportunity of being occasionally absent, provided it were without de-
 562 pro hac vice
 Mr. Hume  commenced by observing, that when the Ordnance survey of Ireland was originally proposed, he had opposed the granting of so large a sum as 300,000 l l 545 l l l l l l l 546 l l l l l l l l l l l 547 l l 548 l l l l l l l l l l l 549 l l l l l l 550 l l l l l 551 s s 552 Hon. Member: 553 l l l l l l l l l l l 554 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 555 l s d l s d 556
 Mr. Pease  had the most unshaken belief, that no amount of duty would serve as an adequate protection to the agriculturists. There was a power in other countries to inundate England with corn at prices which had never yet been boldly stated in that House. There was a great confusion of opinion out of doors upon this subject; but he believed, that the discussion which had taken place the last two days, had done a great deal to correct the errors which prevailed. He was quite certain that the constituency which he represented, and which was as much interested as any other in the kingdom in the cheapness of corn, was satisfied that if the incomes of the landlords and farmers were reduced, they themselves would have empty shops, as well as the people of Colchester. They all agreed with him as to the necessity of protecting the agriculturists, and they all knew that corn could
 538
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  said, that Locke had long ago pointed out the evils of a contraction of the currency. He compared a nation suffering under such a contraction to five children lying in a bed. No sooner did one little fellow pull the clothes than he uncovered another; and so they went on squabbling till their father enlarged their covering. That was the state of this country at present; the farming interest was calling out for a free trade in goods,
 539 540 541
 Mr. Cobbett  rose to expose a few of the grave mistakes which Gentlemen fell into when talking upon this subject. The hon. member for Lambeth had on a former day referred to America as illustrating the blessings of free trade. He said, that if we took American corn they would take our manufactures; but let them see the example which America had set them. In that free country, where Congress really represented the bulk of the people, a duty of twenty-five per cent was imposed on the Winchester bushel of wheat. Now twenty-five cents. was one quarter of the price of wheat in America. Indeed he had rarely known wheat continue long at a dollar per Winchester bushel. Fifteen cents was the duty imposed on oats, which, as the oats there were very bad, except when raised from English seed, was one-half of their price. They went further than this, however, for they imposed a protecting duty on seeds, which seeds they could not do without. The duty on seeds of all sorts was twenty-five per cent  ad valorem d d d d ad valorem 526 The Quarten Loaf d d d d d d d l l s s 527 s s
 Mr. Cobbett  said, great credit was due to the hon. member for Middlesex for the searching inquiry he had made into these Estimates. For himself, he must say, he had not patience enough to go into any such details; but he should still make an observation or two to the House. The expense of the Ordnance during the last peace had been overstated by the hon. member for Middlesex, for it did not exceed the sum of 367,000 l l l l l l 557 l
 Mr. Ewart , in reply, said, he would promise two things—first, that he would not speak five minutes; next, that he would confine himself closely to the point. He must begin by thanking the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) for having virtually supported the petition from Liverpool. The whole tendency of the right hon. Baronet's arguments merely went to show that other monopolists existed, as well as landed monopolists. He had proved, not that they were not monopolists, but that they were not the only monopolists. The Liverpool Petition prayed for relief from monopolists generally, as well as for especial relief from a monopoly of the supply of food. The general principle, therefore, of the right hon. Baronet's speech was favourable to the case of the petitioners rather than to the landed interest. But besides, he apprehended that the right hon. Baronet had erred in detail. In the table
 542
 Mr. O'Reilly  rose to offer a few observations on the very important subject before the House. The argument which he thought had been urged with most force for the continuance of the present system was, that the repeal of the Corn-laws by lessening the means of the agricultural capitalists, would have the effect of limiting his power to give employment to the same number of labourers as he employed at present. The produce of the laud of Ireland had been quadrupled
 523 524 525 s s s
 Sir James Graham  said, that he listened with the utmost deference and respect to the suggestions of the right hon. Gentleman, who combined with a knowledge of these details much practical experience. He (Sir James Graham) was anxious to continue the ancient system of the Exchequer so far as it was found effective; he was desirous that the control of the present day should be at least as efficient as the former control. The subject of dispute between him and the right hon. Gentleman was, whether the present double check was more efficient than the single check provided in the Bill before the House. He (Sir James Graham) had stated his reasons already for thinking that the single check, as provided in the Bill, was most efficient. It was to be recollected, that this single check was an entirely independent officer. He proposed that the offices of Comptroller and Assistant-comptroller should not be filled by persons holding any other appointment from which they were removable by the Crown. Another objection of the right hon. Gentleman was, that the office of the Comptroller-general might degenerate into a sinecure. But he proposed to insert, in the second clause, that the assistant should exercise the powers of the Comptroller only in the event of the illness or occasional and necessary absence of the Comptroller; he also proposed to provide that the Comptroller should exercise his functions in person, and that both officers should be removable by an Address from either House of Parliament. These, he thought, would be found sufficient precautions for preventing the principal office degenerating into a sinecure. If there were a double check, as suggested by the right hon. Gentleman, there must be a provision for the occasional absence of both
 563
 Sir James Graham  replied, that the effect of the appointment of Lord Auckland in Greenwich Hospital was during life.
 Sir John Tyrell  thought it an unfair statement of the case to represent the agriculturists as enjoying an exclusive protection. The fact was, that they were by no means as much protected as the manufacturers. The right hon. member for Tamworth read yesterday a numerous list of articles which were taxed from twenty-five to fifty per cent for the protection of the manufacturers. When the latter, therefore, came to the House to complain of the protection given to the agriculturists, they ought to come with "clean hands." If the protection were to be taken away from the land, it ought not to be continued to manufacturers; and he believed that, if both were exposed alike to foreign competition, the capital of the manufacturer would be swept away, whilst the agriculturist would outlive the struggle, and his property be as fixed and endurable as the oaks which were planted by his ancestors. He was glad, that the hon. member for Leeds did not agree to what was called an equitable adjustment, but what he called an iniquitous appropriation. The
 537
 Mr. Pryme  said, that having been referred to by the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, he felt himself called upon to offer a few observations to the House upon the present occasion. In the first place, he begged to state, that religious instruction was at the present period much more extended in the University of Cambridge than formerly, but it was confined to instruction of a general rather than a controversial character. To the course of examination on religious topics now pursued, no man, whatever might be his tenets, could object, for it was so general as almost to be interesting as matter of history. All matters of controversy were carefully abstained from under the present system; which had been adopted about fifteen years ago. At that period a revision of the course took place, and several plans were submitted for adoption, and amongst others was a course in which Bishop Jewell's Apology for the Church of England was included, but was considered as being of too controversial a character; but after some years it was adopted partially, the books which had a controversial tendency being struck out of the course of examination. He could not conceive that any Dissenter could object to go through an inquiry into points of faith, or to receive instruction in the Gospels from which he professed to take his doctrine; so that religious education would not necessarily be neglected by the change which the petitioners proposed. It could not be denied, that it was most unjust, after allowing the Dissenters to study and go through the usual course of instruction, to deny them the certificate which their attainments entitled them to. It was absurd to suppose that any change could be effected in the Constitution of the University by admitting Dissenters to places in the Senate.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that it was no unfrequent thing for individuals to attach their names to reports which laid
 605
 Mr. Ruthven  said, that however suspicious tine conduct of the Lord Chancellor of Ireland might have appeared on a former occasion as to this appointment, that suspicion was now removed, and he was glad that the saddle was placed on the right horse. It was not very creditable to the Irish Church that this appointment should have been given to the son of the Chancellor, merely because he was such, and without any reference to his qualifications for the office. Since Dean Plunkett had held the office, he was in the receipt of 1,400 l.
 Colonel Maberly  brought up the report of the Ordnance Estimates. On the question that 29,743 l
 Mr. Wynn  strongly objected to that part of the Bill which proposed that the decision of the Committee should be final. He thought it would be the bounden duty of the House to read the evidence given before the Committee before confirming its decision. Besides, the words final and conclusive, precluded the jurisdiction of the House of Lords which could hardly be intended.
 Lord John Russell  said, the great object was, to obtain such a tribunal as might give a final Report, upon oath, such as the House of Commons might receive and approve of, and such as might prevent the House of Lords from feeling it necessary, if the evidence were taken on oath, to occasion additional trouble and expense, by seeking for Further evidence.
 Mr. Wynn  thought the principle a good one. The details, however, in his opinion, required much consideration, and he must object. to the words "final and conclusive."
 Mr. Hardy  wished that the functions of a Committee which was to try the validity of the return of Members, and the functions of a Committee to try the general question of bribery and corruption, should be separate. He thought it would be well to have two Committees, and to have them differently constituted.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he altogether approved of the arrangement by which the reduction of the list of names should be left to the Speaker. If put in practice, he was quite sure it would prove satisfactory to all parties.
 Mr. Halcombe  suggested—1st, that the
 611 primâ facie primâ facie
 Mr. Roe  objected to the clause which referred the examination of any petition complaining of bribery and corruption to a Committee already sitting to try the merits of a petition against a return. This clause was inconsistent with another clause in the Bill; for by the one clause any Member for a borough against which a petition was presented might sit on a Committee to try the qualification of a Member on his due return, and eleven such borough Members might compose one Committee; but another clause said, that no member for a borough against which a petition complaining of general bribery and corruption was presented, could sit as Member of a Committee to try the question of bribery as to any other borough. Now, by the clause (the second) before the Committee, a petition complaining of general bribery and corruption in a borough might be referred at any time to a Committee sitting to try the qualification or due return of a Member, and the same Committee was to report on both; but, by the 10th clause, the authority of the whole eleven borough Members would be at an end, as by that clause, being Members of boroughs petitioned against for bribery and corruption, they could not decide on a question of bribery in any other case.
 Mr. Hardy  thought, that the offence of bribery ought to be tried before a regular tribunal in the same way as any other crime, whether felony or misdemeanour. In a case formerly brought before that House of an hon. and gallant Member who had been convicted by a Court
 612 de novo.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the Courts of Law were at present open to receive charges of bribery, and men might be, as they sometimes were, convicted of that offence. Indeed 800 electors of one borough might be convicted. But he thought it would be hopeless, all things considered, to bring home such evidence as would ensure the disfranchisement of a corrupt borough if they went to a Court of Law.
 Mr. Wynn  was of opinion that it would be far better that the Speaker should, out of the 658 Members of the House, select the original thirty-three, as he must be supposed the best judge of their fitness, and that, out of those, the eleven should be taken by lot.
 Lord John Russell  had considered the clause, and he saw an objection not to leave the Speaker the power of naming those who would constitute the Committee, though he would admit, that it was not desirable to give him an invidious power. It he chose the thirty-three, then, when they came to the eleven chosen by lot, it might be found that the inquiry would be conducted by inexperienced and inefficient Members. On a question such as that of investigating corruption, where public justice and the public interest were concerned, it was desirable to have men whose decision, from a knowledge of the law and the practice of Parliament, would inspire the House and the country with confidence. It was better to have the thirty-three taken by lot; and let the Speaker select eleven.
 Mr. Wynn  was surprised at hearing the remark of the noble Lord. He could not believe, that in a Reformed Parliament, which the noble Lord had said was to contain so much intelligence, experience, integrity and talent, that the Speaker would find any difficulty in selecting thirty-three efficient Members for Judges from whom there could be any risk of drawing eleven bad ones. He was of opinion, that it the thirty-three were left to chance, the Speaker could not, perhaps, select eleven who were not sufficiently acquainted with the law.
 Lord John Russell  doubted whether it would be competent to the Speaker to select thirty three. Many would wish to avoid the appointment, and make interest to be excused. He thought it an invidious power to give him the appointment of the thirty-three.
 Mr. Tennyson  said, it was very necessary to shield the honour of the Speaker from imputation. He thought, however, the proposal of the right hon. Member (Mr. Wynn) the least objectionable.
 Lord John Russell  said, the nominees would not have the right of voting; but he thought a Committee would be benefited by having two Members present familiar with the case.
 Mr. Wynn  thought the plan of the noble Lord would place Members named as nominees in a most difficult and unfit situation. In his opinion, no Member of that House ought to be named a party to an inquiry under the express or implied understanding, that he would contend for a particular side.
 Mr. Spring Rice  admitted, that the clause, as it stood, contained somewhat of an anomaly; but, at the same time, contended, that the alteration suggested by the hon. Member (Mr. Aglionby) would, if introduced, weaken its general effect. The object, in proposing the appointment of nominees was, to have the case brought fairly before the Committee.
 Mr. Wynn  instanced a case, in which Mr. Fox and another hon. Member, having been appointed nominees, were, with the single exception of the Chairman, the only persons who voted in opposition to the decision finally come to.
 Mr. Mark Philips  was unfavourable to the appointment of Bribery Committees, and thought it would be much batter to leave the inquiry to the ordinary tribunals of justice. He likewise objected to the appointment of nominees, as being likely to place Members in an extremely invidious position. He had himself been appointed it nominee in the case of the Liverpool inquiry, last Session; and, from experience, was able to assure the House, that they were altogether unnecessary, and might, with perfect safety, be abolished.
 Mr. Wason  said, that the Liverpool inquiry would have been gone through in half the time, and with half the expense, had it not been for the nominees. He, therefore, quite concurred in the Amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Cockermouth.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  would state, that so far back as 1828 he proposed an Amendment which had for its object the saving of the public money. 30,000 l. l. l. l. 607
 Mr. Stanley : With the exception of Halifax, the sums required would not be greater than those originally sought for and even in respect to the capital of Nova Scotia, they would not be found to have much increased.
 Colonel Maberly  said, the situation of his Majesty's Ministers stood thus:—When they came into office, they found such and such works proceeding, and proceeding, too, under the sanction of the House. Considerable sums of money had been disbursed; and the question which they solemnly put to themselves was, were these sums to be thrown away? They considered they ought not; and that the works which had been commenced ought to be completed. The hon. member for Oldham was of a different opinion, and would have Parliament rescind its former Resolutions. Halifax had undergone many changes since the period when that hon. Member visited it. He had been there, but at a more recent period, than the hon. Member and was surprised at the hon Member's remarks. The hon. Member was ignorant of the great and fertile sources of wealth possessed by this Colony. The soil was rich, and the most valuable mines abounded in the province. The harbour was a very good one, and the citadel very necessary for its protection on the land side. The hon. and gallant Member next proceeded to advert to Kingston; and with respect to the Mauritius, from the Ordnance surveys, it was clearly ascertained that if the citadel were finished, the garrison might be de-
 609
 Mr. Tennyson  should detain the House only a few moments in stating the reasons for his present vote. The citadel of Halifax had already cost 84,000 l. l.
 Lord John Russell  said, that in the year 1828, during the Administration of the Duke of Wellington, 2,000,000 l. l. l.
 Major Beauclerk  said, that the church of one of these six parishes happened to be upon some property of his, and had been built by his grandfather. The clergyman who had been appointed to this parish, had been most cruelly wetted under this commission. His salary was 100 l l. l. l. l.
 Major Beauclerk  said that, after the House had heard the admissions of the right hon. Baronet, the member for Tamworth, and other hon. Members from different parts of the country, that the agricultural body throughout the kingdom was suffering severely from distress and depreciation in the price of produce, he thought it was not too much to ask his Majesty's Government to pause before they sanctioned a vote for adding to a sum of 200,000 l. l. 606 l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Littleton  brought up a Memorial from the reverend T. Plunkett to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. In moving, that it be laid upon the Table, he wished to submit a few observations to the House. He was quite sure that the House would bear in mind what had passed a few nights ago on the subject of the appointment of the reverend T. Plunkett to the deanery of Down, and would not think it unfair if he begged its indulgence for a short time. He was desirous of taking this course, solely because remarks had been made on the conduct of his noble friend, Lord Plunkett, which no man would think ought to be passed over without an answer. He should not have delayed the explanation so long, had he not daily expected to receive the memorial, a copy of which he now presented, and the presentation of which seemed to afford the fittest and most becoming opportunity for making the desired explanation. His right hon. friend, in the Motion he had submitted the other night, did not in express terms speak of Lord Plunkett as having recommended his son to the deanery of Down, nor did he in express terms advert to the details of the Report to which the signature of Lord Plunkett was undoubtedly attached; but nobody who had heard him could receive any other impression from what he said than this—that Lord Plunkett, having been thoroughly apprised of the alteration as to the deanery of Down, recommended by the Report of the Commissioners, had, notwithstanding, recommended his son to the Government as a fit person to be appointed to that deanery. The right hon. Gentleman would not deny that such was the natural inference from his observations. There were two points in the case; first, the statement, or rather the implied statement, that Lord Plunkett had recommended his son to the deanery of Down. This was the first point; and as what took place in the House of Commons was almost immediately known through the ordinary channels elsewhere, it no sooner reached Lord Grey than he (Mr. Littleton) was informed by his Lordship that Lord Plunkett had made no application to him for the deanery—that
 599 ex-officio 600 601 March th My dear Lord—I perfectly recollect that you for some time, at the last meeting of the Board of Ecclesiastical Inquiry, refused to sign the draft, but were persuaded by the Committee present to sign the draft of the Report, on their suggesting that by so doing you were not committed to the details of the schedules, but only to the body and principles of the report, your disapprobation whereof would be implied by your refusal. You were not, as I can recollect, present at framing any of the schedules respecting the Deanery of Down, and, I think, I may with certainty say that you were not. 602 Now first I shall think it right to state that I have bounded my tour to the Deanery of Down—that previous to the month of September, 1831, there was no vacancy of the Deanery expected—that in consequence of the death of the late Bishop of Derry, and the promotion of Bishop Ponsonby to that see, the Bishoprick of Kildare became vacant. That the opinion of Lord Grey, and of the other members of the Government, was, that the see of Kildare should be filled by Mr. Knox, the then Dean of Down, and that Doctor Grey, without any application on my part, was so good as to send to me, and to state his wish to appoint my son to the Deanery of Down. I felt the kindness of the offer, and accepted it gratefully. The Deanery was stated by Mr. Knox to be of the annual value of 2,000 l. l. At this time the duties of Chancellor of Ireland had devolved on me. I had been arduously engaged in clearing off heavy arrears, and discharging the duties of my office; and I had, in addition, full occupation to my mind from my Parliamentary duties, which I could not put aside. Under all these circumstances, I hope I do not draw too largely on the confidence of any fair mind, when I declare, on my honour as a gentleman, that when the Deanery of Down was offered to me for my son, by Lord Grey, I had not the most distant recollection, nor do I believe I ever had the slightest knowledge, of any arrangement having been proposed by the Commissioners in respect to it. I now come to what took place in July, 1832, when the objection was started. Mr. Stanley sent for me. He showed me the Report of the Commissioners, and stated the embarrassment in which he felt the Government placed by the unconditional appointment. He will inform you that I instantly declared my acquiescence, and that, on the part of my son, I authorized him to state to the House that the Deanery
 603
 Mr. Littleton  said, that from some inquiries which he had made, he was inclined to think that the situation of the individual alluded to was not so bad as he had represented it to be. At the same time the conduct which the hon. Gentleman complained of, was warranted by the Act of Parliament.
 Mr. Robinson  thought the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman, as to the conduct of the Lord Chancellor of Ireland, not at all satisfactory. Of what worth was any public document which derived its chief value from the name of an eminent individual, if a friend of that individual could afterwards come down to the House and say that at the time he signed the document he was utterly ignorant of its contents? He would not attribute any thing like incorrectness to the statement contained in the letter of the noble Lord, but he either knew the contents of the report, or he did not. If he did know the contents of the report, his son should not have accepted of the appointment; and if he did not know anything of its contents, his signature to it was highly improper. This was a dilemma from which the noble Lord could not escape—and he thought the noble Lord's statement very unsatisfactory, although it placed him in somewhat a different light as to the first acceptance of the appointment.
 Mr. Sinclair  approved of continuing the works after they were begun but he was anxious to learn the whole expense to which the country would be further put.
 Mr. George F. Young  said, unless the works were unnecessary, the House would completely stultify itself by voting contrary to its former Resolutions.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, if he wished to urge the House to anything like animadversion, he could not have taken a better course than by entering into the statement which had just been made by the right hon. Secretary. The noble Lord, the Chancellor of Ireland, had been called on to advise the Crown on various matters connected with the Church of Ireland, and being so called, he actually signed a report without being aware of its contents. The noble Lord was called on to guide the Crown—to point out the right path for future conduct: he signed a report, however, allowed that report to come before the House of Commons, backed by the full weight of his authority—of his, the Lord Chancellor's high sanction and recommendation, and then he sent the right hon. Secretary down to tell the House that of the contents of such report, he, the Lord Chancellor, knew nothing whatever. [Mr.  Littleton: 604
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that being connected with the learned body in whose name the petition had been presented, be felt that it was not requisite to solicit the indulgence of the House whilst he entered into the subject of the petition, and whilst he endeavoured to state fairly and candidly what was the origin of the petition itself, what was the real object of it, and what were the sentiments which he entertained upon the views of the petitioners. Although his right hon. friend had expressed an opinion, that his petition would not meet with a favourable reception, he must have done so inadvertently. His right hon. friend surely could not have meant to do such an injustice to the House as to state that a petition upon a most important subject, signed by sixty-two respectable and even eminent individuals, and couched in language perfectly decorous and respectful, could be presented in its proper manner, and be opposed by any Member of the House. As far as he (Mr. Goulburn) was concerned, he could only say, that such an idea had never entered into his contemplation. He would, at once say, that he entirely agreed with his right hon. friend, that the petition which he had been intrusted to present was signed by Gentlemen in every respect as unexceptionable as any in the University of Cambridge. He agreed with him, that amongst the signatures were to be found the names of men distinguished in every branch of scientific and literary attainment; of men whose characters were not to be raised by any observations made in that House, because they were already eminent by their acquirements, and by their great and successful exertions in the cause of science, and by their general endeavours to advance the interests of all that came within their sphere. He might add, that he was proud to number some of them amongst his personal friends; but though he respected them much, he must canvass, their opinions freely. His right hon. friend had told the House, that this petition was very numerously signed by resident members of the University. His
 588 589 590 591 592 593 594 595 596 veto veto 597
 Mr. Spring Rice  rose to address the House upon the Petition of certain Members of the University of Cambridge, presented by him on Friday morning. The petition was entitled to the best, and if he might presume so to say, the most respectful consideration of the House, no less on account of the important subject to which it re-
 570 571 572 573 574 575 576 bonâ fide bonâ fide In the month of January, 1773, Mr. Thomas Blackburne, student of St. Peter's College, having passed the usual examination in his own society, and who, in the senate-house, had applied for the degree of Bachelor in Arts, was rejected. His testimonials and qualifications were as follow:—at the close of the examination, in his own college, the master signed a paper, importing that Mr. Blackburne, with two other persons; had resided for the major
 577 "I, Thomas Blackburne, do hereby declare my full persuasion of the truth of the Christian religion, as exhibited in the Scriptures; that I have hitherto communicated with the Established Church, and have no present intention of communicating with any other." This "supplicat," or petition for his degree, is next presented to the caput; the subscription book is called for, and his name not appearing in its place, the Vice-Chancellor refuses to read his "supplicat," and he is consequently refused his degree. 578 onus 579 580 581 veto liberum veto liberum veto 582 583 584 585 586 587
 Mr. Cobbett  would, under this injunction, say nothing further, than that to his mind the matter was a great deal worse after the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman, than it was before.
 Mr. Cobbett:  The money then called for to be voted away was not for the purpose of being spent in fortifying the harbour of Halifax, but for an outlay on the citadel of that town. To be sure, thirty-four years ago that fortress was thought to be as perfect as it could be well made. He had seen it. The Duke of Kent and his two aides-de-camp were constant in inspecting it, and had been incessant in their attendance during the progress of its improvements. They saw it rise to completion with evident satisfaction, but at a most enormous charge to the country. It had, indeed, been called the Duke of Kent's folly. Half a million of money had been expended on a little island in the harbour of Halifax. [Colonel  Maberly: l. 608 l.
 The Speaker  intimated, that the approach of the hour at which, pursuant to the Resolution of the House, he should leave the
 598
 Mr. Hutt  seconded the Motion. After the repeated complaints he had heard, of many small taxes, which were only defended on the score of necessity, he felt it his duty whenever, the reduction of any sum was proposed, which could be spared, to support that proposition. Here was a large sum wasted, the people wanted relief, and therefore, he would second the Motion.
 Mr. Byng  said, he applied for the introduction of this Bill, not that he thought it might be useful for the county of Middlesex to have a Chairman with a salary, but because he found the Magistrates were divided into four different parties as to who should be the fittest person to fill the office.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, that as he had appeared to be the party introducing this Bill, whereas he was known uniformly to have opposed its introduction at the meetings of the magistracy, he was anxious to state, that it was matter of accident, and owing to his having, in the absence, and at the request of the hon. member for Middlesex, brought up the report of the Committee to which the Petition for the Bill was referred. He held himself, nevertheless, at full liberty to oppose the Bill in its future stages.
 Colonel Wood  did not think, that the Chairman of the Middlesex Sessions was entitled to a salary; at least if a salary were given, let it be given by Government, and let Government have the nomination also of that Chairman. There was a great number of police Magistrates who could take the Chair, who already received payment from the public, and could do the duty. The number of cases was greatly augmented at the Middlesex Sessions. In 1832, there were but 213 cases, and in 1833, there were 1,281. Above 1,000 cases were taken from the Old Bailey, where there was a Judge to try them. There was no reason for sending such an additional number of cases to the Sessions from the Old Bailey, but that they could be tried at less expense at the former than at the latter.
 Colonel Evans  should feel it his duty to
 620 l. l.
 Mr. O'Connell , as belonging to the profession of the law said, there was no principle more clear than this, viz., that no Magistrate should be paid a salary by those under whose control he was; the use of a Barrister as Chairman was, that this opinion and assistance might be taken and respected, but that respect would be much lessened if he was subject to the control of his bro-
 622
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  begged to assure the House that, although he had introduced the Bill by accident, he would not move its Second Reading by accident.
 Mr. Pryme  said, that having been cut short in his address to the House yesterday, by that inflexible monitor—time, he should now conclude the observations he was about to offer to the House, in the same spirit that he commenced them—namely, by strictly confining himself to the subject-matter contained in the petition. Whatever opinions he might entertain with regard to the principle and extent of the concessions which ought to be made to the Dissenters, it was not his intention to obtrude them on the House on the present occasion, but to reserve them until some specific Motion should be brought before them on the subject. He repeated his opinion, that there was nothing of a controversial character in the examinations of the Universities, that could be at all repugnant to the feelings of the Dissenters. Although the concession prayed for would give the Dissenters a vote in the Senate, and in the administration of the general affairs of the University, yet the details of education, and matters of minor consideration, were entirely under the direction and control of the different colleges, and were not governed by the senate of the University. The concession would not, therefore, interfere in the least degree, with the course of academical instruction and discipline of the University. When a candidate for honours came up to receive his degree, he was not asked whether he bad attended the chapel, or performed other requisites. That was left entirely to the college to which he belonged; and it was their duty to attend to the regular performance of them, and give him his testimonials, which were never questioned by the University. The colleges had it in their power to grant dispensations
 624
 Mr. Lennard  said, he had had a good deal of communication with the Dissenters of this country of late, and he verily believed that they did not for a moment contemplate anything but what was just and reasonable. The hon. member for Oldham did not see that they were deprived of any advantages that were worth speaking of; but they were of a different way of thinking, as was proved by the immense number of petitions which had been presented upon the subject. The hon. Member said, it was nothing that the Dissenters were excluded from the professions both of physic and law; for, as the case stood at present, except as a matter of very special favour, a Dissenter could never get to the highest situation in the College of Physicians. True, they might practise, but under restrictions which were degrading. In his opinion, if they considered the obtaining of those degrees as a mere feather in their cap, they ought to be granted a participation in them. Nothing, in his opinion, could be more absurd than in these days, when Dissenters were admitted into that House, when they might become Ministers of State and Privy Councillors—when they might even be elevated to the bench,—to say they were not eligible to become Bachelors and Masters of Arts. It was most absurd to reason upon the letter of James 1st in these days of enlightenment and freedom, for it was written in times when freedom was unknown—and when even speaking of liberty rendered a man liable to all the pains of an inquisition. It was to him extraordinary, that arguments for the exclusion of Dissenters should now be drawn exclusively from the time of the Stuarts. When the Universities were first established, they were national institutions, and comprised the whole body of the people. The object of those who now opposed the claims of the Dissenters would be to make
 630
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  conceived the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman left his argument in the same situation. The first point was, that the grievance of the Dissenters was so small as to afford no grounds of complaint as against the University. If the grievance was small, the remedy was the more simple. With regard to the first point, he would revert to the argument that had been advanced by
 635 636 637
 Colonel Williams  said, that the tone in which the subject had been taken up by the Government was sufficient to induce him to accede to the request of the right hon. Gentleman opposite.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  rose and said, that, as he was not a member of the University from which the petition had emanated, he ought, perhaps, to refrain from offering any observations upon it to the House; but, as the subject was of great importance, and of considerable novelty, and as the petition came before the House with the high recommendation of the important names attached to it, not only from the weight of the personal character of the petitioners themselves but also their situation in the University to which they belonged, and in the country, he might perhaps be pardoned if he deviated from the general rule he had laid down for himself, namely, not to comment upon petitions presented to the Legislature. He trusted, however, that he should be excused if he now, as a member of the Government, and as a member most anxious to consult and support what he felt to be the true mid best interests of the Established Church and of religion, ex-
 633 No, from Mr. Goulburn. 634
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  hoped, that the House would allow the Bill to be introduced without entering into any discussion on the subject. The Report of the Poor Law Commissioners was under the anxious consideration of his Majesty's Government, and a general measure would be submitted
 647
 Mr. Cobbett  knew of many parishes in which the adoption of the plan proposed by the hon. Baronet had been productive of the greatest benefits. In the parish of Farnham, with which he was connected some years ago, there were several hundred families on the poor-rates; but since the adoption of this plan he believed, that the number of paupers was very inconsiderable. With respect to the Poor-Law Commissioners he would only observe, that they had put many gross falsehoods into circulation. It had been proved in petitions presented to that House, that many statements in their Report were utterly and entirely without foundation. He knew, that the passing of the Bill of the hon. Baronet would be productive of the greatest benefit to the country. He, therefore, gave it his hearty support, and trusted, that it would be proceeded with before any of the projects of the Poor-Law Commissioners could be carried into effect.
 Mr. Halcombe  wished to know whether the attention of the First Lord of the Admiralty had been directed to the Report of the Committee of last year on the state of the fisheries? The Report alluded to the want of protection to the fisheries on the English coast, and stated, that the French vessels were much larger than our own, and, from their mode of fishing, they were likely, in the course of a few years, to destroy the fisheries. At present he believed, that more than half the supply of herrings and other fish to the London market was brought by French vessels. The French government prevented the English boats going within nine miles of the coast, but the English Admiralty never interfered in the matter.
 Mr. Tennyson  said, that the office which Lord Auckland now held in Greenwich Hospital being held at the pleasure of the Crown rendered it impossible for him, without contravening the principle of this Bill, at the same time to hold the office of Comptroller of the Exchequer. He did not mean to cast the slightest reflection on the character of Lord Auckland; but he could not help saying, that making the noble Lord an exception to a general rule applicable to all persons who should come after him was, to say the least of it, inconsistent. Without some further explanation, therefore, he could not consent to vote for the proposition of the right hon. Baronet.
 Colonel Evans  said, he had to present a petition from certain noblemen and gentlemen in favour of the Polish Refugees, to which he was anxious to call the serious attention of the House; but before he did so he must express his regret at the great impediments which were thrown (he did not say intentionally) in the way of those who had petitions to present in that House. He had had several, and had come to the House fourteen or fifteen days without being able to get an opportunity of presenting them. This was a serious inconvenience to many Members, and was attended by this additional mischief—that it was often difficult to explain to parties from whom the petitions came, that the delay did not originate with those to whom they had been confided. He mentioned this in the hope that some measure might be adopted in relation to the busi-
 652 653
 Mr. O'Connell  had heard the speech of the noble Lord with surprise and regret. The noble Lord had said, that to grant relief to the Poles would be against precedent. It would not be against precedent, but the contrary. The vials of his wrath were, in so far as words were conceived, poured out on the head of Russia; but, in God's name, why did not our actions correspond with our words? Every man ought to feel it a degradation of his country, that Poland had been suffered to become the victim of the contemptible and brutal despot of Russia. He (Mr. O'Connell) trusted that justice to the national feeling on the subject of the wrongs of Poland would yet be done, and such a strong expression of the public will, pronounced, as would drive the barbarians and ruffians of Russia out of the pale of society. The noble Lord had said, that the Spanish refugees received pecuniary assistance from this country, because they had been our active allies in the Peninsular War; that was not the ground on which that relief was extended to them. They were relieved in the year 1823, not because of any sufferings they endured as our allies, but merely as an act of benevolence. The noble Lord, in speaking of the relief which had been extended by a former Government to the French emigrants, had stated the reason why such relief was granted, to be, the circumstance of this country having encouraged them to revolt. That was the case with a small fraction of those emigrants, but not with the majority. The grant, as in the case of the Spanish refugees, was principally to be regarded as an act of benevolence. He was an advocate for national economy, and he wished it were more attended to in that House than it generally was; but he was not for carrying his notions of national economy so far as to refuse assist-
 657
 Lord Dudley Stuart  regretted the tone and manner which had been displayed in the address of the hon. member for Birmingham on the present occasion. This was not a question to be treated with levity. Never was a more just cause than that of the patriotic Polish exiles; and never was there a cause more seriously deserving the attention of all good men. When that cause was brought before the House last Session, men of all parties and feelings were found united in one common
 660 brutum fulmen l. 661 662 de facto de jure 663
 Mr. Rotch  wished to reply to some observations which had fallen from the hon. and gallant member for Westminster (Colonel Evans). That hon. and gallant Member had asked if he (Mr. Rotch) hall included in his 1,500 cases the 100 and odd that had been illegally tried. In reply, he had to state, that he included only thirty-six in that number—those being the only ones tried by him, and only twenty-five of them were left in custody after their illegal trial. He was left solely to his own discretion respecting them, and he discharged them. With the other eleven that had been left session after session, he had nothing whatever to do after the sentence of transportation, for they were handed over to the Secretary of State. As to the trials, they were illegal from the adoption of a practice which he tried to do away with, but was out-voted, and, therefore, he entirely wiped his hands of them. That practice was introduced by his predecessor, Mr. Const, and he had nothing to do with it. With regard to the case of Palmer, he
 623
 Mr. Rotch  said, this Petition was merely a Petition against giving the present Chairman of the Middlesex Sessions 1,200 l. sub silentio. 618 l. l. l. 619 l l s. l. s.
 Mr. Baines  considered, that the same argument which the hon. Member had used might have been put forward when the House were discussing the Test and Corporation Acts and the question of Catholic Emancipation. He denied, that the Dissenters were keeping back anything, and he took upon himself to state, that it was not the wish of the Dissenters in the smallest degree to interfere with those institutions which were devoted to the support of the established religion of the country. In these institutions they did not ask to participate; all that they wanted was to be admitted to the general institutions of the country. If there were a college instituted for the purpose of giving instructions to the members of the Church of England, they did not wish to partake of those instructions. With respect to the other objections made by the hon. Member relating to the removal of the tests, he believed, that that removal and the argument upon that subject would have applied to the Test and Corporation Acts and the Catholic question. He would ask the House, whether that House had been made the worse by the admission of Catholic Members? Certainly not; and that being so, the question with him was, would the University be made a whit the worse for the admission of Catholics and Dissenters than the House had been? With respect to the question whether the subject was open to the consideration of Parliament, he thought that if it were in the power of king James 1st to impose those restrictions, it was equally
 629
 Mr. Sinclair  gave the prayer of the petition his most cordial support. The feeling in favour of the Poles was very strong, and had been very generally expressed in Scotland. In that country considerable sums had been raised to assist the distressed Poles in Great Britain.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he must interrupt the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary for the Colonies, who had so entirely misrepresented what he (Mr. Goulburn) had stated, that he could not permit it to pass without observation. In explanation, he begged to say, that his argument had been this,—he had first complained, that the parties who had brought forward this petition had not shown that, if the claim were granted, the course of religious instruction and education would be followed; and, in the second place, he, as a father, should object, in the absence of such a course of religious instruction, to intrust his son to the University. He had also urged, that, if a forced system of religious education, it could not be satisfactory to the Dissenters, but he had never said, that, because the Dissenters were admitted, he would not intrust his sons in such an association.
 Mr. Goulburn  admitted, that the two former Amendments had removed some of the objections that he had entertained. He was extremely loath to enter upon a discussion in which there was any thing like a personal matter; but he felt bound in duty to object to the appointment of Lord Auckland. He would much rather that Mr. Ellis, the Clerk of the Pells, should be appointed to the office of Comptroller than the noble Lord. The very principle of the measure of the right hon. Baronet was, that no person holding any office under the Crown should be the Comptroller of the Exchequer. That officer had some check and control over the expenditure of the public money; and it was most desirable that he should be perfectly independent of the Treasury. He approved of the Clause establishing that principle; but, in proposing to make an exception of Lord Auckland, the right hon. Baronet was, in point of fact, destroying his own principle. What was there to prevent future Governments from claiming similar exceptions? It was most objectionable that the first appointment should be a violation of the principle laid down in the Bill.
 Mr. Goulburn  wished to know whether any steps had been taken to secure the rights of British fishermen. In the case alluded to, the fishermen were acting in strict conformity to the provisions of the Treaty, and yet they were seized and carried into a French port by armed vessels. In the recent aggression an English fisherman had been killed.
 Mr. Warburton  observed, that the proposition which the right hon. Baronet had made for rendering the office of Comptroller of the Exchequer independent was in conformity with a proposition which had been thrown out by his hon. friend, the member for Middlesex. Nominating any person to the office who held another situation during good behaviour would be such a violation of the principle of this proposition that he should certainly resist it.
 Mr. Brocklehurst  said, that his reasons for going into this detail were, that the country might know what he was doing.
 Mr. Brocklehurst  rose, in pursuance of a notice he had given of his intention to move for a Select Committee, "To inquire into the constitution of the South-Sea Company, with a view to pay off or transfer the funds of the said Company to the Consolidated Fund, and to provide for the payment of the dividends thereon by the Bank of England." The hon. Member said, that in bringing this Motion under the consideration of the House, a very slight glance only at the origin of the South-Sea Company, and its progress to the present time, might be requisite, as we had to deal with it as we found it, rather than in reference to what might be its course of proceeding in times gone by. Its origin took place in the reign of Queen Anne, for during the long war with France in that reign, the payment of the sailors of the royal navy being neglected, they received tickets instead of money, and were frequently obliged to sell those tickets at a discount of forty or fifty per cent. By this and other means the debts of the nation unprovided for by Parliament, amounting to 9,000,000 l. 638 639 l. l d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. 640 l. in limine
 Mr. Herries  agreed with his right hon.
 651
 Mr. Wilks  said, that the sentiments contained in the petition were the sentiments of the county generally. The hon. member of Oldham stated, that Middlesex collected all the wealth of the country, but it should be recollected also what a vast quantity of pauperism and crime resorted to it. The operation of the County-rates in that county was most ruinous; in Bethnal-green, and many other districts, the rates could not be collected, notwithstanding all the efforts that were made. It would excite no surprise when it was proposed to add 1,200 l.
 Mr. Wilks  said that, connected as he had the honour to be with the Dissenters, it would be heedless and unthankful in him to allow that petition to lie on the table without saying a few words upon the liberal and enlightened body from whom it had emanated. The characters of the hon. members of the University who had signed that petition were eminent, not only in this country, but abroad, where their names were connected with the science and literature of the age. It was doubly acceptable to the Dissenters that these eminent individuals had come forward unsolicited and unsought, which must reflect strong lustre upon their benevolence and liberality, and
 631 Hon. Member 632
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  thought there could be no sense of shame left in the British Government after what had already passed. England had disgracefully deserted Poland. The people of England had already, in a great measure, taken the domestic Government of the country out of the hands of Ministers; and they would soon see the necessity of taking the foreign Government out of their hands also. The noble Lord had said, that the mere circumstance of this country signing the Treaty of Vienna, was not to be understood as guaranteeing the observance of that treaty. No honest man, in the private transactions of life would say so. Lord Castlereagh had expressly said, both verbally in that House, and in subsequent treaties, that this country, in signing the Treaty of Vienna, guaranteed the integrity of Poland; and Lord Castlereagh was, in his opinion, a far better man than the noble Viscount. Lord Castlereagh, before he died, demanded, in the name of England, the restoration of ancient Poland. Little did Lord Castlereagh think that, in the short space of ten years after his death, England would seek to hide herself in mean and paltry subterfuges, in attempting to justify her desertion of Poland. The noble Viscount admitted, that
 658 l. l. l. 659
 Mr. Estcourt  said, that the House ought to be on its guard, and not be led away by the fact of that being a private Bill. He always understood, that the duties of the Magistracy were performed gratuitously, and that with great advantage to the country. Though that was the first time the question had been broached in that House,
 621
 Mr. Spring Rice  observed, that the Government had not been deficient in sympathy for the Poles. While he gave full credit to the hon. and gallant Gentleman, and to the noble Lord, for the zeal they exhibited in the cause of the Poles, he would take the liberty to caution the hon. member for Birmingham against being too ready to make a plunge into war without reference to the consequences. When it was fairly proved, that Government could interfere with propriety, assistance was afforded. He was not called upon to state the peculiar circumstances which would justify a vote of money; but he would suggest, that amongst the inconveniences that would arise from giving too freely the bounty of the Crown, it would tempt foreigners to be careless in their proceedings, because they would suppose they might find a shelter and settlement here. He wished it to be clearly understood, that when a case was made out for the bestowal of the bounty of the Crown—when it appeared that such a grant would not be liable to objection in point of principle, as in the instance of a grant being permanent—then his Majesty's Government would not shrink from administering the relief that they were now stigmatised for refusing.
 Mr. Cobbett  expressed his astonishment that any Gentleman would propose that the whole country should be taxed to pay a Magistrate for the county of Middlesex. What right had the county of Wilts or the county of Dorset to pay the salary of a Middlesex Magistrate? He was against the payment of even police Magistrates. The county of Middlesex drew towards it all the wealth of every other country, and then taxed every other county to keep it in a state of peace. He should certainly give his opposition to the Bill.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, the House had witnessed yesterday, in the course of the discussion, what no Member could have expected, a Minister of the Crown trying to get that House to consent to what a former monarch was driven from the Throne for attempting, and the present Royal Family put upon the Throne to prevent. The right hon. Gentleman had entertained them with a tough story. He gave them a long account of the exclusions from the Universities; but he had left a chasm, and that chasm was not to be filled up by such an authority as had been relied upon by the right hon. Gentleman,—namely, Dr. John Jebb, who was the most determined, bitter, persevering, and implacable enemy of the Church of England, from the day he first took up his pen, to the hour of his death. He was surprised that such an authority should have been relied upon by a Minister of the Crown. He would take another authority, which could not err, because it related to facts which unquestionable document would fully substantiate. He alluded to Hume's history of this country, and especially during the reign of King James 2nd. That monarch had attempted the very same thing that was sought by the present petitioners; and he must beg the attention of the House to one very short passage from Hume, which, as the hon. Gentleman opposite had read passages from Dr. John Jebb's writings, he (Mr. Cobbett) must read. The passage was as follows:—"Father Francis, a Benedictine, was recommended by the King's mandate to the University of Cambridge, for the degree of Master of Arts; and as it was usual for the University to confer that degree on persons eminent for their learning, without regard to their religion, and as they had even lately admitted the Secretary to the Ambassador of Morocco, the King on that account thought himself the batter entitled to compliance." Thus it would seem, that the King entertained the notion, that, as the liberal University of Cambridge had not hesitated to admit the Secretary to the Ambassador of Morocco, he should be excused if he recommended a Roman Catholic monk for the degree of Master of Arts. But what course was followed on this occasion by the University? Did that body accede to the Royal mandate? It was important to look at the conduct of the University in this instance, because hon. Gentlemen had been told, that the University had always been ready to admit them, and that the Church had entertained no objec-
 626 627 Dictionnairedes Grandes Hommes 628
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that the hon. Member had no right to read his speech.
 The Speaker  said, that it was undoubtedly out of order for a Member to read his speech, but to read documents and refer to details was not only not out of order, but a general adoption of the course would lead to the avoidance of many mistakes.
 Sir Harry Verney  was glad to find, that the situation of the unfortunate Poles could never be mentioned in that House without calling forth the strongest sympathy for those victims of Russian oppression. He hoped, that his Majesty's Ministers would take care that no greater accession of strength should be permitted to
 654
 Sir James Graham  said, that after what had passed he did not think he should be justified in pressing for a division on the Clause relating to the appointment of his noble friend to this office. He should, however, persist in introducing the clause establishing the principle which had been adverted to, although he would not undertake the responsibility of bringing forward the other clause.
 Sir James Graham , in moving the further consideration of the Report of the Exchequer Receipt Bill, said, that he intended to propose that two alterations should be made in the Bill. The first alteration he intended to propose was in consequence of a suggestion made by the right hon. member for Harwich (Mr. Herries). He (Sir James Graham) had proposed, that the Comptroller should only be removable from his office in case of the Address of one or both Houses of Parliament; but the right hon. Gentleman suggested, that in case of such removal the Comptroller might consider himself entitled to compensation. He, (Sir James Graham) therefore, proposed an Amendment, that in such case the Comptroller should not be entitled to compensation, but that the office should be subject to alteration and under the control of Parliament. He had also proposed that no person holding the office of Comptroller should be able to hold any office in the appointment of the Crown during pleasure. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Herries) had objected that the Clause was not sufficiently comprehensive, as there were persons holding office during pleasure connected with the Government, and yet not directly appointed by the Crown—namely, such as the Secretary of the Treasury and the Under-Secretary of State. He (Sir James Graham) had felt the force of the objection, and intended, therefore, to propose that the Clause should be amended, so that it would run that no person holding the office of Comptroller of the Exchequer should hold any office during the pleasure of the Crown, or any appointment under the Crown. Some objection had been made to Lord Auckland being appointed to the office of Comptroller of the Exchequer as he held the office of Treasurer of Greenwich Hospital. He (Sir James Graham) did not consider, that there would be any serious objection to the appointment of Lord Auckland; but, to remove all doubt, he would propose a Clause to meet the case of Lord Auckland, which stated that that noble Lord should be allowed to hold both offices. If this arrangement was effected, the noble Lord (Lord Auckland) would give up two pensions he then held—namely, one of 400 l. l. 650
 Sir James Graham  said, that there was one fact connected with the last case which had escaped attention, namely, that the English fishing-boat was within two miles of the prescribed limits. Whenever the agreement existing between the two Governments respecting the fisheries was not violated every care should be taken to protect the fishermen.
 Sir John Tyrell  was anxious to put a question to the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs on a matter of great interest and importance. The subject he alluded to related to the seizure of four British vessels engaged in the fishing trade so far back as July last. Great anxiety was felt on the subject by many persons engaged in the fisheries; and they entertained hopes, that they should obtain some redress through the agency of the noble Lord. He had no wish to prejudice a question which might not be yet decided; but he hoped the noble Lord was in a situation to inform him what had been the result of the negotiation on the subject. The anxiety that was felt by persons engaged in the fishily, trade had been much increased in consequence of the aggression on the part of an armed French ship on some English fishing-vessels. In that case, a person had been killed, and the Coroner's Jury had returned a verdict of "Wilful Murder."
 Sir Samuel Whalley  begged to call the attention of the House to a Petition from the vestry of St. Pancras, remonstrating against giving a large salary to the holder of what had been hitherto an honorary office. The county-rates of Middlesex had, in the course of the last few years increased from 35,000 l. l. l. l. 617
 Sir Samuel Whalley  hoped, that England would soon be in a condition to give that succour and relief to the emigrant Poles which she had already been known to afford to other loss imperative, if not less worthy claims. He thought, that the Poles had a better claim upon our bounty than the Spanish or French, who were now receiving liberal allowances from this country.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that every person of a feeling and humane disposition must spontaneously respond to the sentiments of sympathy which had that evening been expressed in favour of the Poles; but the feelings which himself and colleagues might entertain on the subject, as individuals, were a matter very different from voting away the public money in their capacity of responsible Ministers
 655 656
 Viscount Palmerston  was well aware, that the question had for some time past
 648
 Viscount Palmerston  would only observe, that the subject was one of considerable difficulty, and was under the attention of the Government; he, therefore, did not think, that it was desirable to go on with the discussion.
 Colonel Williams  said, that as this petition was, in fact, a consequence of a communication of correspondence he had had with the University of Cambridge, he might be expected to take some part in the present discussion. As, however, he had a motion on this same subject, and as it had been thought advisable that this motion should be postponed till the 17th of April, and as the hon. member for Lancashire had allowed his (Colonel Williams's) motion to take precedence on that day, he would reserve any observations he had to make on the subject till he brought forward his motion.
 Mr. O'Connell  did not require the apology that he might derive from the distinct allusions which the hon. Baronet had made to him to speak on that question. It was one which involved the cause of religion and the civil rights of all classes of Christians. It was one which related to freedom of conscience, and had the beneficial tendency to disconnect the exercise of a spiritual feeling from the influence of temporal advantages. It was a question upon which all Members of that House should express themselves, and if he (Mr. O'Connell) had no better motive for rising than to disclaim any intention of discourtesy towards the hon. Baronet, it was sufficient. There was not a Gentleman in that House whom he respected more for his invariably good deportment, and the perfect candour with which he expressed his opinions. But his praise must stop there. The hon. Baronet's theology was unsound—his politics were not more sound, and his exclusiveness of principle—it would be discourteous to call it bigotry (though that was the name it would receive in any other place)—was what he considered worst of all. It was such as he should have expected to have found locked up in the cells of Salamanca during the days of the Inquisition; it was bad there, or here, or any where; and he did not think it improved, though delivered so chauntingly by the hon. Baronet himself. It aimed at the legislative power over property. The hon. Baronet argued, that what was granted as a gift by Government to a public body, bore a parallel to a private gift to an individual; certainly
 691 692 693 l premunire l l 694 695 696
 Mr. Halcombe  said, that he had an interesting communication to make to the House, relative to the drawing up of the Report of the Warwick Borough Committee. It would be in the recollection of the House, that he had, on a former occasion, asked a question of the hon. and gallant Chairman of that Committee, whether the Report was drawn up by a certain individual, and that the answer of the hon. and gallant Officer was, that "he knew nothing about it." The hon. and gallant Officer had also on the same occasion interrupted him (Mr. Halcombe) in the speech he was then making, and said, that he was ignorant of the matter in debate, and of all others. He regretted, that any hon. Member of that House should have been guilty of such language,
 713 animus
 Mr. Halcombe  felt distressed, that he should be obliged to make these remarks, but he had a duty to perform, and he would not flinch from it. With reference to the remarks that fell from the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair, he begged to state, he had a Motion to submit to the House. He considered it important that the Committee should take care, that the trust reposed in them by the House should be properly discharged, and that they ought not to allow any person to meddle with the evidence, or tamper with the drawing up of the Report, That was one
 714
 Mr. O'Connell  hoped that his hon. friend, the member for Bath, would not persist in his objections to the second reading of the Bill, as it might be greatly amended in Committee. It was generally admitted, that it was desirable to alter the law respecting the forfeiture of felons' property, as it at present led to the infliction of unequal punishments. He had no hesitation in saying, that the law on that and some other points, was in a most anomalous state. In all other countries, a man on conviction had to pay the charge of his trial out of any property he might have; but in this country, the charge fell on the county-rate, and thus the expense of the trial had to be paid by innocent persons. He would have the property of criminals got at in all cases, whether in their own possession or in the hands of trustees. From such property the expenses of the trial and the cost of maintaining the prisoner should be deducted, and the residue should go to his family, or be returned on his discharge. He (Mr. O'Connell) admitted, that the machinery of the Bill was objectionable, but he thought that it might be amended in Committee. He should prefer a wholesale amendment of the law; he would have the law in such a state that every man could readily understand it; but if he could not get a code, he would get the next best thing, namely, an amendment of the law in detail, to as great an extent as possible.
 Mr. Wynn  regretted very much, that, when Bills like that under consideration were brought forward, that the law ad-of the Crown were not present. He regretted that they could not have the attendance of one of those learned gentlemen, but surely the other ought to have been present. In consequence of making such constant changes in the detail of the Criminal-laws many difficulties had arisen. It, therefore, was desirable that great caution should be used. It was easy to say, that this or that part of the law was defective and wrong; but the difficulty was in finding an adequate remedy. The whole of the Criminal-law was under the revision of a Commission; and it would be much better to wait for a general measure than proceed by detail. If there was any probability of such a measure being brought forward during the present Session, he would recommend the hon. Member to withdraw his Bill. At any rate, this measure appeared to him to require a great deal of consideration.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes , seeing there was no intention of opposing the second reading of this important Bill, which should have his best support, would only make one remark, or rather suggestion, to the hon. and learned member for Knares-
 719
 Mr. Lennard  was surprised to hear the noble Lord say, that no capital punishment had been inflicted for any of the offences alluded to for some years, for he believed that, in the very last year, one person had suffered death for stealing a letter. He thought that those hon. Members who brought forward measures of this kind were hardly dealt with. When a Motion was brought forward, as in the case of the late Sir James Macintosh, to effect considerable alterations in the Criminal-law, he was told, that that was wholesale legislation,—that in such cases the House ought to proceed with caution, and go to alterations in detail; but now, when hon. Gentlemen came to individual cases, they were told to wait for a Report which
 721
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, he was happy to inform the House, and it would be highly satisfactory to the friends of humanity throughout the country to learn, that, such was the growing repugnance to the punishment of death, and such its diminution consequent upon that feeling, and upon legislative enactments, that the Corporation of the City of London had felt at liberty to discharge, as unnecessary, one of the two salaried executioners, whom, for a number of years they had been in the habit of retaining in their service. He trusted, indeed, that the effect of the present, and of similar humane propositions, which he heartily supported, would be, shortly, to render unnecessary the other of those personages as a regular servant of the Corporation; and that only occasional resort would be had to the services of such an officer of justice.
 Mr. Tennyson  said, that he had always protested against that part of the Reform Bill, which added considerable districts to the smaller towns. It was evident, that the effect of such an arrangement must be to overwhelm the towns with the constituency of the neighbouring districts. In his opinion, in every case in which there could not be found in the borough a sufficient number to form a town constituency, the borough so deficient ought to have been put into Schedule A. In the case now before the House, it appeared, that there were 18,000 acres in the immediate neighbourhood of Buckingham that belonged to a noble Duke, against whom it was alleged that he had caused certain buildings to be erected on this his property, for the purpose of creating votes. That such advantages would be taken might have been expected. He had no doubt it would he discovered, that this was a practice which had been resorted to to a very great extent throughout the country. He might even say, that the Reform Bill, by adding the large districts to the towns, intended such an increase of the constituency. What other effect could it be said to contemplate, when, according to its provisions, the erection of any cow-house, or other ignoble building,
 724
 Colonel Evans  admitted, that the mere fact of building houses on property was what could not be objected to; but the building of houses for the express purpose of creating votes was as certainly a deviation from the object and spirit of the Reform Bill, and a revival, to that extent, of a species of the ancient corruption. The object of the Reform Act was to prevent the building of houses, for the purpose of overcoming the free and open constituencies. If they took a large district; and
 725
 Mr. Hughes Hushes  said, he was charged to present to the House a petition bearing the signatures of 1,563 of his constituents, inhabitants and house-holders of the city of Oxford. The petitioners stated, that in all well-regulated Governments one of the first duties to the governed is to endeavour to apportion all punishments as near as possible to the extent of the crimes committed; that they could not help feeling that, in the late trial at Dorchester, of the six agricultural labourers for administering a certain unlawful oath and engagements, of which they were found guilty, the sentence was excessively severe, particularly when the petitioners took into consideration the probability of their ignorance of violating the laws, and their disclaimer in one of the following rules produced on their trial—namely, "That no person should be admitted to their meetings when drunk; that no obscene songs or toasts should be allowed; and that they should not countenance any violence, or violation of the
 726 727
 Colonel Evans  condemned the indiscriminate denunciation of Trades' Unions. Such indiscriminate denunciations were not justifiable in that House or elsewhere. He thought that trades had a right to
 732
 Mr. Hughes Hughes , after what had passed, begged to remind the House that the petition had not been presented at his instance. It was prepared in the course of yesterday, and he had never heard of it till its arrival this morning. After the course he had lately taken in the case of Baron Smith, the House would believe that he would be one of the last persons to encourage petitions of interference with the judicial office. He had seen it his duty to give expression to the views and opinions of so large a body of his constituents, who, it should be remembered, did not uphold or attempt to justify the conduct of these men, but only expressed a calm and temperate opinion, that the punishment awarded to them was disproportioned to their offence.
 Mr. Rotch  could not refrain from ex-
 730
 Mr. Rotch , in moving the Order of the Day for the second reading of this Bill, said, that the object of it was so plain, that it would not have been necessary for him to say a word about it, had it not been for some observations that had been made on the opposite side of the House at the time of the first reading of the Bill. He admitted, that all the felons' property which fell into the management of the Government was properly administered, and the Report showed, that it was distributed with justice and due consideration. But when he saw, by the same Report, that not a hundredth part of this species of property was accounted for, he felt that there still remained much to be done. He found in that Report the sum of 3,192 l l l s d l 715 l l 716 l l l s
 Mr. Shaw  would not, at that advanced period of the time allotted for the morning sitting, do more than refer to one point alluded to in the speech of the hon. and learned Member (Mr. O'Connell) he meant that which related to the University of Dublin. He agreed with the hon. Member that the system of granting degrees to Dissenters, worked well in that University, but he entirely differed from him as to that forming a precedent of any value for regulating the practice of the English Universities. The great difference between the two cases was this: at Oxford and Cambridge residence was essentially necessary for keeping a term, whereas in Dublin it was not necessary; but the terms were kept by answering at examinations held every term for purpose. The hon. and learned member for the town of Cambridge (Mr. Pryme) was altogether mistaken in supposing, that these were only honorary degrees which were conferred on non-residents. So far from it—not above one-eighth, that is, about 200 out of 1,600 under-graduates, resided within the walls of the college; and those from convenience and not of necessity, residing every day in the term, and attending every lecture and every chapel, would not keep the terms without passing the examination, while passing the examination alone would keep the term, although the undergraduate did not reside a day or attend one chapel or one lecture. He should at the same time state, that in practice probably about half the undergraduates, or 800 out of 1,600, lived within such distance of the college as enabled them to avail themselves of the advantage of the lectures; but then they resided in the houses and under the care of their parents or guardians, so as not to require the same strict discipline in religious exercises as was requisite at the English Universities. The whole difficulty as regarded the latter resolved itself into one of academic discipline, as had been well stated by his right hon. friend (Mr. Goulburn), for to admit Dissenters, you must not only infringe upon the discipline of the college on the one hand, but leave the dissenting students without religious instruction from teachers of their own persuasion on the other, thus either the discipline of the Universities must be lowered to meet the principles of the Dissenters,
 697 698
 Mr. Shaw  said, no hon. Member who had preceded him could deprecate more strongly than he would any course tending to the encouragement of Trades' Unions; yet he thought there was a still stronger objection to the petition, as interfering with the independence of judgment in the Judges, and the prerogative of mercy in the Crown. It was quite competent for the petitioners, if they desired a change in the law, to petition that House in favour of such change; or, if they thought the criminals in question deserving objects of mercy, to petition the Crown on their behalf. He, on a recent occasion, had warned the House, that if they, on light and trivial grounds, entertained complaints or the judicial acts of the Judges, their Table would be crowded with petitions like the present, and that House would be converted into a most inefficient and unsatisfactory court of appeal. He trusted, too, that mercy was not to be administered by the Sovereign through the medium of a popular assembly, but preserved and guarded by the Crown as a prerogative peculiarly its own. On this latter account, he was almost sorry that the right hon. Baronet had even intimated what was likely to be the decision of the Crown in the matter; although his opinion and the right hon. Baronet's, were in complete accordance on the subject.
 Mr. Aglionby  fully agreed with hon. Members, that the Bill should be allowed to go before a Committee; but he was decidedly opposed to the proposition of the hon. member for Marylebone, for placing felons' and bankrupts' property upon the same footing, inasmuch as it would be an inducement for prosecutors to press evidence, in order to secure a conviction. Forfeitures were relics of the feudal times, when escheats went to the lord, and should not be tolerated at the present day. He trusted to see them no longer disgracing our Criminal Code.
 Mr. Warburton  said, it was not his wish or intention at that moment to discuss the policy or legality of Trades' Unions. The question, however, which he begged to ask, in favour of these accused persons, was whether, previous to the interpretation of the Act by the learned Judge, the law was so clear that a man might and ought to know whether, if he committed such an offence as that committed by these persons, he could be sentenced, under that law, to transportation? What was the difference, then, between a law which was not defined, and the law of Caligula, which was written in such small characters that few could read it? It appeared that, in the instance then under their consideration, it had taken the learned Judge two days to weigh the question, in respect to the punishment to be awarded. Was not this at least an admission that the law was so obscure that it required a Judge to ponder over it for two days? How, then, could a poor agricultural labourer know whether he infringed the law or not? He did not agree in the principle which had been laid down by the hon. member for Oxford, that they were not to consider the efficacy of example, because that was the principle upon which every sentence was founded. What he contended for was, that if the law was not clear, they should not visit these parties with a severe punishment in a case where a forced construction was put upon the law. He would maintain, that the law was not clear; and, however expedient it might be to introduce a Bill to
 731
 Mr. Hardy  hoped, that it never would be the intention of the Ministers to advise the Crown to grant a mitigation of the sentence in this case. He was not surprised that this petition should have emanated from Oxford, if it were true, as had been stated by the hon. Gentleman, that the petitioners knew nothing of Trades' Unions; because, if they had known anything about them, he was convinced no such petition would have been forwarded by them. Of all curses, that of the Trades' Unions was the most abominable—not merely as affecting the masters, but more especially the poor unfortunate people who were compelled to join these unions. He had witnessed, in too many instances, the lamentable effects produced on those unfortunate persons who were compelled, by a system of the most horrible tyranny, to join unions of this description. He had known cases where parties were called upon to subscribe sums of money previous to their becoming members; and, if one-fifth part of the money thus spent were exacted by the Government, these very parties would at once have denounced such a tax as one of the most tyrannical nature. And yet men who might be earning 15 s s 729
 Mr. Roebuck  concurred with the hon. Member, that it was desirable to amend the law as regarded the forfeiture of the property of persons convicted of felony. It was very well known, however, that the Criminal-law was undergoing revision before a Commission composed of very competent persons; and he had no doubt, that they would be able greatly to improve it, and make it more systematic than it was at present. Under these circumstances, he thought that it would not be proper to proceed with a partial enactment. He thought, that it was much better that definite rules should be laid down for the whole law, than that they should proceed only on particular points. The hon. Member, however, had not proposed to put a stop to the forfeiture of the property of convicted criminals, but merely recommended a different distribution of
 717
 Mr. Hume  rose to order, and begged to know, whether the hon. Member had any Motion to submit to the House?
 Mr. Philip Howard  said, in a commercial country, the security of the conveyance of letters, was one of great moment. Considering the amount of property transmitted through the medium of the Post-office, the breach of trust, and difficulty of detection, great caution should be observed, and no light penalties inflicted upon those depredators who usually plundered the letters of the poor—the hard-earned savings of the widow and the orphan; because the wily villains well knew that the needy and unprotected could with difficulty recover the loss, or prosecute to conviction. From the loss of letters, cases of intense misery had occurred; and when the House considered, that many charitable institutions mainly owed their support to remittances sent in letters, it would be felt humanity was not merely on one side. To repeal the present law, without the substitution of rigorous penalties, would not be a public benefit.
 Mr. Spring Rice  observed, that they had reason to be greatly obliged to the right hon. member for Tamworth, for the great improvements which he had been the means of effecting in the Criminal-law; but it was rather hard, that the whole merit of the changes which had taken place should be transferred to that right hon. Baronet, when, as the House must recollect, so much of what he did had its origin amongst men whose political principles were the same as those of the present Administration. Did they forget the labours of Sir James Macintosh and others in the great work of ameliorating our criminal jurisprudence? Then it was not to be forgotten, that the improvements most sought after were actually those which the present Government had themselves introduced within the short period which elapsed since their accession to office;—for example, the law relating to forgery had undergone a most salutary change; and the laws relating to the coin had been under the consideration of the present Lord Chief Justice of the Court of King's Bench, while Attorney-General; and efforts were being made, and to some extent had been made with success, to place them upon a footing of simplicity, clearness, and certainty. Thus much he thought it necessary to say, in defence of those to whom some portion of the improvement ought, in fairness, to be attributed, though a disposition to do otherwise had, in the course of the present discussion, appeared to prevail. As to the present Motion, he must beg to observe, that the House ought to proceed most cautiously, lest, by carrying individual
 722
 Mr. Ewart , pursuant to his notice, moved for leave to bring in "a Bill for abolishing capital punishment in cases of letter-stealing, and returning from transportation, and in certain cases of burglary." The hon. Member said, that within the last few years the punishment of death had been taken away from seven offences which theretofore were capital: much of this was owing to the great and praiseworthy exertions of the right hon. Baronet, the member for Tamworth. By returns which had been laid before the House, since that change had been made in the law, the number of commitments for those offences in London and Middlesex had decreased, as compared with the same length of time before the change, and the number of convictions and punishments had increased, as compared with the number of commitments. This was perfectly in accordance with all that experience had shown of the statistics of crime,—that where the extreme severity of punishment had been changed for a milder, but more certain punishment, crime had decreased. There was no reason why it should not be so in the cases of the crimes to which his Motion referred, in all of which he thought the punishment of death much too great for the crime. It might be said, in objection to his Motion, that they ought to wait to ascertain what would be the Report of the Commissioners who had been appointed to consider the state of the Criminal-law; but he thought that might be too long; but, at all events, he did not think, whatever might be the nature of that report, it ought to affect a case of this kind. Our Criminal-law had heretofore the character of being unchristian, inhuman, and, in many instances, barbarous in its punishments. Much of that had been removed; but much still remained; and the cases to which his Motion referred were of that class in which the severity of capital punishment ought to be removed.
 The Speaker  said, that even a Motion would not relieve the House from its difficulty. Any discussion as to who drew up the Report was improper. The Committee presented the Report to the House, and they were responsible for it. He never knew, that it was of any consequence to inquire who did or who did not draw up a Report of the kind, inasmuch as the House always placed its confidence in the Committee which presented the Report.
 Sir Harry Verney  presented a petition from the borough of Buckingham, complaining, that a noble proprietor of land included in the present limits of the borough had erected buildings of small value since the Reform Act, whereby he had obtained a command over a considerable number of votes. The hon. Baronet
 723
 Mr. Henry L. Bulwer  really did not see how the House could possibly interfere, by way of enactment, to prevent persons from erecting buildings upon their land. The only way in which the House could counteract the evil of a creation of dependent constituencies was, by passing a measure to establish the Vote by Ballot. This was the sure method of getting rid of all the improperly preponderating influences.
 Mr. Henry L. Bulwer , in the absence of the Secretary for the Home Department, begged leave to ask the right hon. Baronet, the First Lord of the Admiralty, whether there existed on the part of his Majesty's Government any intention to adopt measures for inducing a mitigation of the punishment awarded to those persons by the sentence passed by the noble Baron who had tried the offenders? The Act, which was passed during the French revolution, for the suppression of societies, did not, he apprehended, bear upon the present case. The prisoners had been sentenced under an Act which did not meet instances similar to that to which the petition referred. He should think it would be much better that the Act which applied to the suppression of unlawful societies should be better defined; because it appeared that in this case it took the learned Judge two days to consider whether he could pass sentence upon the accused. He availed himself of this opportunity to state, that it was his intention to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the existing Act. He wished, however, on the present occasion, to ask the right hon. Baronet whether it was the intention of his Majesty's Ministers to recommend a mitigation of the punishment in this case?
 Mr. Henry L. Bulwer  explained. His object was, not to encourage these proceedings, but, looking to the uncertainty of the existing law, to bring in a Bill to amend and define that law.
 Sir James Graham  trusted that, after what had fallen from the hon. member for Bridport, he might be allowed to offer a word or two in explanation, as that hon. Gentleman had, he was persuaded, quite unintentionally, mis-stated a fact. It had been stated by the hon. member for Bridport, and by the hon. Gentleman who preceded him, that it had taken the learned Judge two days to consider whether the law applied to this case or not. Now as he (Sir James Graham) was informed, the learned Baron stated fully, after the investigation had been gone into and when he summed up his charge to the Jury, that the statute in question did apply. He said this without any hesitation upon the subject; but he did that which, as a merciful Judge, he was bound to do—after laying down the law to the Jury in his charge; the Jury, having heard the facts of the case, and the law as described by the Judge, found a verdict of guilty against the prisoners, without hesitation; the learned Baron did not hesitate as to the application of the law, but with regard to the extent of mercy which might be shown in respect to the punishment of an offence which at the present period was one of great importance. He certainly should be sorry that anything which passed in that House should prejudice the question; and he was bound to say, that, looking at the circumstances of the country in regard to this subject, agreeing as he did in the opinion which had been expressed by the hon. member for Bridport, that punishments were not inflicted merely as carrying with them vengeance against the offender, but in order to make an example which should induce men to reflect and turn away from similar crimes, and thinking with the hon. member for Bridport, that this was the object of punishments, he was bound to say, as at present advised (and he did not see such a necessity), that no ground existed to induce the Government to advise the Crown to mitigate the sentence which had been passed in this instance.
 Sir James Graham  said, he was not able to give the hon. Gentleman any such assurance, as the matter was one which did not fall within the duties of his office. But he did not believe, as at present advised, that it was the intention of his Majesty's Ministers to recommend to his Majesty a mitigation of the punishment
 728
 Sir Robert Inglis  said: * * 675 fumum ex fulgore parturiunt montes 676 Cries of Yes from Mr. O'Connell, and other Members 677 l * * 
 
 The following payments are made to the University of Oxford: 
 £. s. d. 
 For a Preacher 7 19 6 
 For a Professor of Divinity 11 6 2 
 For a Professor of Law 35 3 0 
 For a Professor of Physic 36 1 0 
 For a Professor of Modern History 371 8 0 
 For a Professor of Botany 182 18 0 The first payment, for instance, was made by the Abbot of Westminster, and the Prior and Convent of the same, to the Chancellor, Masters, and Scholars of the University of Oxford, under indenture, 20 Henry 7th, as a real charge for ever. It was originally 10 l 678 l l l l l l nient precedent for the use of any gentlemen who may have any bonds outstanding against them. I may add, that the payment was suspended during those years (1640–1660) and never but at that period, to which so many other circumstances since 1830 recall our attention. 679 l l * * 680 Standard appropriated "for one particular class," in Mr. Baines's words (and that class the Church) it is not easy to see what advantage the dissenters, according to the admission here made on their behalf by Mr. Baines, can gain by their present attempts. 681 682 683 684 685 686 * * 687 688 Dominus Illuminatio mea 689 690
 Sir Robert Peel:  I stand, in some respects, in the same situation with the noble Lord who has just sat down—like him I enjoyed, for a considerable period, the honour of representing one of the Universities—like him, I have ceased to enjoy that honour; but I remain also, like him, animated by an unabated desire to advance the permanent welfare of the Universities, convinced, as I am, that it is intimately interwoven with the well-being of the community at large. I shall address myself, without further preface, to the main question at issue; and I must say, that if every hon. Member would adopt that course, and consent to omit a long irrelevant exordium, it would tend much to the economy of the public time, and to the despatch of the public business. The prayer of this petition has been supported upon three distinct grounds, to each of which I shall advert, if the short period to which I am limited will permit, in succession. The first ground is, that the system of education pursued at the Universities, coupled with the regulations adopted by certain other public institutions, imposes civil disabilities on the Dissenters which they are most anxious to see removed. Now, I at once admit, that if such civil disabilities exist, they ought to be removed. I admit, that if there be a system of education, and of regulations connected with education, adopted by public bodies acting under the authority and sanction of the State, which confers advantages of the nature of civil privileges on one class of the King's subjects that are withholden from another, that system ought to undergo a modification, for the purpose of placing all, in so far as political or civil capacities are concerned, upon the footing of equality. The Dissenters
 703 704 705 706 707 708 709 710 Pryme: Palmerston: 711 712
 Sir Ronald Ferguson  rose, but the cries of "No, no," were so loud and general, that the hon. and gallant Member sat down.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  did not think, that the forfeiture of a criminal's property should be made a part of the punishment. The property, in the first place, should be like that of a bankrupt's; and should be made to go, as far as possible, in compensation of the wrong done. He thought, that compensation should be given to others besides the prosecutor; for if that limited principle were acted upon in cases similar to that of Fauntleroy, where many persons were cheated, great injustice would be done. He supported the second reading of the Bill.
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  said, that the evil complained of by the petitioners, who had been advocates for the Reform Bill, with which they were now dissatisfied, had arisen from seven large agricultural parishes having been added to the borough. No doubt buildings had been erected in some few instances, for the purpose of creating votes; but if that had been done on one side, it might be done on the other. If only five or six such buildings had been erected by a person possessing 5,000 acres of land, the evil could not be very great. He did not think it requisite to enter into the merits of the case.
 Lord Howick  was unwilling to offer opposition to a Motion of this kind, but he did hope, that when the hon. Member considered the circumstances, he would consent to withdraw his Motion. The hon. Member had adverted to the Commission now occupied on the state of our Criminal-law. The Report of that Commission might soon be expected; and he would ask, whether, under these circumstances, the house would proceed to legislate on a portion of the Criminal-law until they had the advantage of the inquiries now going on? He would admit, that the offences to which the hon. Gentleman's Motion related ought not to be punished with death; and, in fact, no such punishment was now inflicted for them. He believed the hon. Member could not name one instance, of late years, in which the punishment of death had been inflicted for any of those offences. On the ground of humanity, therefore, there was no urgency in the present case, for there was no fear that any life would be sacrificed under the present state of the law from any delay of the proposed Bill. There was another Motion for another change of the law, which stood for some day after the recess; so that it appeared they were not to wait for that report, which would assist their deliberations, but were to go on thus to amend the law in detached parts. He did hope, that the hon. Member would wait for the result of the inquiry now going on. He did not ask him to abandon his Bill, or to put it off indefinitely, but to wait for the Report of the Commissioners, which could not now be long delayed.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that having had the honour of representing, for a considerable period, the University of Cambridge, from which the petition now under the consideration of the House had emanated, he was anxious to take the present opportunity of expressing the great satisfaction with which he saw that petition now lying upon the table. Although his political connexion with that University had ceased; yet it was impossible that he should not take a deep interest in all that regarded its welfare. He thought the petition redounded greatly to the honour of the establishment, and was satisfied that a compliance with the prayer would contribute to its general interests. He had observed, amongst the signatures attached to the petition, the names of many distinguished individuals who had honoured him with their private friendship and political support. Attempts had been made to detract from the weight due to the petition by stating, that it had only been signed by a minority of resident members, and that it did not bear signatures of any non-resident members. With respect to the latter argument, if it had been signed by non-resident members, how vehemently would the objection have been made, that persons who were not conversant with the discipline or government of the University had petitioned for that which would be injurious to its interests! Undoubtedly the number who had signed that petition was small; but if the House took into account, not merely their numbers, but their attainments in science and their great natural talents—he would say, if those members were allowed to multiply their votes by the treasures of knowledge, which they had laid up in store (as the members of some assemblies were entitled to multiply their votes by their riches)—the petitioners would represent the great majority of the intellect and talent of he University. In
 699 700 701 702
 Mr. Ruthven  said, that it was very hard that men should be punished for a crime which they had ignorantly committed. He thought that conciliatory measures would he much more effectual in suppressing the Unions than such severe measures as had been adopted with respect to the Dorsetshire Unionists. He hoped his Majesty's Ministers would take the case
 734
 Mr. O'Connell  hoped the hon. Member who presented the petition from Cheltenham would not stop there, but would follow it up by moving an address to his Majesty. He said this, without having any doubt upon the law—without having any doubt of the case coming within the law, or of the Judge who decided the case being bound to decide it as he did. The recital of the statute related to one particular species of offence; yet the enacting
 736 737 pro re nata
 Mr. O'Connell  had alluded to the oaths taken by Orangemen previous to the period mentioned by the hon. Member; oaths which required three separate Acts of Parliament to suppress. Besides, an engagement tantamount to an oath brought individuals within the Act.
 Colonel Evans  thought, that the clear statement made by the hon. and learned member for Dublin was sufficient to convince any one that the extreme rigour of the law should not be carried into execution in the case in question. He must remind the House of a revolting case of a child having been lately killed by a severe beating from his master, and for that serious offence only two months' imprisonment was deemed sufficient punishment. He could but consider such discrepancies as greatly injurious to the morals of the people, for the sentence was too lenient in one case, and much too severe in the other.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that when in former years it was his duty to introduce the Miscellaneous Estimates to the notice of the House, he had invariably abstained from any preliminary remarks, because he thought that the effect of such discussions was generally to produce confusion, and that the best opportunity for affording whatever explanations might be required was to be found when each separate vote came before the Committee. He was not now going to depart materially from his former practice, but there were one or two facts connected with those Estimates which he thought would prove gratifying to the House, and, therefore, he should
 739 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that the next vote he should propose was for the cost of two pictures purchased for the use of the nation. The question of a National Gallery was one that had been suggested, and, indeed urged, by the House rather than by the Government. He never recollected a feeling so strongly expressed upon all sides as that which prevailed in favour of establishing a National Gallery. It was recommended by all parties, and received the support of Gentlemen most urgent for economy, and such being the case, Government had acted upon what he regarded as the unanimous wish of the House. During the present year two of the finest
 740 l.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that he had no intention to oppose this vote; on the contrary, he entirely agreed in the opinion expressed by his right hon. friend, that if any pictures should be purchased for the National Gallery they should be such as, like the two pictures in this instance, had obtained a high and well-known character throughout Europe. This vote, he must say, met with his cordial concurrence. He would take that opportunity, however, to express a wish that some information should be laid before the House with regard to the arrangements that were to be made with the members of the Royal Academy, as respected the terms on which a certain portion of the new building was
 741
 Mr. Spring Rice  was very glad that his hon. friend (Mr. Warburton) had put that question to him. He trusted that the observations of his hon. friend with respect to the donation of pictures to the gallery would be fulfilled, and that they would not have to look for pictures for their gallery, but a gallery for their pictures. If anything were necessary to justify what had been stated by the hon. member for Bridport, it was the fact that since the last grant for the purchase of pictures there had been given to the nation pictures to the value of upwards of 60,000 l. l. l. 742
 Sir Robert Peel  was anxious to say one word in support of the Royal Academy. He did not dispute the right of the public to take the apartments in question from the Royal Academy, should the number of pictures in the National Gallery be so increased as to render it desirable to do so; but if the Royal Academy were deprived of the apartments in question, the members of that body would have a strong claim for rooms elsewhere. It ought to be recollected that they were to be divested of very valuable rooms which they held at Somerset House, and which were hereafter to be devoted to the public service. So far, therefore, ought there to be a deduction from the estimated expense of the building now erecting; and if the whole of the building should be required for a National Gallery, the least that ought to be done would be, to provide apartments for the Royal Academy in some other public building. He believed that the number of pictures in the National Gallery would be greatly increased by presents, and he trusted that ere long the building would be filled with them. He gave his cordial support to the vote, and believed that nothing would be more hailed by the public than grants of money for such purposes as the present. The public had already gained much by the purchase of pictures for the National Gallery, and he had no doubt that many other valuable presents would be made to it. He happened to have some knowledge of the pictures in question, and he could state that a sum much larger than 11,500 l. 743
 Mr. Ewart  was anxious to know what was the title under which the Royal Academy held the rooms at Somerset House. He admitted that that body had done much for the fine arts in this country; but there was much that was objectionable in the constitution of that body. He was anxious to make some observations with reference to that body, but he thought it would be better to do so when they arrived at the vote for the building the National Gallery. He had, indeed, given notice of a Motion on the subject, and was anxious to bring the matter forward. He did not agree with the right hon. Baronet with respect to the tenure upon which the Royal Academy should hold their rooms; for that body should have them subject to such regulations as had been alluded to by his hon. friend the member for Bridport. If the Royal Academy claimed rooms from the Government for their exhibitions, he thought that it was only just and reasonable that some control should be exercised with reference to their exhibitions. As it was, almost all the pictures were portraits, and in consequence of this, it often happened that historical or poetical works of great merit were excluded from the exhibition. By the present system of exhibiting portraits, our exhibitions were disgraced in the eyes of all Europe. He concurred with the right hon. Baronet with respect to the present vote, but when they came to the vote for the National Gallery he should renew the subject of the Royal Academy.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  could not let the observations of the hon. member for Liverpool pass without reply. The hon. Member was completely mistaken with respect to the exhibitions of the Royal Academy. No historical or other pictures were excluded from the Royal Academy for the purpose of exhibiting portraits. The hon. Member seemed to think, that there was something unfair in the present mode of receiving the pictures; but such was not the case. The matter was left to a Committee of Royal Academicians, called the Hanging Committee. If they excluded pictures of merit for the purpose of exhibiting portraits, they might have some claim to the title. He believed, however, that nothing could be done with greater impartiality than receiving and placing the pictures in the Royal Academy. Of course it occasionally happened that an artist was dissatisfied with the place in which his picture might he hung; but where the space was confined, it was impossible that all could have equally eligible situations. The Royal Academicians were generally the first artists in the profession, and as vacancies occurred in the body they were filled up by the most eminent artists. With respect to the principle adopted as regarded the exhibition of pictures at the Royal Academy, he believed it was customary to select the best pictures, and to place each as near as possible just above the horizontal line of persons entering the room. Care was also taken to place the other pictures in situations according to their relative merits. The hon. Gentleman complained, that by far the greater portion of the pictures exhibited at the Royal Academy were portraits; but this circumstance did not arise from any fault in the Academy. The public had a greater inclination to portraits than to historical pictures, and the consequence was, that the talents of the artists were directed to the former description of pictures. He was satisfied that if inquiry were made, it would be found that there was no partiality exhibited by the Royal Academy, but that the best works were always placed in the best situations. Undoubtedly they might occasionally hear complaints by an individual artist, that his picture was not hung in a good situation; but it must be obvious to every one, that such complaints were unavoidable. He was happy that the Government had been induced to apply for the grant, and
 745 l.
 Mr. Ruthven  could not consent that the people of England should be called upon to give 11,500 l.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, with respect to the observations that the hon. Gentleman had made on the impropriety of having votes like the present, when there was so much distress amongst the labouring classes, he would only repeat the answers that had been made to similar objections when urged on former occasions, namely, that it could be unanswerably proved, that no persons could be more interested than the labouring classes in matters of this nature, by which an improved taste for the fine arts would be spread throughout the country. Similar objections had been made to the purchase of Sir William Hamilton's collection of Etruscan vases; but what was the consequence of purchasing them? Everybody knew, that at least one branch of the manufactures of the country received a great impulse from the purchase of those invaluable remains of antiquity. With respect to the Royal Academy, he wished to observe, that he never intended to say, that if they took the rooms in the National Gallery from the Royal Academy, they were to leave that body without apartments; on the
 746
 Mr. Roebuck  was satisfied that no portion of the community would be more willing that the public money should be voted for the purchase of pictures of great merit, than the labouring classes. He supported the vote, because the money was to be laid out for the public advantage. He was well acquainted with the character of the labouring classes, and he was sure that they would regard with pleasure the purchase of these valuable works of art.
 Mr. Ewart  differed from the hon. member for Dublin (Mr. Ruthven) with respect to this vote. It was one, he was sure, that would meet with the general approval of the people. There was nothing more wanting in this country than a National Gallery for the cultivation of design. He could not agree with the hon. Baronet opposite as to the impartiality of the "Hanging Committee" of the Royal Academy. He would again repeat, that they gave the best places to their own pictures. He thought that it would be desirable to have a copy of the bye-laws of the Royal Academy laid before the House, and it was his intention to move for such copy, if there should be no objection to such production.
 Mr. Roebuck  trusted, that when the National Gallery was opened, it and other similar public institutions would be put under such regulations as not to exclude persons from admission to them because they were in the dress of artisans. Such a regulation existed in several public institutions at present. He trusted that it would be done away with, and that the public would be admitted, as they had a right to be, indiscriminately, to institutions supported by the public money.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  said, he could bear testimony that such a regulation as that just alluded to, did not prevail in all public institutions. He happened last year to be looking at the pictures in Pall-mall, when two sailors, dressed as usual, came in to view them; on looking
 747
 Mr. O'Connell  suggested, that a couple of hours should be set apart in the afternoon of Sundays, for admitting the people to institutions of this description.
 Mr. Warburton  wished to call the attention of the hon. Gentleman to the fact, that the reading-room of the Museum was closed in the evening. Now, a great many individuals were employed the whole of the morning, and the only opportunity they had for reading was in the evening, when the reading-room of the Museum was closed against them. If the object was, as was stated, to prevent the chance of the books being burnt, why not erect a separate room, detached from the main budding, and rendered fire-proof, where those persons who were employed in business during the morning, might have an opportunity of reading in the evening? Why, he would ask, should the Museum be closed for a certain period in the long vacation? A worse period for closing it could not be selected, as it happened that it was just the time when foreigners and other persons, who wished to consult rare books, were in the habit of visiting this country. As the Treasury held the purse-strings, it had only to issue its directions to the managers of the Museum, and any alteration that it might suggest would be at once carried into effect.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that this question had been discussed before on former occasions, and the effect had been the securing to the public a greater facility of access to the Museum, of which the public had taken every advantage. It would be seen by any person who visited the Museum, that such was the case. Indeed, by inspecting the returns that had been laid before the House, it would be found that an extraordinary number of persons visited the Museum for their gratification and amusement in the course of the year. He would say, that even the number that visited it in a single day was extraordina-
 748
 Mr. Ewart  was anxious to make a few observations before the Vote was agreed to. A portion of the building proposed to be erected was to be devoted to a gallery of modern art. He agreed that every facility should he given for the exhibition of the pictures of our artists; but he thought, that it behoved the House, before it made a grant for such a purpose, to ascertain that the regulations for the exhibition framed by the Royal Academy were not objectionable. The exhibitions of that Academy had a bad character on the Continent, in consequence of the great number of portraits they always contained. He contended, that at present there was a species of monopoly with the Royal Academicians, as they were entitled to exhibit a certain number of pictures, and they selected the best places for their own works. Many of them exhibited large portraits, which led to the exclusion of works of greater merit. He thought, that it was of importance that greater facilities should be given to the exhibition of paintings of a higher character of art than portraits. He recollected seeing in a German literary paper, a statement of the number of portraits exhibited in England, as compared with the same number annually exhibited in the exhibitions in the various cities of Germany. The state-
 749 "Lord Mount-Coffee-House, the Irish Peer, Who killed himself for love—with wine—last year?"
 Mr. Sinclair  could not understand the grounds upon which the hon. member for Liverpool complained of the management of the Royal Academy. Indeed he could not help thinking, that the hon. Gentleman's complaint was groundless, for he never visited the exhibition at that establishment without being inconceivably
 750
 Sir Robert Inglis  observed, that the pictures exhibited at Somerset House belonged to private artists, and were not the property of the Royal Academy; and such being the case, the charge for admission was perfectly reasonable.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that British artists had attained a greater excellence in water-colour drawing, than the artists of any other country, and yet the Royal Academy excluded pictures in water colours from the exhibition at Somerset House. This was unjust. He knew of no advantage which the arts had gained from the Royal Academy, and he certainly could not understand why they should be permitted to make a charge for admission to an exhibition that ought to be open to the public.
 Mr. Spring Rice  admitted, that it was true, as the hon. member for Bath had stated, that water-colour drawings were not admissible into the exhibition at Somerset House. The water-colour artists had, however, an exhibition of their own; and as they took money for admission at their doors, he saw no reason why those of the public who visited the exhibition at the Royal Academy should not pay for the gratification afforded to them by the inspection of the works of another class of artists. If there was no such thing as a Royal Academy such exhibitions would, he was satisfied, be supported by voluntary contributions; but when the hon. Member declared the institution to be useless, he surely could not have recollected the lectures of Sir Joshua Reynolds, Mr. Opie, and other eminent individuals connected with it, by whom the arts of painting and sculpture had been promoted, and by whose examples they were now encouraged. He (Mr. Spring Rice) could speak personally to the usefulness of the establishment, having had repeated opportunities of witnessing the kind and fostering care by which the so-
 751
 Mr. Wynn  was surprised to hear the hon. member for Bath make such an assertion as, that the Royal Academy had done nothing to promote the success of the arts. He could know little of the history of that institution, or he never would have hazarded such a declaration. Somerset House was a Royal residence, and the exhibition-rooms, and other apartments occupied by the Society, were granted by the King for the encouragement of the arts, and the success which attended their exertions was beyond all expectation. They had established schools, which could not be looked at without inspiring pride and satisfaction; and he, therefore, felt that it was due to the character of the Royal Academy to say, that under the auspices of that great national institution—for so it was to be regarded—the arts had attained very considerable perfection.
 Mr. Roebuck  opposed the vote on the ground that Dissenters were excluded from participating in the advantages of those national establishments.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that no individual either in that House or in the country concurred more heartily than he did in the justice of allowing the Dissenters a full participation in the advantages to be derived from a University education; nor was there any one who would co-operate more cordially to procure for them a free admission into the two great national establishments. It was on this very account that he should be unwilling to see the present vote rejected, considering, as he did, that one of the strongest arguments in favour of the concession was, that the State did actually contribute to the support of the Universities.
 Mr. Roebuck  wished to see the Universities thrown open to all classes first, and the grant for the support of the lectures voted after. It might be true, that the payment of the grant by Dissenters was an argument for admitting them to the Universities; but he did not like paying 2,600 l.
 Mr. George Frederick Young  agreed in the view taken by the right hon. Gentleman, and had no doubt that a short time would see the same privileges of admission to the lectures which prevailed at Cambridge extended to Oxford.
 Mr. Ewart  said, that he wished to see a certain time given, as a sort of  locus penitentiœ
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that the Penitentiary was a complete failure, that in fact it was nothing more than a prison, and that the system of discipline which was there pursued did not produce any good effects.
 Sir Thomas Fremantle , as one of those Commissioners who served gratuitously at the Board of this establishment, was bound to state, that there was every wish on the part of the Board to reduce the expenses necessarily incurred by the Penitentiary. The hon. member for Bath had asserted, that the system of discipline observed at the Penitentiary was a complete failure, and that no good effects from it were discernible. Now, on this point he must differ with him, for he had known many convicted felons, who had been sentenced to transportation, restored to their friends as useful members of society. It was the custom of the Board to give a small gratuity to such felons as could produce testimonials of good behaviour after an imprisonment for twelve months; and he was glad to state, that one-third, if not one-half of the prisoners confined there
 753
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that the Penitentiaries of England were badly conducted, particularly when contrasted with those in America. He did not see why the prisoners should not be compelled to make stores for the Government, or perform some other useful work.
 Viscount Howick  confessed his surprise, that so distinguished a political economist as the hon. Member who had last spoken should not perceive the difference in the relative situation of the two countries, which would more than account for any difference between the relative expenses incurred by both respectively in maintaining the convicted felons. The hon. Member might have remembered, that the price of free labour of every kind was far higher in America than in this country. It was therefore impossible that convict labour could be employed to so much advantage in the old as in the new country. While he was on this head, however, he was bound to observe, that even in America, in many instances, a great mistake had been committed in the management of their boasted Penitentiaries. The end of imprisonment had been altogether neglected and lost sight of, and the Penitentiaries had, in many instances, degenerated into mere manufactories. With respect to the employment of the convicts in the manufacture of stores, by which he presumed the hon. Member meant clothing, he would observe, that the great contractors of this country were enabled to furnish the supplies required at so cheap a rate by the employment of free labour out of doors, over which their interest induced them to exercise an unwearied vigilance, that the produce of convict labour could not be put into the scale of competition.
 Mr. Hutt  said, that he considered this vote monstrously extravagant, and that many of the items were wholly superfluous. He therefore moved as an Amendment, "That the Vote should be reduced by
 754 l.
 Mr. Grote  supported the Amendment. He looked upon the amount asked for as most exorbitant. The hon. Member also strongly commented upon the monstrous discrepancy in the amounts of salaries, for it appeared that those Consuls who did least were paid most. Our Consuls in America, who probably had twice as much to do as other Consuls, were not paid half the amount, received by Consuls in other places, who did little or nothing. For instance, the Consuls at New York, Baltimore, Philadelphia, and several other places, where the amount of business was very arduous, were only paid 500 l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Roebuck  thought, there was a total absence of any principle by which the salaries given to Consuls were regulated. For example, the expenses of our Consulate Department at Egypt compared to that of the United States, were out of all proportion to the commerce of Egypt and the United States. The hon. Member referred also to Hamburgh and Amsterdam, and asked why the expenses should be so much greater at the former than at the latter place, the difference not being capable of justification by a reference to our commercial relations. The existing arrangements were full of such inconsistencies, and appeared to him to be quite ridiculous.
 Colonel Evans  was of opinion, that the salaries to Consuls ought to be regulated to a certain extent by the amount of the commerce. Our commerce with Spain was not in a very flourishing state, and yet there was a long list of appointments for that country. The expenses for the Levant amounted to not less than 10,000 l. l. l. 755 l.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that the hon. Member who had just spoken had referred to the difference that was to be found in the amounts paid to our Consuls, and had particularly referred to those in the Ottoman Empire and in Egypt; but he thought, that any attempt to reduce these allowances to a fixed scale would fail. There were some special circumstances connected with Egypt, to which he begged to call the attention of the House. As regarded Alexandria, we had no Minister, no diplomatic agent there of any kind, and it consequently devolved on the Consul to act in the capacity of diplomatic agent, in addition to the discharge of his ordinary duties, To estimate the labour of the Consul, then, by comparing the trade of Alexandria and this country with our trade with any other port, was to take a very erroneous view of the matter. We must adapt our establishments in other countries to the nature of our connexion with those countries. In investigating the anomalies of salaries, it would be found that there were other anomalies of situation and circumstances which justified the former. If we sent persons to distant countries, must we not pay them according to the peculiarities in the society, according to the badness of the climate, or according to the rate of living? At Hamburgh we had no diplomatic representative, which would account for the difference observed in the amount of pay to our Consul there, as compared with the amount paid to our Consul at Amsterdam.
 Mr. George Frederick Young  was glad to see the right hon. the First Lord of the Admiralty (Sir James Graham) taking his seat, because he (Mr. Young) wished to call the attention of the Government, of which the right hon. Gentleman was a Member, to the fact, that in 1830, the right hon. Gentleman, in a Motion which he then made, did attempt to lay down some general principle, to the effect that the salaries of British Consuls should not exceed the sum of 1,000 l. 756 l. l.
 Mr. Ewart  said, that the salaries to the Consuls ought to have proportion to the amount of British shipping frequenting the port. He approved of the suggestion of the hon. member for Tynemouth to appoint a Committee, and would support a Motion to that effect if one were made.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that since he came into office, it had been in his power to effect reductions in the Consular Department to the extent of 29,000 l. 757 l. l. l. 758
 Mr. Pease  said, he had no doubt whatever, that the greatest reduction of the salaries of Consuls might be made where there existed the greatest amount of trade. Looking to the advantages which accrued to commercial men (which could not arise to others) from these appointments, he thought great changes might be made. He must, indeed, add, that these appointments were of considerable importance to the shipping interest, and only those who understood that subject should be appointed to fill the office.
 Mr. Clay  thought, that the speech of the noble Lord (Palmerston) was the best ground for referring this matter to a Select Committee, for though the noble Lord had shown that no general rule could be applied to all classes, he had failed to answer or explain some of the anomalies which had been pointed out. He had not explained why, in some places, there was a Consul-General, but no Vice-Consul, or why both Consul General and Vice Consul were kept up in other places where we had a resident diplomatic agent. Thus, in Lisbon, he found we had a Consul at 600 l. l. l. l. 759
 Mr. Hutt  thought, that after the turn the Debate had taken, he should best consult the object he had in view, if he withdrew the suggestion he had made, with the view of making a Motion for referring the whole subject of our Consular Establishment to a Select Committee, which he would do on the bringing up of the Report; for, it was perfectly clear, that cases of great anomaly and gross extravagance in the expenditure of the public money existed in many of those appointments, and, on this ground, he did look for the support of the House and of the Government in the Motion which he intended to make. He would not then follow the noble Lord into the details to which he had gone; but he feared that neither in that House nor in a Select Committee would the noble Lord be able to convince him of the propriety of giving 2,000 l. l. l. l. l.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that what the hon. Gentleman meant by the system of "Toryism" he could not comprehend; but with regard to the term of "sinecurism" he certainly understood that; and he begged to assure the House that if there was any set of men to whom this term did not apply,
 760
 Colonel Evans  begged to ask where the Consul-General for Austria resided, to whom a salary of 1,000 l.
 Viscount Palmerston , in reply, stated that he generally resided at Milan.
 Major Beauclerk  said, that he entirely agreed in the principle of the vote, and he heartily gave it his support.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that the House and the country ought to be grateful to the Government for the manner in which the money had been distributed. The grant of this sum of 20,000 l. l.
 Lord Morpeth  believed, that no public grant of so limited an amount had ever been productive of so much good.
 Mr. Ewart  suggested the propriety of instituting normal schools, after the plan adopted by the Prussian Government.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that it was gratifying to him to learn, not only that the vote itself was approved, but also the principles upon which the money had been administered. The Government had been told, when this vote was first proposed, that if they did not give away the money unconditionally, the object they had in view would fail. They had not, however, so acted, for they required all parties applying to Government for the establishment of schools first to put down some of their own money for that purpose.
 761 l. l.
 Mr. Murray  complained of the exclusion of Scotland from the benefit of the proposed grant.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that the reason why Scotland was not included in the grant was, because the vote was in the first instance neither more nor less than an experimental vote, though he was free to confess, that it now assumed somewhat of a different character.
 Mr. George F. Young  hoped, that Government, in consequence of the favourable disposition evinced by the House with regard to this vote, would be induced to bring forward a proposition for a moderate extension of the grant, in order to its application to Great Britain generally.
 Mr. Grote  was of opinion that Government ought to extend the vote, but, with the limited means in their hands, they had certainly done as much as could well be expected of them during the last year. He hoped they would be animated to still greater exertions in future.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, as there were several notices on the books with respect to the general question of education, there would be other and more fitting opportunities for discussing the subject; but there was one proposition which had been thrown out, and which deserved the greatest possible attention—he alluded to the establishment of normal schools, which he had no doubt would be of the greatest possible advantage, inasmuch as they would tend materially to improve, not only the schools to be built, but also those which were at present in existence; and he hoped his noble friend would authorize him, before the close of the present Session, to make some proposition to the House upon the subject.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the reason why it had not been originally extended to Scotland was, its being understood that some provision already existed in that country to a considerable extent, while at the same time it was thought advisable that the experiment, to have full justice,
 762
 Mr. Craven Berkeley  wished to say,
 738
 Mr. Craven Berkeley  presented a Petition from the inhabitants of Cheltenham, numerously signed, praying that the House would present an Address to his Majesty, to mitigate the punishment of the Dorchester agriculturists for administering unlawful oaths. He did not feel it necessary to enter into the subject, as the men to whom it related had already left the country.
 Major Beauclerk  thought Trades' and other Unions were founded in justice, and, it was because he felt so, that he gave them his support. At the same time, he admitted, that nothing could be more unwise, or, indeed, more unjust, than that any Union should act in the way stated by the hon. Baronet. He regretted to find that there were some misguided men belonging to the Trades' Unions; but was that a reason why they should be suppressed altogether? Were there no such things as unions of gentlemen to put down paupers and poachers? He had seen many a poor wretch banished from his
 735
 Colonel Perceval  begged leave to say, that no oaths were now taken by Orangemen. As an Orangeman himself, he could state the fact, that no oaths had been taken by him or others since the passing of the Act of Parliament, making it penal.
 Mr. Rotch  quoted, from "The Trades' Union Magazine," a paragraph respecting the use of oaths in that body, because it was useless to bind by an oath which would not be kept; therefore oaths were discarded, not because the law prohibited them, but of their uselessness. He thought it right that the labouring classes should be independent of their employers, and free from any tyrannous power, but meetings and bodies of men assembling should he prevented. He differed from the hon. Gentleman (for Dublin) who said, that the Statute was a slumbering one. It was not—it was acted upon in another case, as could be ascertained by consulting the Reports.
 Mr. Baines  had the pleasure to state, that since the conviction at Dorchester, the members of the Trades' Unions had desisted from taking oaths of any kind. While referring to this subject, he could not but observe, that he thought the present Administration would have acted wisely and well, if they had extended mercy towards the Dorchester prisoners. He admitted, that it was criminal, in any man, to force another to take an oath by which he would oblige that other to leave his employer; but still, he thought, there were such features in the Dorchester case as might have induced the Government to visit the prisoners with a milder punishment than had been pronounced upon them; care being taken, at the same time, to intimate that, should there be a recurrence of the offence, the severer punishment would be applied to those who should be guilty of it. The persons who had committed the crime having been, in a certain degree, unacquainted with its extent, and certainly ignorant of the punishment to which it led, it would have been received as an act of favour by the labourers of England, if they had not been punished so severely. He hoped, even yet, it was not too late to recall them; not that he meant to say, that their punishment should be altogether remitted. He believed the Trades' Unions were beginning to be conscious of the risk they were running by interfering with the free exercise of the labour of their fellow-workmen, and in administering illegal oaths to anybody connected with their associations.
 Mr. Hardy  had been represented as entertaining an opinion unfavourable to Trades' Unions; but he had stated, as strongly as he could, that he saw no objection to workmen entering into a combination to better their condition by refusing to work under certain wages. He added, that it could not be endured in any country governed by law, that they should compel others, by intimidation and force of arms, as it were, to join them. In 1832, a murder was committed near the town he represented, because a person did not obey the orders of the Union; and although fourteen or fifteen persons were concerned, no discovery of the perpetrators had yet been made, those who it was thought could give information, being afraid to do so. This was the kind of conduct that could not be suffered. At the same time, that he maintained the right of the workmen to associate to benefit their condition, he must say, that he did not think the Unions had done them much good; and those which had been conducted upon the same principle as that at Exeter and some others, had been the ruin of the workmen, who were deluded by the Committee-men and Treasurer into keeping up an agitation by which they profited.
 Sir Charles Burrell  contended, that the friends of liberty who upheld the Trades' Unions, who obliged men to leave their employers when they pleased, were acting most unwisely; could there be a greater tyranny than to force men to leave their masters and join bodies that were collecting funds for illegal purposes? It was monstrous that such bodies should be allowed to continue to have such a power as that to which he had adverted.
 Mr. Baring  inquired if the income of the Clergy was to be subject to Poor-rates?
 Mr. Baring  was not surprised that the noble Lord found great difficulties in the way of settling so complicated a question—a question, which either directly or indirectly, involved the interests of all classes in the State—nor could he wonder that, under such circumstances, the noble Lord was not enabled to bring forward a measure, in the first instance, clear and satisfactory. As far as he was concerned, he wished to postpone forming any opinion on the noble Lord's Bill until he had seen what it really was. It might not be difficult to point out objections to any plan that might be submitted; but feeling as every body must feel, the extreme importance of settling this question, he hoped that hon. Gentlemen would not be very nice in looking at a measure, which whether they regarded it in a moral point of view, or in reference to its religious operation, or to its probable results on the agricultural interests of the country, was of the utmost importance. The noble Lord had stated, and he perfectly agreed with him, that the property of the Church, notwithstanding the prejudice that had gone abroad on that subject, was not more than enough for her decent and proper maintenance. Whatever opinions existed as to the propriety of its division, or of the amount of what were called the sinecures of the Church, it was fully agreed that the total amount was not more than was sufficient for the purpose. He was not aware whether there were any returns before Parliament which set forth the Revenues. It would, however, be highly desirable that such a Return should be made, not that it would at all affect the decision of the question, for even if it
 829 pro formâ
 Colonel Wood  was decidedly of opinion, that the question could not be satisfactorily settled, without having recourse to parochial valuations. Some parishes had been lately valued in consequence of inclosures. The tithes in upwards of 2,300 parishes had been valued under Inclosure Acts, and in consequence, about one-sixth of the whole parishes of the country had commuted their tithes. Small tithes chiefly existed in parishes; and it was these tithes that were a perpetual source of angry feeling between the clergy and their flocks. He therefore considered that a county valuation was not sufficient to arrange the question. He would not at present enter into the details of the measure. The landlords of England were deeply interested in it, and he was glad that his Majesty's Government had taken up the important subject. The suggestion of the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) was valuable, since a great deal of good might be done by a voluntary composition of tithes.
 Mr. Roebuck  spoke to the following effect:—I rise, Sir, to move that a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the political condition of the Canadas, and my excuse (if excuse be needed) for pressing forward the Motion at the present time, is the extreme emergency of the matter; the critical and extraordinary position of the colonies to which the Motion relates. And in order to induce the House to accede to my request for this Committee of Inquiry, it will be my business, in the observations with which I shall accompany it, to prove the following, among other things:—first, That the provinces are at this moment in a state nearly approaching to open revolt; that Lower Canada particularly' as far as words can go, is actually in a state of revolution; the House of Assembly (their House of Commons) having formally seceded from all communication with the Executive, and also having expressly declared their intention to impeach the present governor, Lord Aylmer.—Secondly, I shall endeavour, also, to show, that this present disturbed state of these countries is the result of a long series of continuous bad government, and that the actual outbreaking of the people at the present moment springs immediately from the extremely rash and petulant behaviour of the present Secretary of the Colonies—who, unfortunately for this country, after having successfully fanned Ireland into a flame, has employed the same qualities to the same end in our Transatlantic possessions.—Thirdly, My last object, after having pointed out the evil, will be to suggest the remedy, and to this end I shall endeavour to explain why I desire a Committee of Inquiry. Before I enter upon this arduous undertaking, the House will, perhaps, permit me to allude very briefly (and I assure them that I do so with great reluctance) to the position in which I personally stand as regarding the present question. It may naturally be asked, why I should particularly interest myself in this matter, and whether I can bring to the discussion any peculiar information. I will answer both questions at once. The knowledge that I have upon this matter is greatly the result of personal experience. Many years spent in habits of great intimacy with the
 768 769 770 771 772 employés acée 773 l 774 775 776 777 778 779 * * 780 781 782 I have also laid before the King the addresses of the House of Assembly. I cannot pass over this document without observation. The object of this address is to pray his Majesty to sanction a national convention of the people of Canada, for the purpose of superseding the legislative authorities, and taking into their consideration in which of two modes the constitution of Lower Canada shall be altogether destroyed; whether by the introduction of the elective principle, or by the entire abolition of the Legislative Council. On the mode proposed, his Majesty is willing to put no harsher construction than that of extreme inconsiderateness; to the object sought to be obtained his Majesty can never be advised to assent, as deeming it inconsistent with the very existence of monarchical institutions. To every measure which may secure the independence, and raise the character of the Legislative. Council, his Majesty will be most ready to assent. In 1828, a Committee of the House of Commons carefully investigated the grievances alleged by the inhabitants of the Canadas, and amongst them the constitution of the Legislative Council was a matter of serious deliberation. The Committee reported that one of the most important subjects to which their inquiries had been directed, was the state of the Legislative Council in both the Canadas, and the manner in which those Assemblies had answered the purposes for which they were instituted The Committee strongly recommended that a more independent character should be given to those bodies; that the majority of their members should not consist of persons holding offices at the pleasure of the Crown; and that any other measures that might tend to connect more intimately that branch of the Constitution with the interests of the colonies, would be attended with the greatest advantage. With respect to the Judges, with the exception only of the Chief Justice, whose presence on particular occasions might be necessary, the Committee entertained no doubt, that they had better not be involved in the political business of the House. An examination of the constitution of the body at that period and the present, will sufficiently shew in what spirit his Majesty's Government have laboured to accomplish the wishes of Parliament. The House of Assembly state correctly, that it has often been avowed, that the people of Canada could see nothing in the institutions of neighbouring countries to which they should look with envy. I have yet to learn that his Majesty's subjects in Canada entertain such sentiments at present, or that they desire to copy in a monarchical government all the institutions of a republic, or to have the mockery of an executive, absolutely dependent for its existence upon a popular body usurping the whole authority
 783 784 That this House, and the people whom it represents, do not wish or intend to convey any threat; but that, relying as they do on the principles of law and justice, they are and ought to be politically strong enough not to be exposed to receive insult from any man whomsoever, or bound to suffer it in silence; that the style of the said extracts from the despatches of the Colonial Secretary, as communicated to this House, is insulting and
 785 That with regard to the following expressions in one of the said despatches, "should events unhappily force upon Parliament the exercise or his supreme authority to compose the internal dissension of the Colonies, it would be my object and my duty, as a servant of the Crown, to submit to Parliament, such modifications of the charter of the Canadas as should, tend, not to the introduction of institutions inconsistent with Monarchical Government, but to maintaining and strengthening the connexion with the mother-country by a close adherence to the spirit of the British Constitution, and by preserving in their proper place, and within their due limits, the mutual rights and privileges of all classes of his Majesty's subjects;" if they are to be understood as containing a threat to introduce into the constitution and other modifications than such as are asked for by the majority of the people of this province, whose sentiments cannot be legitimately expressed by any other authority than its representatives, this House would esteem itself wanting in candour to the people of England, if it hesitated to call their attention to the fact, that in less than twenty years the population of the United States of America will be as much greater than that of Great Britain, as that of British America will be greater than that of the former English colonies, when the latter deemed that the time was come to decide that the inappreciable advantage of governing themselves, instead of being governed, ought to engage them to repudiate a system of colonial government, which was, generally speaking, much better than that of British America now is. 786 787 788 nemine contradicente 789 790
 Mr. Stanley  said, he must offer his thanks to the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, first for the advice which the hon. and learned Gentleman had tendered to him—advice which be received in the spirit of kindness—and in the next place for having, by the present motion, afforded him an opportunity to explain and bring under the consideration of the House not only the constitution, but also the present state of the province of Lower Canada. He knew not what was the object of the alteration which the hon. and learned Gentleman had made from the terms in which his Motion had originally been announced to those with which the hon. and learned Gentleman had just concluded his speech; but the House would not fail to observe, that the distinction was by no means immaterial: it was one question to discuss and consider the constitution of a Colony, and another to inquire into its present state and condition. He confessed, though he had listened with great attention to the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman, it was with no small difficulty that he had followed the hon. and learned gentleman through the complicated dates, terms, facts, and circumstances, which almost rendered the hon. and learned Gentleman's statement unintelligible to persons unacquainted with the
 791 792 We, his Majesty's dutiful and loyal subjects, the Commons of Upper Canada, in Provincial Parliament assembled, return our thanks, for your Excellency's Message of the 12th day of January last, transmitting a despatch of the right hon. the Secretary of State for the Colonies, in answer to certain letters and documents addressed to his Lordship, for the purpose of proving that the people of this happy and prosperous colony are oppressed and burdened with grievances, and have become so discontented, that there is danger of revolt and bloodshed, unless those alleged burdens and grievances are removed and redressed. We most readily concede that the noble Secretary of State was actuated by the best motives in framing the despatch in question; but we cannot refrain from expressing our great regret that it did not occur to his Lordship, that allegations thus deeply affecting the character of his Majesty's subjects of Upper Canada rested on no better testimony than that of an individual who had been twice expelled this House, and who, in consequence of his having fabricated and reiterated libels of the grossest description, had been declared unfit and unworthy a seat in the Assembly during the present Parliament. If this fact had occurred to his Lordship, it is reasonable to suppose, that he would not have felt himself at liberty to recognize the author of this additional calumny on the people of this province, as the agent, or as speaking the sentiments of any portion of the loyal inhabitants of the province of Upper Canada, and would therefore have considered it utterly unnecessary to enter into so elaborate an examination or refutation of anything advanced by him. The House of Assembly are unwilling to occupy your Excellency's time or attention by commenting on the details of the dispatch, or on the different matters referred to in it, as constituting grounds of complaint on the part of a few of the people of this province; they will merely remark, that the remedy for any ills alleged to exist is placed in the hands and is within the constitutional power, of the Legislature of the colony; and the noble Secretary of State does the people of this province but justice in believing, that there are no people on earth who are less likely to yield to the unmanly weakness of despairing of the public good, and of betraying their most sacred duties in a pusillanimous spirit. Acting upon principles and feelings diametrically opposite to those imputed to them, we are confident, that they will take care to exercise their rights as freemen and British sub-
 793 s l l Roebuck: 794 795 796 There are two modes in winch the Composition of the Legislative Council might be bettered: the one which, I believe, the majority of the people in Lower Canada have in view,
 797 You conceive, then, that the fault of the Legislative Council is not in the original constitution of the body, but in the manner in which the choice of councillors has been exercised?—Certainly; that may, perhaps, be unavoidable; because it is impossible that the Government here should see in the colony, excepting by the means of the people that are in the colony; they must take the recommendations that are sent from the colony; and if they are men that are not independent, and not suited altogether to act an independent part in the Council, of course they must appoint them notwithstanding, for they do not know that it is otherwise. When you say that those alterations would improve the Constitution of the Legislative Council, do you use the word 'improve,' in this sense, that they would constitute a body which would agree with the lower House in their views, instead of agreeing with the Governor, as it now does, in his views?—I should suppose that it would be compelled to agree with neither one nor the other. At present, we suppose that it is absolutely compelled to agree with the Governor. Then it would be an independent body, that would keep the balance between the two, and give a certain stability to the existing laws and institutions. It never was imagined (the witness continued), by us, at least, that the Legislative Council was to be otherwise than a body originating, in some measure, from the Crown. The Judges ought to be excluded from the Legislative Council; for it unavoidably mixes them up with politics, and they become, instead of Judges, in some measure political partizans. If the Chief Justice is to be everything as he is at present, a Member of the Legislative Council, Chairman of the Executive Council, presiding in the Court of Appeals, and taking an active part in all the public business of the province, he must be almost incapable of avoiding, when he is upon the Bench, feeling a certain bias: it is believed, too, that such a bias exists; for instance, when a prosecution is advised, it must be sanctioned in the Council in order to allow the expenses; the Executive
 798 If the Chief Justice, or any Judge, were not to be active politicians, there would be no harm in their being anywhere; but the society being small, they become active politicians. Is it not by being Executive Councillors that they get mixed up with politics?—Yes, that is the great evil of their being Legislative Councillors, but in the Legislative Council, in the passing of Bills, they take an active part; they are for or opposed to the Bill; and it has been frequently found, that they interpret in their Courts, according to the interpretation in the Council. Would you think it desirable that a provision of this sort should be made, that not above a certain proportion of the Legislative Council should consist of persons in the pay and employment of Government?—Certainly, I should say so, that would be a proper rule for the Government to act upon. "Do the petitioners whom you represent complain of the composition of the Legislative Council?—They do. "Of what do they complain?—They complain that the majority of the Members of the Legislative Council are persons holding places of profit during pleasure, and, in consequence of that, they are not considered independent of the Crown. How do they propose to remedy it?—I do not know that their opinion has been taken upon that particular point. I can only give it as my opinion to the Committee, that if it were not expedient to make the Legislative Council elective, certainly the Judges ought to be excluded from that body, and also the Collectors and Receivers of Revenue, and the Auditors of Accounts. If, on the other hand, the Legislative Council were to be elective, a certain qualification, of course, would be requisite in the Electors, and a certain qualification for the Members; but, decidedly, certain descriptions of persons ought not to be elected in the Council, for instance, Collectors and Receivers of the Revenue." 799 800 
 
 1828. 1833. 
 Anglo-Americans 3 5 
 English 6 7 
 Irish 2 1 
 Scotch 9 8 
 French Canadians 6 11 801 802 Hear, Hear, from Mr. Roebuck 803 l l 804 l 805 806 807 808 809 810 811
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that, from the aspect things had assumed, he would advise his friend to withdraw his Motion and allow the amendment to succeed, placing the inquiry upon the responsibility of the Government, as he was sure it would be of great use to those colonies. He would not enter into details, but merely express his opinion that to take into consideration the vital interests of our colonies would, even as a precedent (putting out of the question the positive and practical good effected), tend to strengthen the social link between the mother country and her dependencies. A reciprocity of confidence, of justice and support—and these were great things—would be promoted. With respect to the legislation, he (Mr. O'Connell) thought the decision of the Upper House in the colonies worth nothing. The Resolution alluded to was carried by a simple majority of three. Surely a decision of such an assembly, adopted by so small a majority could not, in common fairness, be considered as representing the opinion of the whole colony. It was one thing to say, that there was a majority of the Assembly, and another thing to presume, that those persons would be again elected by their constituents.
 812 813
 Mr. Hume  said, the triumph for Lower Canada, which had been achieved through the Motion of his hon. friend the member for Bath, in the concession of the appointment of a Committee of Inquiry, would have induced him to refrain from addressing the House upon the question, had not the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies particularly alluded to him in the course of his speech. He would tell the right hon. Gentleman that he would much rather be considered as the protector of a distant people than the oppressor of our own subjects. He would tell the right hon. Gentleman that since he had presided in the Colonial Office, discontent had prevailed in the colonies at the insults and injuries they had received, and they had been induced to study seriously how they could best protect themselves. Much had been said of the spirit which prevailed in Lower Canada; it was said that it was averse to the British connection; and in support of that assertion reference was made to the majorities in favour of the similar measures adopted by Government in Upper Canada. He would tell the right hon. Gentleman, and those who credited such representations that the majorities favourable to the recent measures of Government in Upper Canada were obtained by corruption and bribery. But, notwithstanding the most gross and exten-
 814 815
 Viscount Howick  rose rather to correct some errors into which hon. Members had fallen than to discuss the question at large. Indeed, as a Committee of Inquiry was to be appointed, such a discussion at that moment would be ill-timed. The two hon. Members who had spoken last had stated the great point in dispute to be whether or not the colony should be permitted to exercise a full and efficient control over the public purse. He was most decidedly of opinion that it should; but that, in fact, was not the question; and he must do the Government of the Duke of Wellington the justice to state, that it was not the question even while that Government was in existence. That Government and the present had fully admitted that right, and had acted up to that admission. The chief point now in dispute was whether or not the salaries of the Judges should be permanently fixed; in fact, whether or not the Judges should be independent of the Assembly, in as far as remuneration was concerned. The hon. and learned member for Dublin had complained that the Roman Catholic clergy in Lower Canada were hardly dealt by. The hon. and learned Member must have been entirely misinformed. Ever since the conquest the utmost care had been taken to prevent the possibility of any such complaint being made with justice; and he was quite sure that if the hon. and learned Gentleman would inquire fully into the matter he would find the real state of the case to be that the Roman Catholic clergy regarded the party of Mr. Papineau as far less favourable to them than the other. The hon. and learned Member again had completely misconceived the case when he stated that the Government had denied the right of the Legislative Assembly to expel its Members. The fact was the reverse. In the one province, Mr. M'Kenzie, and in the other Mr. Christie, had been expelled, and the Government, however wrong it might have thought the expulsion in each case, did not at all question the right, although it questioned the manner in which
 816
 Mr. Patrick Stewart  rejoiced that the subject had been brought forward, for he was convinced that if peace were to be restored in Canada it must be by instituting an inquiry into the complaints. After the great colonial measure of last Session he thought the House might well be bold in colonial improvement. He was also glad of the distinction which had been kept in
 817
 Mr. Roebuck  contended, that if there had been any breach of good faith it rested with the Government, and not with the House of Assembly. As a proof of the violence that had been offered to the popular feeling, he would only direct the attention of the House to the attempts which had been made by the Legislative Council to nurse an English party into existence in opposition to the French inhabitants, and to the attempts which had been made by the Judges to suppress the use of the French language in the Courts of Law. They did not succeed, indeed, because the people resisted those attempts. Could it be said that nothing had been done to excite the people's jealousy, while unjust distinctions were kept up; and attempts were made to establish a Protestant Church—the greater part of the population being Catholic? How could it be expected that people would contentedly see efforts made to set up a Church for which they were to pay, in which they felt no interest, if they did not entertain towards it a decided hostility? There ought to be no distinction of a religious description—no distinction of classes of the people; and till this was obtained, he hoped that the exertions which had been made to get such distinctions abolished would be continued. Again, he contended that the colony had a complete right to control the expenditure of every farthing of money, for all the revenue of the colony came from their labour and from
 818
 Mr. Harvey  feared, that the noble Lord had contrived to complicate the excellent principle of his Bill with provisions of a very doubtful nature. The noble Lord had, he thought, involved himself in difficulties in consequence of his having had recourse to voluntary communications, whereas, if he had trusted to his own business-like mind, the measure which he had produced would have been much clearer and more satisfactory. What a complicated and expensive machinery was proposed by the Bill! They were to have valuers of counties, and valuers of parishes, and Barristers as arbitrators, and what not! If the noble Lord wished to arrive at the value of the tithes, whether of a given property, or of a whole county, or of a parish, let him apply to any auctioneer whose name figured in the columns of a newspaper, and he would put him in a mode of ascertaining the value of the tithes, great or small, arable or pasture, and the required number of years' purchase, in a very satisfactory manner, without any such complicated system of valuation. He apprehended that this Bill would be shipwrecked by its honesty. It did not recommend itself to any one branch of the community. The landlord would gain little by it. Few Gentlemen would be disposed to buy the right to tithes fixed at their full value, and estimated at twenty-five years' purchase. The community would gain no benefit, for it was not even intimated that they would get any surplus. The noble Lord took frequent occasion to repeat what had been so often said, that the tithes of the country were not more than sufficient for the maintenance of the National Church. Now, this was matter of opinion only. But why should it remain matter of opinion? Why should it not be matter of fact? A Commission had for some time been sitting, which Commission had acted in a spirit of great intelligence. They had framed a series of questions; and he never read any questions more searching than those which they had propounded. They were under four heads, directed to Bishops, Rectors, Corporations sole, and Deans and Chapters. There were from sixteen to twenty-five questions; and if honest returns had been made to them, the noble Lord must have in his posses-
 831
 Mr. Finch  did not think, that there existed a general desire for the commutation of tithes, and, therefore, the plan of a voluntary composition could not succeed in large portions of the country where commutation was not desired, and where tithe was levied on an equitable system. With respect to that part of the measure which mentioned a twenty-five years' purchase, he thought it highly objectionable; and there were other details which would fall heavily on several counties.
 Mr. Parrott  thought, that the tithe owner ought not to be exempted from the payment of rates and taxes, and that a reduction ought to be made on the collection of small tithes as well as on great. With respect to a fixed commutation, he considered the suggestions of the noble Lord better than those of the hon. member for Middlesex. A fixed commutation could only be carried into effect in a country where the state of the cultivation of land was pretty nearly equal.
 Mr. Hume  felt confident, that the proposition of the noble Lord would not give satisfaction, either in or out of the House. The principle acted upon in Scotland was far preferable to the one now proposed, for there the tithe was an invariable rent. By the measure now proposed, if a man laid out 5 l l
 Mr. Hume  would put the case of the market gardeners residing in the neighbourhood of London, from whom he had a Petition to present, in favour of Tithe commutation, and praying that, in future, the charge for Tithes should be an invariable one. Suppose the landlord of such tenants as these refused to agree to a commutation, how were they to be compensated for the money they might expend in improvement?
 Mr. Fryer  said, that it was impossible that any one could disagree with the present Resolution. He begged leave to read the Resolution, and would ask, what possible objection there could be made to it. He really could not see any occasion for all the debate which had taken place,
 840
 Dr. Lushington  said, the member for Colchester, and also the hon. member for Middlesex, expressed regret that this discussion was entered upon before ample information had been before the House. He also regretted it as much as those hon. Members did, so as far as regarded the Diocesans, the Prebends, and Canons. Whatever information could be expected by them had been already sent in. They had also obtained from the rest of the clergy as much information as there was any reason to believe could be obtained from them. It might appear strange, therefore, that these Returns were not sooner digested by the Commissioners. When the Returns were examined, it was found that, however desirous the Clergy might have been to give information, there were many cases in which the queries put to them were entirely misunderstood. The consequence was, that the Returns so made were in such a state as rendered it impossible to digest them in a satisfactory way. It became necessary, therefore, to obtain other and more correct information, and accordingly these Returns were sent back to the diocesans, for the purpose of having them corrected. He must admit, however, that the Commissioners did not certainly proceed with that expedition which he could wish as one of them. The Returns remained still in the hands of the Bishops. Having said thus much on this part of the subject, he could not sit down without saying, that he entertained the opinion expressed by the noble Lord. He felt confident, that when the whole amount of the revenue now received by the clergy of this country became known, it would be found that it was no more than was absolutely necessary to support them in anything like decent independence. If the income now arising from the
 838 839
 Mr. Estcourt  thought it would be advisable to adopt a more simple Resolution than that proposed by the noble Lord. It appeared to him, that voluntary commutation would be the more desirable course. There were circumstances connected with the payment of tithes in some places, of which the noble Lord did not seem to be aware, and for which no provision had been thought of. There were districts, for instance, in some parishes, that were subject to vicarial tithes when sown with corn, while other parts of the same parish were exempt. He would suggest to the noble Lord, that, in any measure which might be introduced, it would be desirable to recognise the principle of voluntary commutation.
 Mr. Greene  considered that in agreeing to, the House should not be held concluded by, the Resolutions. The plan required much consideration, for in many instances they would find as much difference between one parish and another as between one county and another. He should be obliged to the noble Lord to state how he would arrange as to the proportion of payments to the lay Rector and to the Vicar. He was sorry, that he was called on, without due consideration, to affirm these Resolutions. He would much rather that the Bill should have been introduced in the first instance; and he certainly should not feel himself precluded from taking any course which it might hereafter appear to him expedient to adopt.
 Mr. Frankland Lewis  had but one observation to offer to the House. However feasible it might be in theory, he felt sure that in practice it would not turn out that poor lands paid more tithes than rich. In Wales poor lands paid less in proportion than the richer lands paid. There was a reduction in the amount of tithes on rich lands, and a sure increase on poor lands. He had long wished for some arrangement with respect to tithes, and he sincerely wished success to the measure of the noble Lord; but, at the same time, he could not disguise from his own mind that it would be attended with a variety of difficulties in its working.
 Mr. Blamire  wished to know, whether there entered into the noble Lord's plan any provisions to settle the present disputes about tithes, which existed between several parties?
 Sir Henry Willoughby  would deny the connection which there was supposed to be between tithe and rent; for it was clear that land might pay tithe which never paid rent. It was well known that in several parts of England the land would only pay the burthens. [Sir  Robert Peel: vice versâ
 Mr. Jervis  observed, that no notice was taken in the noble Lord's plan of tithes upon wages, upon eggs, pigs, and other things, which pressed very severely upon the poor. He thought that these things ought to be included in any measure on the subject. He had one objection to the mode of taking averages. A parish, or even a field, might be in two different counties, and the tenants might be obliged to pay one sum for one corner of a field so situated, and a different sum for another corner. A fluctuating system of tithes would check the improvement of land, by preventing the investment of money. To the measure itself, however, he gave his cordial assent.
 Sir Robert Inglis  expressed his satisfaction at the readiness of the noble Lord to alter the wording of the Resolution; and
 835
 Sir Robert Peel  would suggest to the noble Lord, whether it would not be possible that some new principle of voluntary arrangement might be introduced. Unless it were previously determined by which party the expenses attending such an arrangement were to be paid, it would not make much progress. In so important a business as this, however, it would be no difficult matter to provide some means of preventing the inconvenience. If Commissioners were appointed, with power to call before them the parties interested, they might enable them to enter into voluntary arrangements for commutation, with a power of future redemption. It appeared to him, that a great progress might be made in commutation in this
 837
 Sir Robert Peel  did not understand what power the noble Lord had to release him from the obligation he should incur, provided he assented to the Resolutions. The noble Lord proposed, that, in lieu of tithes, the owners of tithe-able land should pay a fixed proportion of the annual value of all land throughout the several counties, and that the said proportion should be ascertained by striking an average from the parishes of each county. How could the noble Lord say, that if he voted for that Resolution, he was not as much bound by it as by any other Resolution to which he gave his assent? By affirming it, he expressed his approbation of the principles contained in it—namely, that a commutation of tithes ought to take place, calculated according to the proportionate value which rent and tithe bear to each other, and also that the redemption of tithe should be permitted at twenty-five years' purchase. If this Resolution were not intended to bind the House, why insert in it any details at all? He would propose, as an Amendment, that, instead of the noble Lord's proposition, a simple Resolution be adopted, declaring it expedient that leave be given to bring in a Bill for the purpose of effecting a commutation of tithe in England and Wales on a fair and equitable principle. What was gained by affirming this Resolution as a matter of detail? But, independent of this objec-
 832 833 834
 Sir Robert Peel  would suppose, that a rapid rise took place in the value of land in consequence of the neighbourhood of an extending town or the construction of a railway. He would suppose, that an acre of land now valued at 40 s l
 Mr. Rolfe:  The hon. Baronet who had last spoken said, that no plan would prove satisfactory unless it embraced several modes of commutation. He so far agreed with the hon. Baronet, and it
 842
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  thought, that the plan would not prove satisfactory in individual parishes, nor generally. To make commutation satisfactory in the different parishes the situation of each parish should be considered, and the plan framed so as to suit each separately. That the time granted for voluntary arrangements should be extended, was highly desirable; but if it was to be followed up by compulsion it would fail in its effect. He regretted that part of the plan which would throw odium on the Magistrates
 841
 Lord Althorp:  The composition would be made according to a fair valuation, and in all cases in which the tithe-owner did not think there was a fair valuation of the land he might demand a new and fair valuation to be made, but at his own expense.
 Lord Althorp:  Rent was not a fair test of the value of land, and, in such cases as that just mentioned tithe should undergo a new valuation.
 Lord Althorp  said, if the forms of the House would have allowed him, he would have been happy to have brought in the Bill at once; but it was necessary to propose in Committee the resolution on which his Bill was to be founded. With regard to the great and small tithes, a similar arrangement might be made with regard to them as that to which he had already alluded, with regard to moduses and fixed payments. A deduction  pro tanto
 Lord Althorp  said, it had been his object to avoid entering into details which could not yet be conveniently discussed, but which would be found to be provided for by his Bill. The Resolutions would not pledge any hon. Member to the Bill, nor even to its principles. With regard to the specific question of the hon. Member, he would say, that, upon ascertaining the amount of tithes paid, nothing could be more easy than to ascertain what propor-
 830
 Lord Althorp  replied, that the rent was a payment minus the Poor-rates, and that inasmuch as the commuted payment for tithe would be calculated on the rent, it would be obviously unjust to reduce it still further by a rate to the poor, for that would be making the Clergy pay the rate twice over.
 Lord Althorp  said, that, after consultation with the best-informed persons, and after anxious consideration of the subject, they came to the conclusion, that the best course would be to settle the whole question at once. With respect to the case of the market-gardeners, mentioned by the hon. member for Middlesex, he could not see any difficulty in it; because, if the landlords did not redeem the tithe, the occupier would, of course, take that into consideration in his agreement for rent.
 Lord Althorp  said, the hon. Gentleman must have misunderstood his statement. No such difficulty as that mentioned could arise; for, if a man laid out money on the improvement of land, he would, under the proposed measure, be at liberty to redeem the tithe, according to the rate of payment previous to the improvement. Suppose a person laid out 10,000 l
 Lord Althorp  rose to bring forward his Motion on the subject of Tithes. The noble Lord observed, that, as he should have to occupy the attention of the House for some time in the explanation of his details, he would not detain them by any prefatory remarks. The question of tithes was, certainly, one of the greatest importance to all connected with the landed interest; and though there might be much difference of opinion as to the actual right to tithe, he thought there could be none as to this,—that, whoever else might have the actual right to tithe, that right did not reside in the present landowners of the country. He might assume, therefore, that the opinion of the House would be the same; and, without going to abstract rights, he might assert, that as long as the Established Church required the aid of tithes, that Church had a claim to them prior to all others. He repeated, whatever opinions might be entertained on the abstract right, there was no one who would maintain that the right belonged to the owners of the soil.—The noble Lord here observed that his right hon. friend (Mr. Secretary Stanley) had just reminded him, that he was proceeding in rather an irregular course; for that the proper mode would be to move the subject in a Committee of the whole House. He had to apologise for his omission in this respect, for which he admitted he could not plead ignorance of the usual forms; but he would state—what was the fact, that he had forgotten it at the moment, owing to the unexpected length to which the previous debate had extended. He would now move the Order of the Day, that the House do resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House, to consider the Resolutions of which he had given notice.
 Lord Althorp  then resumed: He was saying, that, whatever opinions might be held as to the abstract right to tithes,
 819 820 821 822 823 824 s 825 826 827 828
 Colonel Evans  was of opinion, that the learned judge was not amenable to censure. The whole affair rested with his Majesty's Government. The question was one of great importance to the peace of the country; for it involved the Government as a conflicting party with all the workmen of the country. If the Under Secretary of the Home-Office were present to hear the statements, the noble Lord might, perhaps, give some satisfactory explanation, which was much needed. No person was more adverse than he was to Trades' Unions; he would not defend them, because he considered that industry was a description of property, which ought to be held the most sacred, and left the most free. He was most anxious to extend protection to every individual labourer; and such protection was quite inconsistent with any undue means of intimidation. He thought that his Majesty's Government were right in inflicting some punishment on those men, but it should have been a much lighter one.
 Colonel Evans , in rising to present a petition respectably signed by the Mayor, and others of Hastings, stated, that he should avail himself of this opportunity to put a question to the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Warre), whom he had apprised of his intention to do so. The question was in itself of importance, but infinitely more so, as connected with other matters, to which he should allude. The cause of his taking this matter up, was, that he had been politically, and he might say closely, connected with that part of the county of Sussex, had the pleasure of being acquainted with many of the most respectable and influential of the electors of Hastings, and could not therefore decline to comply with their wishes, in which great numbers concurred, to make this inquiry of the hon. Member for that borough. The question was certainly rather a peculiar one, that of asking a Gentleman if he meant to resign his seat; but then, as he should show, the grounds on which he should do so were even yet more unprecedented, and perfectly justi-
 864 865
 Colonel Evans  could not but give great credit to the noble Lord for the very ingenious manner in which he had accounted for the several failures gentlemen taking office under Government had experienced in endeavouring to obtain a seat in that House.
 Lord John Russell  did not mean to enter into all the topics that the gallant Colonel had adverted to; but there were one or two points which he felt bound to notice. First, with respect to the course Government intended to pursue with respect to certain bills for the reform of the law; the two principal measures were those which the Attorney-General, when he was a Member of the House, had been pledged to—namely, the Local Courts Bill and the Imprisonment for Debt Bill. With regard to those two measures, it was the fixed intention of his Majesty's Government to carry them through in the present Session. The gallant Colonel had also entered into a discussion with respect to elections, and had taken an opportunity of saying, that in almost every instance of Members of that House taking place under the present Government they lost their seats. That, he was ready to admit, to a certain extent was true; but still the cause of that was very soon explained. The members of former Cabinets had a ready course to regain entrance to the House through a constituency of but few individuals. That, however, was not the case since the passing of the Reform Bill;
 867
 Mr. Rotch  did not consider himself called upon to answer the observations of the hon. Member, as the Act upon which he had relied was an Act subsequent to the Act upon which those persons had been convicted. It was impossible, that the persons in question could have been indicted under the 52nd Geo. 3rd, for it did not apply to their case. He must leave the hon. and learned Member, therefore, to make out a better case. When he quoted this Act on which he (Mr. Rotch) had given his opinion, he would then meet him.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor , in explanation, observed, that he had not plied upon the
 863
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  begged to offer a few observations upon the law of the case, although, in doing so, he might, perhaps, be charged with impertinence in placing his opinion in opposition to that of hon. Gentlemen who had yesterday alluded to the Act of Parliament under which these unfortunate men had been tried. It appeared that they had been tried under the 37th Geo. 3rd; and it appeared, also, by a reference to that Act, that it was directed against persons who might attempt to seduce sailors and soldiers from their allegiance. The 52nd Geo. 3rd had been passed for the purpose of explaining the Act, and it was injustice to those men to indict them antler the former, when the latter was in existence. He did not hesitate to say,
 861 862
 Mr. Warre  said, it was perfectly true, that an offer had been made him of a seat at the Treasury Board; and, upon that being done, he had acted as he thought it was right to do—communicated it to his friends and supporters, thinking that they had a perfect right to see the position in which he stood; and he was sure, that the gallant Colonel was too well aware of what the place which was offered him was, to suppose that he was actuated in what he had done by any improper considerations. He did not consider it necessary to give any other answer to the observations of the gallant Colonel; what he had done was perfectly well known; he did not repent of it; and by the course he had adopted, he was ready to abide. With respect to the statement of the gallant Colonel, that he had lost his supporters, all he had to say was, that it was as easy to make assertions of that description on the one side as on the other. The town had been placarded, as was usual on all elections; and if the gallant Colonel could draw any inference from that, he was most welcome to do so. He would again repeat, that what he had done he should not repent of, and intended to abide by.
 Mr. Wason  had no doubt of the legality of the sentence passed on those unhappy men. The right hon. Baronet, the member for Cumberland, said, that two days had been spent in considering their case; but then the object of inquiry was not whether the sentence was severe, but upon a doubt raised by the counsel, whether the law applied to their case. Every one knew, that when it became the duty of a judge to pronounce sentence of transportation for any crime, it could not be for a less term than seven years; and he was sure, that if such a term as three years could be given to those men for a punishment, the learned judge would have willingly limited their sufferings to that period. Let no doubt be entertained, then, of the legality of the sentence. At the same time, he thought that the Government should have interposed its authority to mitigate the heavy sentence of those men, and make their punishment more proportionate to their crime.
 Mr. Hutt  had a Petition, signed by upwards of
 860
 Mr. Cayley  said, he felt as much sympathy for the shipping interest as the hon. member for the Tower Hamlets; but he thought the
 869 ad-valorem s. s. s. s. s.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  brought down the following Message from the Crown:—
 'WILLIAM R. 'His Majesty acquaints the House of Commons, that, having taken into his consideration the present state of the Most Honourable Military Order of the Bath, he deems it proper that measures should be taken for regulating and limiting the number of the members of the several classes, as well as for the purpose of relieving persons, upon whom, in future, this distinction shall be conferred, from the payment of fees and charges, as authorised by the existing standards and regulations. His Majesty makes this communication, in the perfect confidence that his faithful Commons will direct due in-
 873
 Sir George Strickland  would bear his humble testimony to the effective and impressive manner in which this question had been brought before the House and the country by the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer). From the measure the noble Lord intended to introduce, the country would have to date a new era of happiness and prosperity, and it would be deeply indebted to the present Government for bringing it forward. The report on which the noble Lord had based his intended Bill, was drawn up in the most able manner, and no praise was too great for the talent, zeal, and industry which had been exerted by the Commissioners who drew up that report. He differed widely from the hon. Member opposite in thinking that the noble Lord ought to have mixed up the question of Poor-laws in Ireland with the present plan. Let the amended system first be tried in England, and then, if the practical working of it were attended with beneficial results, a similar system might be with firmness and consistency, introduced into Ireland.
 Colonel Torrens  begged to congratulate the House on the measure which the noble Lord proposed to bring forward, and he thought that no passage in the speech of the noble Lord was more deserving of approbation than where he said that the alteration was principally intended, not for the benefit of the landlord and the capitalist, but for that of the labourer and the agriculturist. This was a sound view of the subject. It was one of the means of
 891
 Colonel Wood  approved of the plan of the noble Lord, and anticipated the happiest effects from its adoption throughout the country. It was extremely desirable to set at liberty as much as possible of the labour of the lower orders of society, in order that it might be brought into the most suitable market under every possible advantage. He believed, that would be the consequence of the measure of the noble Lord. He begged to thank the noble Lord and the Ministry for the measure. The question of Poor-laws was no party question. The lower orders in different parts of the country could not fail to perceive, that this was a measure in which they were specially interested, and that it must prove highly beneficial to them. The existing system
 894
 Mr. Baring  asked the noble Lord his intentions respecting the Labour-rate Bill?
 Mr. Lennard  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to alter and amend the Game-laws. He was gratified that it would not be necessary for him to detain the House, as the present Bill was similar to the one he had introduced last year on the amendment of the Game-laws. He thought the subject was an important one, as it concerned various classes of society, rich and poor. He had understood, that many persons were anxious to support the measure, who did not imagine it would have been brought on so soon. The present Game-law was one of gross injustice, inasmuch as it deprived the holder of the land from any dominion over the game. Under the old law, the occupier had the power of giving the game to any one he pleased. But he was deprived by a clause in the Act lately passed of that fair power. The landlord alone being made the legal owner, if a man held a large tract on a lease of three lives, he could not, under the present Act, notwithstanding the valuable interest he held in the land, give any power over the game, but the landlord could, in despite of the tenant, come to the ground and dispose of the game. That illiberal clause was introduced in the House of Lords, for the purpose of impeding and neutralizing the Act; and it was adopted by the House of
 899
 Colonel Wood  said, that however anxious for an improved system of Game-laws, he should state that the hon. Member had not clearly explained, or minutely detailed, the objects of his Bill. It was a very rare case in which a person, properly qualified, was prevented from killing game. It was no new thing for landlords to reserve to themselves the power over game. They always did so; and by the late Act the tenants were not prevented from killing game. Why should the House be called upon to change the law; because, forsooth, there might have been one or two cases of hardship? Game was never the property of the occupier, but was, according to the ancient laws and usages of the country, acknowledged to be the property of the landlord. He did not like the old Game-code. He was glad it was repealed. But then there should be some moderation, some policy and justice, too, in the process of abrogation. The hon. Mover would place game at the disposal of the occupier. He was sure, that never had been the law, and the hon.
 900
 Colonel Williams  rose to make the Motion of which he had given notice, relative to the admission of Dissenters to take degrees in the Universities. He said, that with the permission of the House, he would commence by reading his Motion, which was to the following effect:—"That an humble Address be presented to the King, requesting his Majesty to signify his pleasure to the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge respectively, that those bodies no longer act under the Edicts or Letters of James 1st, 1616, 'by which he would have all that took any Degree in schools to subscribe to the three articles of the 36th Canon;' with the exception of those proceeding to Degrees in Divinity; nor to require the declaration, namely, 'that I am  bona fide 901 Edicts Letters Demonology. 902
 Mr. Hill  said, that at the outset of life he had been deprived of the benefits of an education at the University, by the operation of the very law which the House was now discussing, and his feeling of discontent and disappointment was never stronger than when he saw the learning and talent displayed by persons connected with the Universities. The hon. member for the University of Oxford represented, that one of the grievances of which the Dissenters complained was the obligation to take the Oath of Allegiance. In this he was sure the hon. Baronet was mistaken, for his own intercourse with the Dissenters was very great, and he had never heard that they considered the Oath of Allegiance as a grievance. He must beg leave to remind the hon. Baronet, that there was a time when the Dissenters were more willing to take the oath of allegiance than the learned body which he so well represented; and he must also beg leave to remind him, that the views of that learned body were enlightened upon the subject, not by polemical discussions—not by the labours of any casuist who took pains to examine the question minutely; but their doubts were removed by General Carpenter and a troop of horse—a mode of conviction which the Dissenters never required when their allegiance and their loyalty to the House of Brunswick were put to the test. The Dissenters were, in fact, always too ready to forego their own claims in favour of claims which, though not more just, might be of more cogent urgency. Although he agreed with the hon. member for Oxford, that a large proportion of the Dissenters of this country were in favour of an Establishment, and would be sorry to see the foundations of the Church sapped, yet he must call his
 927
 Lord John Russell  said, he should have thought it unnecessary, on the part of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, to ask him and his friends, what their opinion was on the question before the House. The great essential principle on which his Majesty's present Government were disposed to proceed, with reference to it, had more than once been unequivocally stated. He had no hesitation in declaring, that with respect to the principle on which education ought to be conducted in our Universities, he perfectly concurred in every word contained in the petition from the University of Cambridge, which, in his opinion, embodied, in the most moderate and clear terms, the soundest argument in favour of a system equally advantageous to the interests of learning and of religion. It had been said, that no necessity had been made out for such a measure as that now proposed. His answer was, that the necessity for continuing the existing restrictions ought to be shown by those who were the advocates of them. They ought to show why those who were desirous of enjoying all the advantages of an education at the University should not be permitted to do so, and should not be allowed to receive all the honours due to superior literary and scientific attainment and yet follow the dictates of their own conscience in religious matters. It was but a few years ago that no man could be promoted to the rank of a General in the Army, without previously declaring himself a member of the Church of England. That restriction had been abolished. He held, that the same principle was applicable to the subject under the consideration
 918 919 920
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  was surprised, on reading the prayer of the Petition, that a discussion should have arisen upon such a variety of subjects, when the House had merely to consider the propriety of permitting bonded corn to be manufactured into biscuit, and returned again into bond. He could assure the House, that the subject had received from the Board, to which he had the honour to belong, the best attention it was in his power to give. It might be advisable to permit flour to be ground in bond, or to be baked into biscuit in
 872
 Mr. Tower  said, the Petition was a most unfair one, and hoped that its prayer would not be granted. The Repeal of the Corn-laws would be nothing better, in his opinion, than a species of political swindling.
 Mr. Tower  was anxious that means should be devised for employing the labouring poor in the cultivation of the waste lands of Great Britain and Ireland. Every Englishman ought to be considered as having a right to cultivate his native soil, and live by his own industry.
 Mr. Baines  only wished to state two facts. One of them was in answer to an argument of the hon. Baronet opposite, in which he had been pleased to say, that a great proportion of the Colleges in our two Universities were formed by Protestant founders. Now, so far as regarded the number of colleges, the hon. Baronet was evidently in a mistake. Of the sixteen Colleges at Cambridge, twelve, and of the nineteen Colleges at Oxford, thirteen, were founded before the Reformation. There was one peculiarity about the statutes of all those Colleges to which he wished to call the attention of the House, and that peculiarity was, that they were declared open to all. In making them exclusive establishments, the intention of the founders had been grossly violated. At this moment there was a disposition among the Protestant Dissenters to do all in their power to conciliate the Establishment, and that disposition had never been more strikingly displayed than on a very recent occasion, when the noble Lord below him brought forward his proposition for the commutation of tithes in England and Wales. Never was a proposition announced which was more calculated to give stability to the Church, and never was there a proposition to which the Dissenters had offered less opposition. The Dissenters, therefore, had a right to put in their claim for a reciprocity of kindness from the Church. He would not trespass further on the attention of the House than to remark, that as the colleges were formed for all, they ought to be enjoyed by all; and that, in limiting their students to one sect, the original intention of their founders had been violated.
 Mr. Edward Lytton Bulwer  had paid a great deal of attention to the subject, and as it happened that in the course of the last year he had formed a plan nearly coincident with that proposed by the noble Lord, he should of course give the present Motion his earnest support. The administration of the Poor-laws in America furnished a good example of the efficiency of the plan. Those Poor-laws had been introduced into every state but one, and it was found that in those states where a strict workhouse discipline was kept up the practice worked uniformly well, and on the contrary, that in the states where these wholesome regulations had been departed from, the practice had uniformly worked badly. He would venture to recommend that one of the Commissioners should be a Member of that House that he might be enabled to communicate information to the people. On one point he must observe, that he thought that the proposed alteration of the laws respecting bastardy would not be altogether palatable to the people of England, though he thought it would produce the best results. Nothing could have so demoralising an effect as a system under which a woman with three children was a fortune to any working man who married her, and one with six was absolutely a great heiress. He had nothing further to do on that occasion than thank the noble Lord for the admirable manner in which he had brought forward his admirable proposition.
 Mr. George Wood  denied, that he had said
 913
 Mr. George Wood  rose, to propose as an amendment, that leave be given to bring in a Bill to grant to his Majesty's subjects generally the right of admission to the English Universities, and of equal eligibility to degrees therein, notwithstanding their diversities of religions opinion; degrees in divinity alone excepted. He had not been aware of his hon. friend's intention to proceed, or he would at once have given way; but he felt that it would be better to proceed by a Bill, and under this feeling alone, he submitted his Motion to the House. He founded his Motion on the simple proposition that our Universities were national establishments; and, as such, that his Majesty's subjects of all denominations, were entitled to resort to them for their education. This seemed, he would say, so simple—so unanswerable a proposition, that he thought he should only weaken it by any attempt to give strength to it beyond this general statement. But, it might be asked, if the fact were really so obvious, how came it that such a different practice prevailed,
 903 904
 Mr. Aglionby  hoped the House would bear in mind, that the question did not at all involve the Game-laws in general, but was simply whether or not the 7th section of the existing Act should be suffered to continue in force, when it operated as an  ex-post-facto
 Mr. Goulburn  wished to enter his protest both against the Motion and the Amendment before the House, as well as against the opinions which had been expressed by the hon. and learned Member. The House stood at present in a very peculiar situation, having before it two Motions, each affecting deeply the interest of the Universities, and differing entirely from one another if not in substance, yet in form. They had, moreover, a speech from the hon. and learned Gentleman, who professed to support one or both Motions, in which he took a view, differing very widely, in many respects, from the views of the proposer of the Motion. Few Gentlemen who had the good fortune to hear the speech of the hon. Member who introduced the Motion, would, he thought, after that, be inclined to support it; or, if he supported it, would, at least, not support it on the grounds which the hon. Gentleman advanced. That hon. Gentleman thought it right to correct the errors of James 1st and Elizabeth, and one of his means of doing so was the abolition of a declaration, required at Cambridge from persons taking degrees, that they were  bonâ fide 912
 Mr. Goulburn : The hon. Member said, that the Dissenters should adopt the system of education now pursued in the University. He would notice an argument used by the hon. and learned Member, who contended, that because the rights and privileges of the Universities had been secured by Acts of Parliament, that because the Legislature had confirmed their title to the privileges and property which they possessed, it had, on that account, a right to deal with them as they thought proper. It, surely, was a very curious argument, that because Parliament had confirmed a pre-existent right, it should, therefore, destroy it. That argument was particularly curious coming from a learned Gentleman. By admission to the honours of the University, the Dissenters would obtain a share in the governing power. By Act of Parliament is given to the governing power of the Protestant Universities the right of presenting to advowsons possessed by one class of Dissenters, viz. Roman Catholics; and yet, by the Act now proposed, the precaution thus established would be entirely overthrown, and to Dissenters would be given the power of appointing to the livings and benefices of the Church Establishment. If the object of the Universities was merely the advancement of literature, he might not have been so very scrupulous, but he felt that the system of education pursued at these Universities was the only system which it became a Legislature to encourage—viz. knowledge combined with religion. Thus, and thus only, was instruction sanctified, and thus only could they hope to correct the evils which too frequently spring from knowledge unaccompanied by religion. [ A laugh. 914 915 916 917
 Mr. Hardy  observed, that the bill was intended for the relief of all parties. There would be a provision in it, reserving to bishops and other ecclesiastical authorities, the spiritual powers which they at present possessed in reference to all assemblies of members of the Church for the purposes of religious worship.
 Mr. Hardy  said, one of the necessary consequences of the plan of the noble Lord would be, the appointment of a Registry of Births. He approved generally of the measure, but it would be necessary to make some alteration in it, so as to make provision for the settlement of paupers.
 Mr. Hardy , in moving for leave to bring in a bill to repeal the Act of 52 Geo. 3, c. 155, in so far as it related to the assembling of twenty persons, besides the family, for the purpose of religious worship in a private house, said, that in the year 1812, at the request of the Wesleyan Methodists, an act was very properly passed, the 52d Geo. 3rd, repealing the 13th, 14th, and 17th of Charles 2nd, and also the 22nd Charles 2nd, commonly called the Conventicle Act. The second clause, however, of the Act of Repeal restricted the number of persons assembling in a private dwelling-house for worship, exclusive of the family, to twenty. That clause of the Act was continually violated; more especially in districts where there was a want of public accommodation for the purposes of religious worship. Persons assembled in a greater number than twenty, were rendered liable to the penalties prescribed by the act,—penalties serious in amount, and one-half of which would go to the informer, and yet there were many places where the violation of it was necessarily habitual. What he wished to do was, to restore to every man the right and privilege which he possessed by the common law of the land, to assemble as many persons as he pleased in his dwelling-house for the purposes of worship and religious instruction. The House was not to imagine that this part of the act had been allowed to lie as a dead letter. In some instances it had been very improperly, and with great impolicy, carried into force. It had been enforced, for instance, against Lord Barham, who had religious worship performed in his servants' hall by more than twenty persons. Under the existing law, the minister might talk as long as he pleased to a congregation so assembled—the congregation might, if they pleased, talk sedition or blasphemy with impunity; but the moment that he and they committed an act of worship or adoration, they were liable to the penalties prescribed by this act of Parliament. He concluded by making his Motion.
 Mr. Richards  was understood to compliment the Government for having undertaken this arduous task, but, at the same time to complain that the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had not taken that large and comprehensive view of the difficulties and nature of the Poor-laws which the present occasion demanded, nor pointed out the means by which those difficulties were to be removed. The noble Lord had seemed to impute to the mal-administration of the existing laws all the abuses which prevailed, but had not uttered a single syllable in opposition to the principle upon which those laws were founded. The causes of distress had not been touched upon by the noble Lord—a most important question to bring to the consideration of the subject of the Poor-laws. He would not trouble the House with the effects which had been produced by the change in the currency, but must remark that much of the distress and the evils arising therefrom were to be attributed to the alternations between poverty and distress, which had afflicted this country, and caused much of the pauperism complained of. He must also express his regret that in calling the attention of the Legislature to the state of the Poor-laws,
 890
 Mr. Wilks  begged the House to bear in mind, that this was not a measure for the relief of the Protestant Dissenters, but for the relief of the members of the Established Church. He would not give it any opposition. It was for the House, however, to consider how far it was expedient to put an end to the regulation in question. He would frankly state, that the Methodists and Dissenters of England did not complain of it. The operation of the proposed bill would be to relieve the members of the Church of England from a regulation of their own Church.
 Mr. Cripps  wished to say, that he was in favour of the principle of having the owner instead of the occupier of small tenements rated.
 Mr. Hume  said, that if there were any one thing more necessary than another to the complete success of the measure, it was the uniformity of the plan proposed. In every instance the overseers of a parish
 893
 Mr. Hume  seconded the Motion. He considered the clauses which it was proposed to repeal committed a gross injustice. The Lords should have been ashamed of themselves to introduce such clauses.
 Mr. Hume  saw no connexion between the question of currency and the subject under the consideration of the House. The simple question was, whether the shipping interest of this country was to receive the benefit of biscuits manufactured here on the same terms as they could be manufactured by foreigners? It was a question of the greatest importance, not only to the shipping interest, but to the country at large, and one that the Government ought to take under their serious consideration. He gave the prayer of the petition his cordial support.
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  expressed his hearty concurrence in the measure proposed by the noble Lord.
 Mr. Slaney  also approved of the proposed system, and expressed the great pleasure he felt at the unanimity of the House composed of Gentlemen who differed on almost every topic that came under their notice. He trusted it would restore the English labourer to his old station of independence, when the best workmen would be the best paid, and the best behaved man would be the best off. This it was well known was not the case at present. He was entirely in favour of the Central Board and of the new system for the management of workhouses, in which he especially praised the arrangement by which the several classes would be separated, the old and helpless being placed apart in a state of comparative comfort, the able-bodied compelled to work, and the children provided with the means of education. He was only sorry, that the noble Lord had not adopted a recommendation of the Commissioners to the effect, that the owners, instead of the occupiers, of small tenements should be rated.
 Mr. Robert Wallace  said, many of his constituents were in the same situation with respect to biscuit-baking as those of the hon. Member who presented the petition. They found it impossible to continue their manufactories while such superior advantages were enjoyed by their continental neighbours, for which, however, he and they saw no other remedy than a repeal of the Corn-laws. Unless that took place, protection to a great extent must be afforded them which would injure other trades.
 Dr. Lushington  said, it seemed to him, that the hon. Member did not appear clearly to understand the nature of the question before the House. The hon. Member first expressed his fear that, if the Dissenters were once permitted to enter the University of Oxford, the utter ruin of the Established Church would be the inevitable consequence; and yet, in the same breath, he stated, that he was acquainted with a great body of Protestant Dissenters who were most anxious to preserve the Protestant Church, and were ready to protect it as the best means of securing religious freedom. He would just ask the House, how it was possible to reconcile those contradictions? He would ask, too, why it was, that they were to refuse equal admission to the Dissenters, when even the great advocate of the monopoly of education had stated his conviction, that a great body of these Dissenters were anxious to support the Established Church. It was an incontrovertible fact, that these Universities were great public establishments, protected by Charters and specific Acts of Parliament; that these establishments held their Charters and their possessions, which having formerly belonged to Roman Catholics, had been conferred on, or secured to, the Universities by the Legislature. But it should be recollected that the object proposed was the enlargement of the field of literature; and the question for consideration was, whether facilitating this object by the admission to equal advantages, with other candidates for college honours at Oxford, would have the effect of overthrowing the Established Church? He hoped the Established Church was placed upon too broad and solid a basis to be shaken by any measure such as that before the House, to which he was anxious to give his most hearty and cordial support. In doing this he felt, that, instead of endangering the Establishment, he was rendering it more secure; for it
 909 910 911
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  said, it was now proved, that the Corn-laws had not paid the National Debt, nor enabled the landed interest to discharge the mortgages and incumbrances on their property. They had, therefore, been most inefficacious. In fact, they did not protect the farmer, and they ruined the manufacturer. The Corn-laws had acted most delusively and destructively to the landed interest. He wished for fair and remunerative prices, such as would give the labourer what he ought to receive,—namely, 15 s. s. l. 871
 Mr. Estcourt  said, that the question then submitted for the consideration of the House, was one of such importance, and of so much interest to his constituents, that he hoped the House would consider that fact a sufficient apology for his taking up the time of the House. He must, in the first instance, complain of the assertion of the hon. member for Lancashire, who had stated, that if the degrees in arts were conferred on Dissenters, they would be bestowed on persons of more conscientious feelings than those who now enjoyed them. He begged to state, in reply, that there were no men more honourably entitled to those distinctions than the Gentlemen who now enjoyed them. He objected to the propositions of the mover of the original Motion, and of the
 905 906 907 908
 Mr. Estcourt  suggested, that it would be well to have the law relating to settlement carefully considered and totally remodelled. He was sure that the country would be deeply indebted to the noble Lord for abolishing settlements by hiring and service. The noble Lord seemed dis-
 897
 Mr. Ord  said, that the proposed measure would not interfere with the discipline of the colleges, but would merely go to remove the tests which were now imposed upon Dissenters in taking their degrees. Whatever regulations the Universities might choose to adopt for their internal discipline, would be left to their own discretion. He would remind hon. Gentlemen opposite, that no religious education was given by the Universities, as Universities—at least, by the University of Cambridge, with which he was best acquainted. He was now speaking of the time when he had himself graduated. He was aware, that since then an examination of a religious character had been introduced; but though of a religious nature, it could not be said, by any means, to partake of a doctrinal character. It was only such an examination as required students to be acquainted with the language of the Gospels, and the history and evidences of the Christian religion. If he wanted a confirmation of this assertion, he could refer to the authority of one of the greatest ornaments of the present age—Professor Sedgwick, who, in a letter lately written by him, backed this declaration by an appeal to the subjects of examination, and stated, that there was nothing in them in which any Dissenter could object to be examined. If then it could be proved, that the Universities, as Universities, did not teach the doctrines of religion to their students in the same sense in which they taught mathematics and other courses of learning,—as they taught physic to those who went out in medicine, and civil law to those who went out in law; if, he said, they did not teach religion in this way,—if the student never heard of the Thirty-nine Articles, or of the doctrines upon which they were founded from the University, as a University, until he was about to take his degree; he said it was an injustice to the Dissenters to turn round upon them at the moment they presented themselves to take their degrees, and to say, that they should not reap that reward which their talents and their diligent study deserved, and should not go forth to the world with the credit which a degree at the University conferred. This was a
 926
 Sir Charles Burrell  said, however good the Bill was, and he had no doubt that it was brought forward with fair intentions, and would relieve many of the evils now complained of, yet he thought the Bill would be much improved if there were introduced a clause in it empowering parishes, if not rendering it incumbent on them, to give employment to the adult and well-conducted labourers. Such a clause he thought necessary to be introduced; for if the willing labourer could not get employment what was to be the result? He would not starve, and if he got no work then he would adopt a course that would not be, perhaps, very consistent with either law or public safety. The extra parochial labourer should undoubtedly have some asylum afforded to him in employment, if not in relief. It was necessary to give the labourers employment if it was designed to keep them amenable to the laws and to preserve social order. If any principle of coercion were introduced into the Bill he would oppose it.
 Sir Charles Burrell  was confident, that the landed interest had no desire whatever to interfere with the shipping interest, but were perfectly ready to give it every fair consideration. He, for one, thought, that the shipping interest had been very harshly treated by what was called free trade, acting on the principles of which had been productive of great injustice. A large portion of the carrying trade had already been driven by that means from this country. If the boon sought for could be granted without encouraging fraud, so far from the landed interest interfering to prevent the shipping interest obtaining that advantage, they would readily forward that object.
 Mr. Ward  did not rise for the purpose of going into a general discussion of the question. He simply rose to express his concurrence with the hon. member for Middlesex as to the necessity of establishing one uniform system of Poor-laws thoughout the country. He was satisfied, too, that without a Central Board such a uniformity could not be established; and he therefore looked upon that Board as a necessary part of the
 895
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, the noble Lord expressed his adhesion to the Motion in language pretty nearly, if not entirely, the same as that in which one of the noble Lord's colleagues expressed his adhesion to the prayer of the Cambridge petition. The least extensive, however, of the two propositions submitted to the House that night embraced a far wider and more important change than any suggested in the Petition. Either of the two propositions, if adopted, would completely overturn the constitution of the Universities of this country. Technically speaking, no legislative measure could be made to rest on either of the propositions submitted to the House that night. The obvious and more direct course would be to repeal so much of the Act of Uniformity as bore upon the question. If the Bill now proposed passed into a law, the necessity would still remain of taking the Oath of Supremacy and the Oath of Allegiance. The hon. and learned member for the Tower Hamlets stated, that the Universities were national institutions, though he limited the claims of admission into them, by saying that they should be open indiscriminately to all professors of Christianity. If it was the right of the subject generally to enter the Universities, and take degrees, (for to this extent the principle of the hon. and learned member for the Tower Hamlets seemed to go), how could they fairly and conscientiously exclude from the same benefits that class of his Majesty's subjects professing the Hebrew religion. He did not see how they could stop short, if they were once to make this inroad on the constitutions of Oxford and Cambridge. It was not without good and sound reason, that the regulations which it was now sought to get rid of, were originally established. All experience, from the earliest time up to the present day, sufficiently proved, that unless those intrusted with the education of youth communicated religious instruction upon some fixed and definite standard of belief, the objects of religious instruction could never be attained. How was it possible to convey such instruction in any other way? If pupils were perfectly free to differ from their instructors, to entertain and to avow what tenets they
 921 922 923 924 925
 Sir Samuel Whalley  said, that as a guardian of the poor in a parish which
 892
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  thanked the noble Lord for the system of Poor-laws which he had that evening brought forward. He highly approved of the plan; but he was afraid, that hon. Members generally were not aware of the difficulty that would be experienced in carrying that plan into effect. The part of the measure which he most approved of was that which related to the establishment of a Central Board of Commissioners, to administer the law in the respective parishes throughout the country. The Magistrates had at present a most unpleasant and difficult task to perform; and he, as one, would most willingly throw from his own shoulders, to those of the Commissioners, the responsibility which rested on the Magistrates in the administration of the Poor-laws. Little would he envy them the office of administering those laws. The applications for parochial relief had of late become so numerous—the expenditure so heavy—and the abuses so great—that most Magistrates would be glad to be relieved from the responsibility which rested on them in reference to the Poor-laws. It had been said by an eminent Statesman, that we had outgrown our institutions. This was particularly true as regarded the workhouse system. He was glad therefore to find, that the workhouse system was to be extended, and that the allowance system was to be discontinued. It had been very properly stated by the noble Lord, that though there might be a seeming harshness in carrying this regulation into effect, yet there was reason to believe that some means would be found to give assistance to those paupers who were really deserving of charity. He hoped that any landed gentlemen or farmers who might constitute part of the Board of Commissioners, would say to those able-bodied paupers who applied for relief, "We can't give you parochial aid, but we will try to find you employment. He was glad that the Board of Commissioners were to superintend the management of the workhouse. He had himself seen many instances of gross mismanagement under the present system of Poor-laws in workhouses. He had no doubt, whatever, that that Board would administer the proposed system to great advantage. With respect to the regulation relative to bastardy, all he would say was,
 896
 Mr. Clay  said, that the present price of biscuits was 14 s. s.
 Mr. Clay  presented a petition from Wapping, praying to be permitted to take meal and flour now in bond out, convert it into biscuits, and return it into bond so that it might be exported as biscuits. The petitioners, after stating that the business of biscuit-baking, formed a most important branch of manufacture at the seaports of England, proceeded to set forth the depressed state of that trade. They attributed the great failing-off to the operation of certain acts of Parliament lately passed, by which most of the shipping engaged in the British colonies were supplied by the Americans or other foreigners. They were of opinion, that if the recommendation contained in the petition were carried into effect, the trade, which was now almost entirely engrossed by foreigners, would be restored to this country; that a great increase of British labour would necessarily take place, and that above all, the paramount interest of British shipping would be greatly benefited by bringing flour here, and carrying the biscuits away to supply our colonies and dependencies, as well as by obtaining biscuits at a much lower rate. It was unnecessary for him to say one word in that assembly upon the importance of affording every support to the shipping interest; the commercial prosperity of the country being so intimately bound up with it. By the evidence given before the Committee last year, it distinctly appeared, that of all the interest in the country, the shipping interest was in the most depressed state. By the Reciprocity Act of 1826, the shipping interests had been deprived of all protection by throwing the trade open to the competition of all nations that would consent to pay the duties. He should not have given notice of his intention to present this petition but for the great advantage the shipping interest, in his opinion, would derive from the recommendation contained in the petition. Depressed as that interest was, it was, perhaps, the only mode in which relief could be afforded without any infringement of the other great interests of the country, while, at the same time, it would be a further extension of the great principles of free trade, the general adoption of which alone could benefit the depressed commerce of the country.
 Lord Althorp  entertained great doubts as to the policy of passing such a bill as that now proposed by the hon. Member. He would not, however, oppose its being brought in. He must, at the same time, say, that it was a measure which would, at a future stage, require the serious consideration of the House.
 Lord Althorp  said, he felt it his duty not to surfer the question to go to a vote without expressing his thanks and gratitude to the several hon. Gentlemen who had addressed the House. As to the observation of the hon. member for Marylebone, who hoped, that the Commissioners would not interfere with parishes that were well regulated, he had to say, that he hoped they would not. The only mode in which he trusted they would deal with such parishes would be by following their example. When a parish was really well regulated, it need not entertain the slightest apprehension of interference upon the part of the Commissioners. He further had to state, that additional Commissioners would be necessary to communicate between the country and the Central Board. He did not propose that any Magistrate should have the power of ordering relief beyond the bounds of his own parish; and where vestries were too small, and parishes inconsiderable, it was intended to unite them with other parishes.
 Lord Althorp , in rising to call the attention of the House to the existing laws for the relief of the Poor in England, said, that most undoubtedly the Motion which he was about to introduce for the consideration of the House, was one of as great importance as any that had ever been submitted to its notice. The present state of the Poor-laws of this country had long been a subject which had occupied the attention and engaged the minds of the ablest men in it, and various attempts had been made from time to time by persons very conversant with their operation and effects to amend those laws, to remedy the evils, and to correct the abuses engendered by them; but hitherto unfortunately all such attempts had uniformly been unsuccessful. Such was the state in which his Majesty's Ministers, when they came into office, found the present system of Poor-laws. They found, that for many years complaints had been made as to the mode in which the administration of the Poor-laws had affected every class more immediately connected with or interested in the soil,—the landed proprietors, the farmers, and the poor themselves; they found that
 875 876 877 878 879 880 881 882 883 884 885 886 887 888 ipso fasto 889
 Lord Althorp  was understood to say, that the Legislature had not intended, in passing the existing law, to confer any new rights on the landlords; and, therefore, in as far as the Bill would only go to restore to tenants the rights they had before possessed, he should not object to its introduction.
 Lord Althorp  was understood to state in reply, that although on a former occasion he had expressed his assent to the principle on which the Bill was founded, yet that now, having a project for an effective Reform of the Poor-laws in progress, he did not think it desirable to touch the measure respecting which the hon. Gentleman had made inquiry. [An  Hon. Member
 Captain Curteis  rose to protest against the long discussions which arose on the presentation of petitions, which prevented other Members from bringing forward those petitions with which they were intrusted. With regard to the sentence on the convicted men, he thought the country was under great obligations to his Majesty's Ministers for not remitting it. In that part of Sussex with which he was acquainted, some Unions had been formed, and oaths taken at them; but since the conviction of the men at Dorchester, the labourers had left the Unions.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  admitted, that the question brought before the House by the petition was one of great importance. The arguments used against Government were proofs, in his opinion, that the Act was necessary, and that, probably, it had saved many other unfortunate men from falling into the same snare. The Unions were now well aware of the illegality of their proceedings, and were so from the very first. But, supposing the case had not been properly judged, and the law of the land had been misinterpreted (which he would not admit to be the case), this was not the place to discuss that subject. He could not say that he was a lawyer, but he had read and endeavoured to make up his mind upon the case, and he did think, if there was ever a point of law, or a case more clear than another, it was this; and he thought the opinion of the learned Judge perfectly consonant with the spirit and letter of the statute. The determination of the Government he considered an act of mercy, and they had no other course to pursue in regard to those interests which they were bound to protect, for they must not slink from the exercise of the law. He, for one, protested against the doctrines of the hon. member for Bath, and publicly thanked the Government for their conduct in this business.
 Colonel Evans  observed, that the hon. Baronet, in saying, that the House of Commons was not the proper place for discussing the question of law upon the case, had thrown a greater slur upon the Government than any previous speaker. It was by a side-wind blaming the Government most severely for the haste they had displayed in sending these unfortunate men out of the country—such a haste as was not the usual way of dealing with persons sentenced to transportation. The sting of the thing was this, that, as he had
 948
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that the Resolution which he had to submit to the House, was one to which he did not anticipate much objection, and which would occupy very little of the time of the House. In the year 1814, a considerable augmentation was made in the number of Knights of the Order of the Bath, and at the same time, the Order was divided into three classes. One of the classes was to consist of a very great number of officers, and from that period to the present, no new regulations had been made to govern the Order, or to limit the number of members.
 950 l l l 951 l l
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  declared, that he had said nothing of the kind. What he had said was, that the Order might be conferred to such an extent, that it might become a mark of degradation instead of distinction. It was to avoid that, that his Majesty proposed to make a change in the Statutes of the Order.
 The Chairman  remarked, that the Amendment could not be entertained, as a Committee of the whole House could not refer a matter to a Select Committee.
 Mr. Stanley  was much surprised at some
 956 957
 Mr. O'Connell  conceived, that the first step was to ascertain whether there existed, on the part of any of the officers of the order, any legal claim to remuneration. It would appear, from what had been stated by the hon. and gallant Admiral opposite, that no legal claim to fees or salaries existed.
 Mr. Stanley  remarked, that in the instance alluded to, there could be very little doubt that the distinguished officer had received the order for meritorious services.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the hon. and gallant Admiral had said much more—namely, that many officers having received the orders at the end of the war, had left, at the levee which they had attended, the bills for their fees upon the King's table.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  thought, that very little, if any, difference of opinion seemed to prevail on the question really before the House. It had never been intended to grant compensation to individuals not legally entitled; and if it should be thought fit, when the Bill was introduced, to refer it to a Select Committee, that was to him a matter of perfect indifference. At the same time, he concurred with the right hon. Baronet (the member for Tamworth) in the opinion, that the inquiry as to claims for compensation would be likely to be more efficiently and satisfactorily made by the Treasury than by a Committee of that House. In answer to the precedent quoted by the hon. member for Bridport, he begged to state, that the claims for compensation on the abolition of their respective offices by the Commissioners for Hackney-coaches, and for Hawkers and Pedlars' Licences, had been referred to the Treasury, and not investigated before a Committee of the House.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that, in answer to a question he had put on a former occasion, as to the grounds or authority upon which a reduction in the salary of the Lord Chief Justice of the Court of King's Bench had
 963 l l l l
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that if the right hon. Baronet would repeat his inquiry on Monday, he would be prepared to refer him to the clause under which the reduction had been made. The clause not only existed, but had been very fully considered, though, looking only at the act referred to, the right hon. Baronet's view was perfectly correct.
 Sir Robert Peel  had always understood, that the salary of the Chief Justice of England had been fixed by law at 10,000 l
 Mr. Secretary Stanley : as this was a new item of expenditure, felt it necessary to explain the circumstances under which it was proposed. In the course of last year, communications were made from the town of Liverpool setting forth the frauds which were practised on poor people who, being desirous of emigrating, were induced to come over from Ireland to that town, and take their passage in ships
 964 l l
 Mr. Ruthven  regretted that this grant should be reduced, as Ireland was not in a situation, as England was, to support such an institution from its own resources.
 Mr. James Johnstone  declared, that as a Protestant, he was adverse to such an application of the public money as was involved in the present vote: as a conscientious Protestant, he could not bring him self to vote away any portion of the public money for the maintenance of that which he believed to be a false religion. He must, therefore, express his hearty concurrence in the statements of the hon. member for Caithness.
 Mr. Lefroy  allowed every Gentleman in that House full scope for the expression of his opinion, but the same licence which he granted to others, he would also look for at their hands. He felt it due to himself to deliver his conscience from the self-reproach of permitting this vote to pass without an objection. He could not understand the inconsistency of those who, professing one religion, voted funds for the propagation of another, whose doctrines they believed to be erroneous. He believed in the error of these doctrines, and, thus believing, he felt bound in the honesty of his conscientious conviction to oppose the vote, and meet with a decided negative a grant in which, though he might not be able to prevent it, he would not concur.
 Colonel Davies  said, that the public were greatly indebted to the gallant Officer for the statement he had just made. He had shown, by that statement, that there existed no right or claim whatever to demand those fees. The bill, as he understood, was intended to submit those claims to the investigation of the officers of his
 959
 Mr. Baldwin  was sure, that, when the hon. member for Middlesex considered the large sums of money drawn yearly from Ireland to be spent in this country,—and for which Ireland got no equivalent,—his humanity would prompt him not to grudge such a paltry pittance as was included in the vote, for the aid of a few aged and infirm poor in Dublin, who were, be it observed, chiefly maintained,—not by this sum, for it was wholly inadequate,—but by local contributions.
 Mr. Baldwin  was astonished at the opposition given by the hon. and learned Gentleman to so paltry a grant to the teachers of a religion from whom he had in his high professional practice received so many fees, and of whose money he had pocketed far more than the sum now proposed to be granted. The hon. and learned Gentleman was under a mistake when he stated that this grant was made for the propagation of the Catholic religion. The religion was established beyond any power in the State to put it down, and whether this grant was or was not made, its tenets
 975 976
 Major Beauclerk  presented a Petition, agreed to at a public meeting at Leeds, signed by Thomas Boslan, in behalf of the meeting, condemning the sentence passed upon the six Unionists at Dorchester, for violating an obscure Act of Parliament, and hoping that the House would interpose, and not allow one law for the rich and another for the poor. He supported the prayer of the petition, and was happy to hear, that the hon. member for Stamford said, "that, although he was violently opposed to Trades' Unions, yet he thought the law in this instance was overstretched." It would be the wildest scheme the Government ever attempted, to strike in such a manner at the Unions, and he hoped that Government would recall the men. If no other Member did, he would move an Address to his Majesty, to restore those poor men, all of whom had wives and families, to their country. He entreated his Majesty's Ministers to accede in this instance to the voice of the people, and not to strive to put down their Unions by a method which was unjust. When they did any wrong, no man would be more ready than he to put them down; but he was persuaded, that they were not to be put down by such means. Let Ministers look across the Channel, and see the French government attempting to put down the people by the bayonet, but though much blood might be shed, force would never accomplish it. Let the Government rather give relief by reducing the taxes, and so promote contentment.
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  complained, that no intimation had been given that this important vote would be brought on to-night, and declared, that if he only received the support of two Members, he would divide the Committee against it. He had heard no argument adduced in the course of the present discussion which could soothe the conscience of any sincere Presbyterian for voting in favour of the proposed grant. If money was to be voted for the encouragement of Popery, what, he asked, was the use of the Reformation? He was told that Popery had of late years changed its character; but he was at a loss to discover any change which the Roman Catholic religion, unchangeable and infallible as it had ever been assumed to be by those who professed it, had undergone. What was the use of the Articles of the Church of England, or of the Church of Scotland, when so many Members of that House, belonging to both those churches, were ready to support the proposed grant? In the Articles of the Scotch Church he found the doctrines of the Church of Rome stigmatized as idolatrous; and could he then, holding as he did a spiritual office in the Church of Scotland, with any consistency, give his consent to a grant of money to be applied to the instruction of the Roman Catholic Priesthood? He was somewhat surprised to hear the hon. and learned member for Kirkcudbright express his concurrence in the present vote. He fancied that the hon. and learned Member would find, that his constituents entertained a very different opinion on the subject. But the hon. and learned Member had travelled in the East; and he supposed this circumstance had liberalised his ideas, and caused him to reject all those old-fashioned prejudices to which strict and honest Presbyterians still pertinaciously adhered. The right hon. Secretary for Ireland also intended to support the vote; nay, he carried his liber ality still further, for it appeared from the newspapers, that he had been pleased to give a liberal donation towards the build-
 977
 Mr. Littleton  said, that the only feeling of the Irish Government on the subject was that of regret at so niggardly a grant being made. It was his opinion, that whatever defects might be found in the system of education at Maynooth, they were entirely attributable to the parsimonious scale upon which its expenses were conducted.
 Mr. Littleton , in answer to the question of his hon. friend, the member for Middlesex, said, that he had reason to believe, it would be impossible to expect the Report in the present Session; but it would be ready in the next. There were not the same facilities for carrying on the inquiry in Ireland as existed in England. The Report, however, would be ready as soon as possible; and from the zeal and diligence of the Commissioners, he was sure that, when it was prepared, it would give satisfaction to the public.
 Mr. Edward S. Ruthven  thought, that the paltry sum which was voted in this way was much better bestowed than the much larger sums paid out of the public money for the purchase of pictures. He did not see, why those paupers had not a fair claim to some assistance out of the public money as well as those of England.
 Mr. Edward Ruthven  denied, that the noble Lord (Mandeville) had formed a proper estimate of the Irish character. The noble Lord, it was true, had made the tour of Ireland—but in what capacity?—as a Methodist preacher; but many itinerant preachers were much better acquainted with the feelings of the people, and more extensively versed in divinity, than the noble Lord.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  said, that the noble Lord had inferred, that the proceedings of these men had led to the intimidation of life and property. Then they should have been tried, as he had stated on a former occasion, under the Act of the 52nd Geo. 3rd, instead of the 37th Geo. 3rd. The former Act went to explain the latter, to which those unfortunate men were not at all amenable, as it had reference merely to persons who incited others to commit murder or treason. The noble Lord had brought it as a charge against these men that they met during the night. It was the only time they could meet. When could persons in the rank of agricultural labourers meet except at night? Admitting that the Judge who tried them was right in his interpretation of the law, he must complain of the mad precipitancy with which the unfortunate men had been hurried from the dock to the hulks. It had often been a subject of complaint that the convicts were kept six and nine months in the gaols, occasioning enormous expense to the country, but in this case the opposite principle had been suddenly acted upon. Were not his Majesty's Ministers bound to listen to the remonstrances of that House? There was much commiseration, he could assure them, abroad at the present moment for these men, and it would compel his Majesty's Ministers sooner or later to yield. It was monstrous, whilst the whole country was
 945
 Mr. French  would remind the House of what had been stated by the hon. and learned Member, the Recorder of Dublin,—that the crime of infanticide had increased since the grant to this institution had been reduced.
 Mr. Finch  was convinced, that nothing could be more detrimental to the best interests of the country, or more dangerous to the constitution, than Trades' Unions. He was also informed, that the Magistrates of Dorsetshire had published hand-bills, which were distributed throughout the country, stating that such oaths were illegal. He thought, however, that the sentence having been passed, the Government might have mitigated it, as the people had been led to believe, that there was no law against combinations, since the repeal of those known as the Combination-laws. The question was not whether the House were to interfere with the sentence of the Judges, but whether Ministers were to be subject to reprehension in the House, for not having interposed the mercy of the Crown between that sentence and its execution. He certainly thought, that the unfortunate individuals in question had been hardly dealt with; for though some of them were persons of bad character,
 949
 Mr. Sinclair  had not expected, that this vote would have been brought on this evening, which, as he understood, was to have been devoted to the discussion upon Irish tithes; and he regretted the consequent absence of his hon. friend, the member for Oxford, and others, who felt a decided objection to this grant. But, although the sentiments which he entertained were by no means popular in the House, yet, as he had conscientiously adopted them, he should not shrink from the duty of a candid and public avowal. He could not forget the nature of that solemn oath, which he had more than once taken at that Table,—an oath which involved the principle, that the Popish worship was, in his opinion, to say the least of it, irreconcilable with Scripture truth,—an oath, which, though now abolished, yet stood recorded, as far as he was concerned, in Heaven; and which he could not have safely taken then, if he did not fearlessly adhere to it now. He deemed the College at Maynooth a great source of the evils which afflicted Ireland,—that it was a dan-
 969 970
 Mr. George F. Young  believed, that the conviction was legal, and deeply regretted that the violent and intemperate conduct of those who pretended to be friends of the unfortunate individuals, had placed his Majesty's Ministers in such a situation as rendered it imperative upon them to carry the sentence into effect.
 Mr. Aglionby  was anxious to defend the learned Judge who had sentenced those unhappy men; he had known that Judge for many years, and no one deserved the name of cold-hearted and cruel less than he did, though both those epithets had been applied to him, and his humanity was questioned, in consequence of his having passed so rigid a sentence. The law left no discretion to the Judge; no less a term than seven years could be mentioned in the sentence. He was sure, that, if it had been possible, consistently with the law, to reduce the punishment, the Judge, prompted by his own feelings of clemency, would have done so.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  concurred in thinking, that a reference of the subject to the officers of the Treasury was preferable to the investigation being held before a Select Committee. He could not avoid expressing his opinion, that the profuse distribution of honorary distinctions recently made, had much deteriorated the value and importance of such distinctions. Honours should be conferred with a most sparing hand, if they were to be preserved in great value. After the peace of Amiens, the First Consul conferred so many dignities, that General Moreau had said, in ridicule of the profusion of titles that were then flying on every side, that he would grant one to his cook. On the cook serving upon one occasion a dinner which pleased the general, he was summoned to the dining-parlour, and there, before all the guests, he was invested with a saucepan of honour. He was satisfied a restriction in the distribution would make these honours more highly estimated and appreciated, both by military and naval officers.
 Mr. Warburton  was opposed to an indiscriminate distribution of honorary distinctions or Orders, whether new or old, and thought, that the dignity of literary and scientific pursuits could not be heightened by such honours. He thought the suggestion of his hon. friend, the member for Middlesex, had been misunstood. His hon. friend did not oppose the principle of compensation in cases where a good title could be proved, but he claimed an inquiry into the legality of that title, and that investigation he concurred in thinking, ought to be had before a Select Committee of the House, rather than be made by the Treasury. Every precedent was in favour of the former course; and, as one instance, he was content to allude to the case of Sir Abraham Bradley King, to whom the compensation awarded by the Treasury was
 961
 Mr. Roebuck  felt he should not do his duty, if he did not say a few words on the petition. He contended, that the convicted men did not commit any illegal act. He referred the House to the words of the Act of Parliament, the 39th of Geo. 3rd, and said, that the species of
 946 v v 947
 Mr. Brotherton  had heard with pain the sentiments which had fallen from some hon. Members in that House. He felt no objection to the proposed grant; and though not belonging to either the Church of England or the Church of Rome, he was ready to admit, that there was a good deal of truth contained in the doctrines of both. If, however, he felt any objection to the grant of money to a clergy not teaching the same belief as he professed, that objection would apply as strongly against the Church of England as against the Church of Rome.
 Mr. Hume  thought, that no money had been voted for the last ten years for so useful a purpose as that now asked for. He approved also of the appointment of naval officers to fill the situation of emigration agents; they were a deserving and useful class of men. He would suggest to the right hon. Gentleman, that there was no place in the kingdom where an emigration agent was more wanted than in London. Every week he received a great number of letters and applications from persons wishing to emigrate. He mentioned this, in order to show the anxiety of the public to obtain information on the subject. There could be no doubt that the Corporation of London would afford every facility to the establishment of an agent.
 Mr. Hume  said, there were parts of this sum, the application of which he could not approve,—he meant that which was for the support of paupers in that House of Industry; for he did not see, why the people of England should be called upon to maintain the paupers of Ireland. He thought the House should consider, whether this part of the grant (about 6,000 l
 Mr. Hume  could not concur in that view of the question. The poor of England were not supported out of the public purse. They were supported from a private tax raised on the people, independently of these contributions to the public purse; and it was too much, that, when they supported their own poor, they should be called upon to contribute, out of the public purse, to maintain the poor of Ireland. He agreed with his right hon. friend (Mr. Spring Rice), that, pending the inquiry now going on as to the state of poor in Ireland, it would
 968
 Mr. Hume  said, that it mattered not to him whether or not the Bill should be referred to a Committee, before or after it had been read a second time. Under such an arrangement, he could not object to the principle of the resolution proposed by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Stanley). He would withdraw his opposition to the measure, on the understanding that in some stage it should be referred to a Select Committee.
 Mr. Hume  supported the petition. The
 939 940
 Mr. Hume  did not perceive how he had misrepresented the right hon. Gentleman. He (Mr. Hume) was as anxious as any Member that the Order of the Bath should be one of honorary distinction, and that those who had it conferred on them should not be heavily taxed. The charge for their fees, however, should not be thrown on the nation. He found that the public did pay the fees on creating a gallant Admiral a Knight of the Bath; and he did not object to its being conferred on that gallant Officer, who had greatly distinguished himself; and he was sure, that the proceeding had met with the general approbation of the country. He found the fees charged amounted to 556 l l l 954 l l l l 955
 Mr. Hume  said, that of all the various Motions that bad been submitted to the House since he had been a Member, not one had given him greater surprise than the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman. The fees paid by the Knights of the Bath were large, but they were not the sort of fees he was desirous to get rid of in the manner proposed by the right hon. Gentleman. He certainly did not intend to give compensation for the fees paid by the Knights of the Bath, or Peers, when he
 952 l l l l l 953
 Mr. Hume  would then move, that the Chairman report progress, and said, if his Motion were agreed to, he should propose that the subject be referred to a Select Committee.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  contended, that no compensation whatever ought to be given without the consent of the House. Inquiry was necessary, for it appeared, that formerly the whole amount of fees did not exceed 120 l l
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  observed, that however desirable it might be to have avoided the discussion altogether, it had now advanced to a point at which it could not be allowed to remain. It was decidedly his opinion, that the main objection to the grant was, its being too small.
 973
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson , having been pointedly alluded to by the hon. Member (Mr. A. Johnston), begged to observe, that he was prepared to justify before his constituents every sentiment he had uttered. Those sentiments were, he admitted, liberal; but, he would assert, they were Christian; and he was prepared to vote money for the education, not only of the Catholic clergy, but, if necessary, of the Hindoo priesthood too, because he was convinced that religious instruction tended to civilize men and make them better subjects.
 Mr. Spring Rice  denied, that there was anything unfair or unusual in the manner in which the present vote had been brought forward. No different notice than that which had been given on the present occasion had ever been given before, and in fact no different notice could be given, according to the forms of the House. The hon. Member who last spoke also misrepresented the few observations which had fallen from him (Mr. S. Rice). He did not express any wish to separate religious and political feelings; but he had complained of the introduction of polemics into the House of Commons, and nothing that had fallen from the hon. Member had induced him to change his opinion.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, he was sure that
 971 972
 Mr. Spring Rice  would not defend the general principle of Parliamentary grants for the support of paupers; but the grant had been made for some time, and he did not see that it would be fair to withdraw it at present, when a change in the law with respect to the poor in Ireland was in contemplation. It would be hardly fair to leave those aged and feeble paupers, who had been hitherto relieved by this grant, in a state of destitution, until some general change was made in the law relating to the poor.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that the returns and inquiries which had been made on the subject would lead to a different conclusion; but even if some slight increase of infanticide had been the result, that would not justify the Legislature in supporting such an institution by grants of public money. It had been placed beyond all doubt by the inquiries which had been made on the subject, that the institution had not answered its intended object. It had neither contributed to preserve physical life, nor to improve public morals; and if so, he did not see why the Legislature should continue
 967 l
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, he was now about to propose the Irish Estimates; and here he apprehended that he should have to meet the objections of two sets of antagonists—one complaining that he had carried reduction too far, and the other that he had not proceeded with it far enough. It was, however, gratifying to him to be able to state, that since he had been in office, he had effected a reduction in those estimates to the extent of 104,000 l Yes 966 l l l l l l
 Mr. Gillon  deeply regretted, that any Scotchman should have given utterance to
 978
 Mr. O'Reilly  said, that after the attacks which had been made on the Catholic clergy, he was sure, that the Irish people, who could not but apply to themselves the insulting and unjust aspersions cast on their spiritual instructors, would be glad to see the grant withdrawn for the present, and brought forward on another opportunity, with a view to having its merits fully discussed. He for one shared in all the sentiments entertained by the Catholic clergy of Ireland, and he asked the House to decide whether he was inclined to exterminate the Protestants? He protested against the imputation thrown out against the Roman Catholic clergy; and he declared the statement made by the noble Lord (Mandeville), that the Catholics were arrayed against all lawful authority, insulting and unfounded.
 Sir Edward Codrington  felt himself interested in the subject, and trusted he might be allowed to make a few observations. He hoped that no Amendment would be allowed to interfere with the benevolent object that his Majesty had in view in sending that Message down to the House. He recollected when the bill of fees was originally sent into him, on his being made a Military Grand Cross, he was quite shocked at seeing its amount. It did not, however, give him much pain, as he was determined never to pay one farthing of it; and had continued obstinate in his refusal. The officers in question used very gracious language, but it had no effect. He thought that the demanding fees for conferring a distinction of this nature was very like buying some-
 958 l l s d l s d l s l s d l s l s d
 Mr. Jervis  objected to the fees, or compensation for fees, being added to the burthens of the people, and the more so because the amount of that compensation had not yet been ascertained. He was of opinion, that instead of compensation being granted, it would be much cheaper to pay the fees upon any creations which might take place, and that when the individuals holding patent rights should die off, a new system should then be adopted.
 Sir Robert Peel  was of opinion, that all military and naval officers upon whom the Order of the Bath might be conferred for their services, ought to be exempted from the payment of any fees. He, at the same time, thought that, both on the principle of equity, as well as the uniform practice of the House, any officers of that Order who had any legal claims to fees or emoluments, should be indemnified for any loss arising from their abolition. He did not remember the precise terms of the Motion before the House, but if its design were to relieve meritorious officers from the payment of fees on receiving the distinction in question, and, at the same time, to indemnify those who held patent offices, he could not see any objection to its adoption. Of course, the legality of the claims to fees, &c., must be established; and he doubted whether the public departments could not make that and every similar inquiry, more efficiently than a Select Committee of the House itself. He rose, however, on the present occasion, for the purpose of noticing a suggestion thrown out by the hon. member for Mid-
 960
 Sir Samuel Whalley  supported the Amendment. He thought that when such ridiculous fees as that paid to the King's barber was exacted, it was tolerably clear that other fees stood on similar grounds. He was of opinion that inquiry was necessary, not only for the relief of the persons upon whom the distinction was conferred, but also in justice to his Majesty. He wished it, however, to be understood, that he did not contend that those who had possession of certain offices to which privileges were attached, might be deprived of them without compensation.
 Lord Clements  said, that after the very extraordinary speech which the House had just heard, it would be their bounden duty to make some arrangement which would take this grant out of the Estimates, and settle it in some other way, so as that Roman Catholics would be relieved from the grievance of having, year after year, on the introduction of this vote, to complain of misrepresentation and distortion of their opinions and intentions put forth by gentlemen who happened to differ in opinion from what, in Ireland, might be called the religion of the country. He little expected, on that evening, to have heard such a speech as that just uttered; but, as it might be a lesson to the Government to prevent the recurrence of such, he scarcely regretted that it had been uttered. Gentlemen from Scotland might talk of the gulf that existed between Protestantism and Catholicism; but when they remembered that the country for which this grant was proposed was almost entirely Catholic, the consideration should have the effect of lessening their zeal. Objection had been taken to the Catholic Priesthood; but if there were grounds for such objection, those who looked into the reason of things would find, that, perhaps, they might be found in the smallness of the grant given to the institution in question. If it were inure liberally supported, it would be reasonable to calculate that a class of candidates for the priesthood more eligible, it might be, than those who at present sought admission would be found; and the character of the Catholic priesthood would be exalted to its proper dignity.
 Viscount Howick  had never said, that the men had been punished more severely because they were preachers, than they otherwise would have been. He respected the Methodists, as he knew but for them it would have been impossible to have carried the Slavery question. He said, that they were Methodist preachers, merely to to show that they were not such ignorant men as they were represented to be, and that they knew well the nature of the matter they were engaged in.
 Viscount Howick  said, as the question would come regularly before the House in a few days when the heads of his Majesty's Government, Members of that House, would be present, and when they would doubtless defend the measures that had been adopted, it was not his intention at the present moment to go into a full discussion of the policy pursued by his Majesty's Government with respect to Trades' Unions, feeling that, in the subordinate situation he occupied, he had no right to do so; but he could not sit in that House and listen to what had fallen from the two hon. Members who had addressed it, without offering a very few remarks. The hon. member for Middlesex had stated very fairly the principle—he had stated, that he regretted that so mistaken an idea should be entertained by the labouring classes, that they could raise their wages by combination. The hon. Member had also said, that as long as they kept within the law, no punishment should take place. He concurred most cordially in that sentiment, thinking that Parliament did that which was no less politic than just, when it repealed those severe statutes against combinations which existed previous to 1825. He considered it the undoubted right of every man to determine for himself on what terms he could part with his labour; and it was not just to withhold from a number of persons, that which was lawful for any one individual. He was content to put the matter on the principles of the hon. Member opposite; but the House and the country must know, that the Unions had not confined themselves to combining to raise wages, but, with the most daring effrontery, they had endeavoured to usurp the rights of others, and had invaded, in the most gross and scandalous manner, the first principles of the rights of industry; they had attacked life and property, in order to prevent other
 941 942 943 944
 Lord Mandeville  was not aware, that he had charged the Catholics with being arrayed against all lawful authority; neither had he imputed to the Catholics a wish to exterminate the Protestants. All that he said was, that they must desire to exterminate the Protestant faith.
 Lord Mandeville  said, that the documents of the Roman Catholic Church were decidedly hostile to the existence of Protestantism. The House, if it granted this vote, placed itself in a dilemma, by its maintenance of heresy, for if it could not prove the Catholics heretics, Protestantism must acknowledge itself guilty of schism. From the first moment of his entering that House, he felt the necessity of opposing the grant then under consideration, on the ground that it would be inconsistent in a House, exclusive as that then was, to support a vote which granted money for the purpose of educating a priesthood, the duty of which was to circulate doctrines different from, and hostile to, those which the granters of the money believed to be the true ones. He could not now urge this line of argument, for the House had changed its character, and was no longer exclusively Protestant. It had been insisted that the priests educated at Maynooth exhibited an inclination more favourable to the British connection than those educated on the continent, but there lately occurred a case in Cork, where a priest educated at Maynooth gave but a bad specimen of the system pur-
 974
 Lord Sandon  bore testimony to the advantages which had resulted from the establishment of the emigration agent at Liverpool.
 Lord Althorp  said, that he had taken the opportunity, prior to entering into the ensuing discussion, to present the different petitions which had been committed to his care by several bodies of Dissenters, praying for relief from the peculiar burthens which had been imposed upon them, in order that the petition for redress, and the measures of relief, might come before the consideration of the House as nearly together as possible. He considered that
 1013 1014 1015 l. No no! l. l. l. l. l. l. 1016 1017 1018 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1019 l.
 Mr. Hume  said, that he could not but confess the disappointment which he felt in the proposal submitted to the House by the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He did not think that the country would feel satisfied with it. Nay, more, he thought that even those who supported the Established Church would not be pleased with the noble Lord's plan. The noble Lord appeared to him to have had the Bench of Bishops for advisers in drawing up his plan; for no layman could have ever proposed that the sum thus to be raised should be put under the control of the Commissioners for Building and Repairing Churches. He thought they had seen enough of that Commission. It had, by its acts, done more to shake the stability of the Church of England than almost any Commission which ever sat. The result of its operations, in almost all parishes, was, that it had created a strong opposition to Church-rates. He protested against continuing the establishment of this new clerical body, as altogether improper, impolitic, and unnecessary. The next question was, why this matter was
 1020 l. 1021 l., l. l. l. 1022 l.,
 Mr. Gisborne  thought, that the feeling as to the necessity of a Church Establishment for the propagation of religion, was most erroneous. They might as well propose a national medical establishment, and oblige every one to pay for its support. Whether sick or well, all would then be called on to pay the State Physician. If that was an erroneous principle, as regarded a medical establishment, he was prepared to show, that it was not more so than that on which they now supported a national Established Church. The question before the Committee now was merely one as to payment, and what they had to consider was, whether that payment was just or not? It was evident to every one, when the Government made a gift of the Church
 1023 1024 l. l.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that before entering upon the question, he wished first to understand clearly the nature of the noble Lord's proposition on one important point. In the Resolution, it did not appear whether the vote which the noble Lord recommended of 250,000 l. 1025 Hear, hear. 1026 l. 1027 d. 1028 1029
 Mr. Divett  said, that he believed, contrary to the remark of the hon. Baronet who had just taken his seat, that the evils of the existing system were much under-rated. As to the proportion of Dissenters to Churchmen, he would only say, that though nominally there were more Churchmen than Dissenters, yet a greater number of Dissenters than members of the Establishment attended divine worship. For his part, he thought it was most unjust to compel persons to contribute to the support of a Church from whose doctrines they dissented. He was not a Dissenter himself; but he was bound to say, (and he knew that he was speaking the sentiments of his constituents) that he could not agree to that part of the noble Lord's plan which went to provide the substitute. He admitted, that his noble friend evinced a desire to relieve the Dissenters, but his noble friend had failed in realizing his own wish. But he was quite convinced, that the Dissenters would feel themselves aggrieved by the small part of the Church-rates which the noble Lord had allowed to remain. The hon. Baronet who spoke last, understated the number of cases in which a successful resistance had been made to the levying of Church-rate, but taking the case upon his showing, was it not to be deplored that a contest of this nature should be continually going on between Dissenters and the Church? It was, in his opinion, much to be regretted, that in the whole matter of the Church-rates, there should be any thing of compulsion, and nothing of voluntary contribution. He was sure it would be far more advantageous to the Church, and more satisfactory to the great body of the people, if an opportunity were generally afforded them of doing something similar to that which he had recently witnessed in a country parish, where it was most gratifying to observe the manner in which the call made under the King's letter was responded to—he alluded to the recommendation on the subject of building additional churches. He regretted, that the proposition of the Government was such as to impose upon him the necessity of supporting the amend-
 1030
 Mr. Wilks  considered it quite a mistake to view the present as a question exclusively affecting the Protestant Dissenters; and he might be allowed to say, that the members of the Church themselves were deeply interested in the proper, equitable, and satisfactory settlement of that long-contested question. Moreover it was not a question between mere classes of religionists; it was one of great national importance, and should not be taken up on any narrow or limited ground: it was not only a matter of the highest moment in a national point of view, but in one of morals and religion; for what could be more destructive to the right moral and religious feeling of the people at large, than that the body of men from whom they were to derive spiritual consolation and instruction, were to stand towards the people in the light of tax-gatherers? He sincerely regretted, that a more liberal proposition had not been brought forward by his Majesty's Government—that some principle was not recognized, according to which Dissenters might be exempted from contributing to the expenses of a worship which they never attended, and the support of a Church whose doctrines they did not acknowledge. There was, as almost every hon. Member knew, the greatest exaggeration practised with regard to the members of the Established Church. He had means of knowing how the matter stood in the principality of Wales; and he could testify how indignant the feeling was with which the inhabitants there viewed the impost. No fewer than three-fourths of the inhabitants of Wales dissented from the Established Church; and, in the course of the present century, they had established not less than 1,560 places of public worship, every one of which was raised at their own expense, though they endured all the while the grievous burthen of maintaining a Church to which not only they
 1031 l. l., l., 1032 l., l. l. 1033 l. l. l. l., 1034 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that the King's Ministers found themselves placed in the painful and embarrassing situation of vindicating a measure assailed by a sort of double opposition, each opposing party at the same time entertaining views diametrically opposite; it would be therefore no easy task for him to shape his arguments so as to meet and answer both. He should begin by observing, that he did not hesitate to say, that the Motion of his noble friend was introduced with the view of affording to the Dissenters a measure of liberal and substantial relief, which no man was more ready than himself to acknowledge they were fairly and justly
 1035 1036 1037 l. l., l. l. l. l. l. 1038 1039
 Mr. Harvey : The right hon. Gentleman who has just addressed the House has made an appeal to our sympathy in alluding to the peculiar position in which the Administration, of which he forms so distinguished a member, might be placed, or rather in which it stands. He tells us, on the one hand, that Government have to contend with those, whom he rather insinuates than asserts to be the enemies of the Church; and, on the other hand, with those who are presumed to be the uncompromising advocates of the Church in the whole integrity of its power and resources, and that between these two evils the Government have at length proposed a measure, the result of much reflection, and of which they call on the House and the country to pronounce an opinion of absolute approval. It is the duty of every Member of this House, however painful it may be to him—and of all situations it is probably one of the most painful—that, with every disposition to support the general principles of the Government, he is sometimes placed in the position of appearing as its enemy, by the oft-times false position which the Government so frequently assumes—by making experiments to substitute small stratagems and smaller details for great and enlightened principles. The right hon. Gentleman has stated, that he, he emphatically says "he" is prepared to concede to the Protestant Dissenters all reasonable grounds of complaint. What is, let me ask; the ground of complaint of the Protestant Dissenters of England?—
 1040 l., 1041 1042 l. l. l., 1043 l. l. 1044 l. l. l. 1045 l. l. s. l. l. 1046 1047 1048
 Lord John Russell  said, he felt it incumbent on him to declare his opinions in opposition to those of the hon. and learned member for Colchester, and to the hon. member for Middlesex. They said, it would give them pleasure, if instead of opposing the measure brought forward by his Majesty's Government, they could have given it their support, which they might have been able to do had it been founded on some broad principle. There were, no doubt, some measures on which the hon. member for Colchester, and the members of his Majesty's Government might agree; yet he should be wanting in candour, if he did not state, that the reason why the hon. and learned Gentleman, and his hon. friend, were continually disappointed at the proceedings of Government, was this: there was a difference of principle between them. The wish of the latter was to preserve and reform; it never would be their object to destroy. The hon. member for Middlesex stated his difference at once. He did not think this a question simply affecting Church-rates. He did not disguise his views, but declared, that if the opinions of the people were prepared for such a change, he would at once bring forward a measure for the separation of the Church from the State.
 1049 1050 1051
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  wished, before he consented to the Motion, to know the amount of the Church property, and to ascertain if that were not sufficient to maintain the sacred edifices without having recourse to the general revenue of the country. If that inquiry had been made, and the property had been found deficient, he might not have objected to the measure; but, according to the Statute-book, the Church property ought first of all to provide for the maintenance of the fabric of the Church. He could not agree to the principle of the Motion. He would ask, was the Church-rate charged on the land? By the present measure they would give that to the proprietor of land, or whoever paid the rate to which he was no more entitled, by the argument of the hon. Baronet, the member for Oxford, than he was to tithes. The Government ought to take care that these rates fell on the property which bore them at present; but, instead of so doing, they were about to charge them on the revenue of the country; and they would thus be imposed, not on the people of England only, hut, also, on the people of Ireland. The latter had lately been relieved from the Church cess of their own country, and now they were to have imposed upon them a portion of the Church cess of England. In that there was great
 1052
 Mr. Gillon  protested against the measure as one of robbery and confiscation on the people, especially of Scotland and Ireland. He could not but characterize it as a contemptible juggle; while they had professed to relieve Ireland of Church-cess, they now called on her to contribute towards that of England. The plan of the noble Lord would impose a substantial tax on Scotland for the purpose of maintaining a dominant Church already gorged with wealth, revelling in the spoils of a former establishment, and supported by unwilling contributions exacted from overburthened and conscientious men, who disapproved of her doctrines, and could not submit to her discipline.
 Mr. Wynn  felt disposed to give his support to the resolution proposed by the noble Lord opposite; but at the same time he wished not to be understood as expressing any decided approbation of the ministerial plan. He reserved to himself the right of pronouncing an opinion upon it until he had an opportunity of examining its details when embodied in the shape of a Bill. He admitted, that the noble Lord had laid sufficient grounds for the House to entertain the consideration of the measure; and it was only by the previous adoption of a resolution, such as that now before the Committee, that the Bill could be laid before the House. He agreed with the noble Lord in thinking, that the disputes which had arisen on the subject of Church-rates, in different vestries, were likely, if allowed to continue, to prove prejudicial, not only to the peace of particular parishes, but to the general interests of religion. It was, indeed, said by his hon. friend, the member for the University of Oxford, that
 1053 l. l. 1054 1055
 Mr. Robinson  believed, that the ministerial proposition had been brought forward with a sincere desire to relieve the Dissenters from the grievances of which they justly complained; but he was afraid it would not be attended with that desirable effect. He admitted, that the new plan, as far as it went, was an improvement on the existing system, yet it could not be denied, that its chief effect would only be to make the Dissenters pay indirectly, though not to so great an extent, a tax to which they objected on principle, and which they now paid directly. He concurred with the noble Lord, the member for Devonshire, in thinking, that, for the general good of the Protestant interest throughout the country, the maintenance of the Established Church was desirable, and it was with the view of supporting the Establishment, that he wished to see the Dissenters relieved from every grievance. He should, therefore, give his vote in favour of the Amendment proposed by the hon. member for Middlesex, but not for the reasons which had induced that hon. Member to recommend its adoption to the House. If the House should decide, that Church-rates should be abolished, it did not follow, that some other substitute than that proposed by the noble Lord opposite might not be discovered. He objected to calling on the population of Scotland and Ireland, and many thousands of persons in England, to contribute to a rate towards which they at present paid nothing.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  thought the noble Lord's plan the least objectionable that could be proposed. It was not to be denied, that, at the present moment, there existed in the country a strong feeling of discontent against the Established Church; and he, therefore, felt it his duty, as a member of that Church, to assist its support, without infringing on the rights or offending the feelings of his Dissenting
 1056
 Mr. Wallace  entered his protest against the ministerial plan, which he said was an insidious attack on the privileges and rights of those who belonged to the religion of his country. He considered the admission made by the noble Lord the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the people would not pay for the support of the Church of England unless compelled,—though not very complimentary to the Established Church, as very valuable, inasmuch as it showed with what sort of feeling the Establishment was regarded by the inhabitants of the country. He was sure, that the noble Lord would be unable to carry his plan into execution, and he prophesied, that a general resistance would be manifested throughout England, Scotland and Ireland, to the collection of the tax which the noble Lord had proposed to levy.
 Mr. Baines  declared, that the Government plan would not be acceptable to the great portion of the Dissenting community, and believing, as he did, that the Ministers intended to give satisfaction to the Dis-
 1057
 Lord Althorp  said, that one of the main objects of the Government in bringing forward the present proposition was to give satisfaction to the Dissenters; and he confessed that the mode in which it had been received by those Dissenters who had seats in that House had greatly surprised him. The proposition which he had the honour to submit to the Committee had been treated as if it gave no relief to the Dissenter in point of principle; but he believed there was one class of Dissenters at least, who would not regard it in that light: he alluded to the Quakers. It was well known, that they would not on any account contribute towards defraying expenses incurred specifically for the maintenance of the army, and yet when the army was supported out of the general taxation of the country, he had never heard that they objected to contribute their share. He was well aware, that if Church-rates were converted into a charge on the general revenue of the country, the Dissenters must pay a certain proportion: but he always understood, that the principal grievance of which they complained consisted in being called on to pay money specifically intended for the support of the Established Church. He could not concur with those who said that the plan proposed by him would have the effect of increasing the burthens of the country. In his opinion it would have an entirely contrary effect. It was true, that 250,000 l. l. 1058 1059
 Mr. Hume , in explanation, denied that he had advocated the separation of the Church and State, or expressed any wish to have the Churches demolished. His argument was, that it did not become the House of Commons to apply the public revenue to maintain places of worship belonging to a Church possessing ample funds for that purpose.
 Mr. Stanley  admitted, that the hon. Member had not advocated the separation of Church and State at the present moment, but he had pretty significantly intimated what his views and intentions would be if he were able to carry them into effect. The hon. Member had observed, that the Church possessed ample means of meeting all its expenses. Now, he begged to observe that if the whole revenues of the Church were equally divided among the ministers of the Church, the income of each would not exceed 300 l.
 Mr. Hume  said, that all he had observed with respect to the separation of Church and State was, that the present was not the proper time to discuss that question. He intended to press his Amendment; and if it should not be agreed to, he should propose a resolution to the following effect—"that it would be inexpedient to take into consideration any proposition to provide means for the maintenance of the edifices belonging to the Established Church, until the amount of the funds belonging to that Church should be known and found to be inadequate to meet that and other charges."
 Colonel Evans  rose for the purpose of proposing an Amendment to the Bill. He objected to the mode in which the large addition was to be made to the constituency of the borough of Hertford. It was proposed to add a large agricultural district to the present borough; and he had heard no reason assigned which could justify such a mode of proceeding. He was convinced, that adding agricultural districts to boroughs would be found to be highly inconvenient. By the Reform Bill an arrangement was made as to the number of Members to be returned by the several classes of the community. They had in some instances made additions of the adjoining agricultural districts to boroughs; but the principle was objectionable. It had made a great change in the constituency of many boroughs, and, in point of fact, had given a great additional influence to the agricultural interest. It was proposed by the Bill to add the twelve adjoining parishes to the borough of Hertford; but eight of those parishes had no connection whatever with the borough, and their population was purely agricultural. If it were necessary to increase the constituency of that place, they might do so by adding a town constituency; but it would, in point of fact, be giving the complete control to the landed interest to carry the Bill in its present shape. He also found that there was no ground for supposing that they would be able to get anything like a good and independent 10 l. 1064
 Mr. Tennyson  said, that he had not heard anything in the original statement of the hon. member for Rochester on introducing that Bill, nor in what had since taken place in the House, to induce him to agree to make such a boundary for the borough of Hertford as was proposed in the Bill. In point of fact, such an addition would be a complete destruction of everything like independence in the borough. The freemen and 10 l. 1065 1066
 Sir Robert Peel  did not intend to support the Amendment of the gallant Colonel, but thought that some advantage might result if he proceeded to state the course he intended to pursue, and the nature of the Amendment he intended to propose. The House had better know, before they came to a decision on the present Amendment, that other propositions would be submitted to them with respect to that Bill. He particularly requested the attention of the House and of his Majesty's Government to the question now to be decided. His Majesty's Government did not, on former occasions, express any opinion on the judicial question connected with that case, because they did not wish to influence the question by the expression of their opinions, or by the exercise of their influence, but to leave the matter to the decision of the House. That state of things had ceased, and they were now called upon to decide on the general question, and he begged their attention to the statement he was about to make. He agreed in much that had been said by the gallant Colonel; and although he could not vote for the Motion of the gallant Officer, the gallant Officer might vote, with the greatest consistency, for the proposition which it was his intention to submit to the House. If his proposition went to exempt the guilty from punishment, there might be a strong objection to it; but he had no such intention. He was opposed to referring the matter to the consideration of another Committee, because, in point of fact, it would be postponing the matter to another Session, when probably the House would be engaged in other business of great importance, and
 1067 1068 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1069 l. l. 1070
 Mr. Walter  said, that having been a Member of the Committee, whose proceedings were so well known to the House, he felt it his duty to say a few words on the present occasion. With respect to the change of boundary, he had no particular objection to it, except that he thought it would not answer the intended object. It would present such a tortuous and disputable outline to the constituency, as could hardly ever be settled; and the constituency which would be excluded, consisting of persons who lived in the country, bore so very small a proportion to those in the towns, that it was not worth while to exclude them. He did not deny, however, that the principle against which the hon. Gentleman wished to legislate prevailed in too many boroughs. With respect to the Bill before the House, if its object had been to disfranchise the borough of Hertford altogether, he did not know that much could be said against it; as it was clear from the evidence that the corruption, though not universal, was so general as to render the influence of the untainted electors altogether unavailing. The object of the Bill was to render the constituency of Hertford less within the means of any individual to corrupt; and to give to the old independent and honourable electors, allies of the same character with themselves in the new constituency. He would not enter into the subtle and superfluous question whether the House was acting judicially or legislatively, but he knew what were the facts of
 1071 1072 l., l. 1073
 Lord Granville Somerset  could not help making a single observation, in answer to the remarks of the hon. member for Berkshire. The hon. Member had spoken of the treating at Hertford; but neither he himself, nor his friends in Berkshire, seemed, during the last election, to have been afflicted with empty stomachs. The hon. Member's observations on Hertford were much to the point; but the voters of that borough would be sufficiently punished for their corruption, even if the Amendment of his right hon. friend (Sir Robert Peel) were adopted, for by that four or five hundred of them would be disfranchised. That, however, was not the case with the constituents of the hon. member for Berkshire, not one of whom had been subjected to the slightest penalty. There was a Bill in its progress through the House, which had been introduced by the noble Paymaster of the Forces, the object of which was, to punish all the voters in boroughs who might be guilty of any sort of corruption. He (Lord Granville Somerset) was sorry that the provisions of that Bill did not extend to counties as well as to boroughs, in order that it might include the constituents of the hon. member for Berkshire, and other county constituencies, many of whom were as corrupt as any borough constituency in England, Scotland, or Ireland. He could not but think, that a county constituency which misbehaved ought to be subject to punishment as well as the constituency of a borough. The question before the House, at present, however, was, not whether there had been corruption in the borough of Hertford. The real question was, whether they should punish the innocent as well as the guilty in that borough. A Committee had sat on the subject, who reported to the House, that the general body of the freemen of Hertford were not, in any way, connected with the corruption which had taken place; yet now they were called on to punish those freemen, who, by the Report of the Committee of that House, were declared guiltless. He (Lord Granville Somerset) would willingly consent to the punishment of the guilty, but he would never consent to the punishment of those who had been acquitted by the Committee appointed to investigate the case. As the honesty of the general body of the electors was admitted, he hoped that the House would not allow them to suffer; and that,
 1074
 Mr. John Stanley  said, that the noble Lord had called on the House to pass judgment on the constituents of the hon. member for Berkshire, whom he had presumed to call guilty, though they had not been put upon their trial; yet he declined to punish the electors of Hertford, who had been proved to be guilty of the grossest corruption. All that he, and those who acted with him, wanted, was the punishment of the guilty,—the punishment of those who had been found guilty of bribery. He would ask the hon. member for Cambridge, whether they wished for the punishment of any others? The Bill went to punish the lower class of voters in Hertford: he knew not in which way it went to punish any others. It went to punish the dependents of a great aristocratical proprietor. The House was first called upon to act judicially, but now it was called upon to act legislatively, and to remove this borough from the domineering influence of a great landed proprietor. He would ask whether, under this Bill, the Marquess of Salisbury's voters would vote in favour of the county or the town? How were these dependents of the noble Marquess created? Was there no punishment, no slavery in their fourteen days' leases? Did not these dependents, up to the last moment of the Reform Bill, nay, after it, suffer with the greatest severity? Much had been said by the noble Lord about treating, but had they it not in evidence, that, in Hertford, the port wine was sent in casks, that the voters drank it out of quart pots, and that one man actually died of intoxication on his way home? After these orgies, the gipsies and bullies were brought in, and the whole party were drilled and marshalled by the fugleman of Lord Salisbury's corps. Was it not notorious that the noble Marquess took an active part at the election, in spite of the entry of a resolution in their Statute-book against the interference of Peers at elections? Would to God that that Resolution were erased from their Journals, rather than be made the laughing-stock of every electioneering Peer in the kingdom! Was it not notorious that, in spite of all this, the noble Marquess appeared at the election wearing the colours of his own candidates, with a convicted thief placed on one side of him and a returned felon on the other. It was true: it had been
 1075
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, that if the object of the hon. Member's speech was to cast imputations he had succeeded; but those imputations, which the hon. Member presumed to cast upon Lord Salisbury might, with equal justice, be directed against Mr. Thomas Duncombe, for he was equally guilty with the noble Lord. As to the Bill before them, what did it do? The first clause punished those guilty of corruption; and that clause he did not mean to oppose; but the second clause punished the innocent as well as the guilty, and it was to that clause he objected. By the second clause the whole of the 10 l. 1076
 Mr. Bernal  said, he really did not know what proposition they were entertaining, whether it was that enunciated by the hon. and gallant member for Westminster, or that suggested by the right hon. Baronet.
 Colonel Evans  said, that as he understood his Amendment would prevent the Bill from being carried through this Session he would not press it.
 Sir R. Peel  then moved the omission of the second clause, with a view to omit the remainder of the Bill.
 Colonel Evans  then moved—"That the boundary of the borough shall only comprehend the present borough of Hertford, together with the towns of Ware and Hoddesdon, and the intermediate tract bounded by the high roads connecting the latter towns with each other and with Hertford, including 100 yards exterior of those high roads throughout the whole length of the said roads."
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that, in presenting the Petition of 259 resident members of the University of Cambridge, he stood in a somewhat novel situation, in being called upon to present a petition, expressing what he believed to be the sentiments of that learned body, which he had the honour to represent, but proceeding from that body not in its corporate capacity. He deeply regretted the necessity which had given rise to the change which had taken place in the established practice of the University;
 1010 veto 1011 1012
 Mr. O'Connell  having been called by the Speaker, spoke to the following effect, "It happened to me, Sir, a few days ago, to be speaking to a Member in the lobby, when I was asked by another Member, who had been in conversation with him before I came up, when the question of the Repeal or the Union was to come on. I was about to give the required information, when the Gentleman went on to observe, "The Canadas are endeavouring to escape from us; America has escaped us; but Ireland shall not escape us." The hon. member for Wiltshire, too, who, I regret to find, is not now in his place, may recollect, that last year, when the Coercion Bill was brought before the House, a Member of this House, said, in the library, with something like an oath, that Ireland should not escape us. [ Cries of Oh! 1093 1094 1095 1096 1097 1098 1099 1100 1101 1102 1103 1104 1105 1106 1107 1108 Hear 1109 1110 "For modes of law let casuists contest, Those that are best administer'd are best." 1111 1112 de facto de jure de facto de jure 1113 1114 1115 1116 1117 1118 1119 1120 femme covert 1121 1122 l l. 1123 1124 s s 1125 1126 1127 1128 Rarus et anticus habitator in urbibus errat, Sect si non alia venturo fata Neroni invenire viam. 1129 1130 1131 l 1132 1133 l l 1134 l l l l l 1135 1136 l l l l l l l. l. l l. l l. l. 1137 
 
 Eng. Ire. 
 The balance of trade then appearing as 29 to 1 
 Current cash 12 to 1 
 Permanent Revenue 13 to 1 1138 l l l 1139 l. l l l l l l 1140 l l l. l 1141 l l l l 1142 l l l. l l s d 1143 l 1144 
 
 Population 202 Members. 
 Exports 100 — 
 Imports 93 — 
 Revenue 39 — 
 
 Population 202 
 Exports 100 
 Imports 93 
 Revenue 45 1145 Habeas Corpus gen darmérie 1146 post hoc propter hoc 1147 l l l l. l * † * † Hansard (new series) xi. p. 659. 1148 * * 1149 l l. l l l. l * * 1150 l. l l l l. l l 1151 l l l l l l 1152 1153 * 
 
 Imports. Exports. 
 1830 — £1,573,545 — £839,014 
 1832 — 1,491,036 — 635,909 
 1834 — 1,386,045 — 410,715 * 1154 
 
 Ships. Tonnage. Customs' Duties. 
 New-castle … 1,048 … 215,784 … 320,893 
 Liverpool … 806 … 158,596 … 3,594,344 1155 minor cir- 1156 cumspice. d 1157 1158
 Mr. James  presented a Petition, numerously signed, from the inhabitants of Carlisle and its vicinity. The exact number of signatures, he believed, was 2,100, praying for a repeal of the legislative union between Great Britain and Ireland,
 1091 1092
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor : No! No!
 Mr. Spring Rice : The hon. Gentleman says "No;" but at least he cannot deny, that the independence of Ireland, for which Grattan contended, had then been successfully asserted. If the hon. Gentleman denies this fact, he must seek more than the Repeal of the Union. Under the Constitution of 1782, the only bond between the two countries was the bond of the Crown, the two countries being governed under the authority of their independent legislatures. But how did this boasted experiment succeed, and what happened under this most excellent system? First, there was the affair of Portugal, which placed the two countries in the following strange and extraordinary position. War might have been declared against Portugal by the king of Ireland, while peace might have been maintained between Portugal and the king of England. The Irish House of Commons had taken proceedings to force a rupture with Portugal, at a period when there existed no grounds of collision between England and that country. The next question on which the weakness of the Constitution of 1782 was demonstrated, was the affair of the Regency. This the learned Member felt it expedient to pass over very lightly. What then occurred? The Parliament of Ireland determined upon one course in regard to the Regency, while the people of England determined upon another. The hon. Gentleman cannot deny the facts, and they cannot negative my inference. If the Parliament of Ireland were justified in selecting a Regent upon different principles from those adopted by the British Legislature, they might on the same grounds have been equally justified in selecting different persons for the office of Regent. The people of Ireland might thus have elected the Prince of Wales, and the people of England might have chosen the Duke of York, We should
 1183 1184 1185 1186 The Family of Jobs 1187 bonâ fide 1188 1189 1190 cadit questio 1191 ex necessitate non meus hic sermo 1192 1193 1194 1195 1196 1197 1198 1199 de non apparentibus et de non existentibus eadem est ratio 1200
 Several Hon. Members : Hear! Hear!
 Mr. Spring Rice : Hon. Gentlemen cheer; and I am aware, that these are the very same declarations which we hear repeated night after night by the learned member for Dublin; if the object be not as explicitly stated, the means are at least the same. Tone adopted those means to produce separation—the learned Member adopts them to accomplish the Repeal of the Union. But Mr. Tone goes on to say (and this also is in keeping with what
 1201
 Several Hon. Members : Hear! Hear!
 Mr. Spring Rice : I am not surprised at that cheer; the principles thus laid down by Wolfe Tone, resembling so closely the principles advanced in this House by the learned member for Dublin, and cheered by his political adherents. To carry the measure of Repeal, the learned Member continually recommends an union of all parties. Mr. Tone proclaims, that his mode of separating the countries was by producing a consolidation of all denominations and sects. I pray the House to recollect, that this combination of all classes in pursuit of one common object—the mere mention of which so strongly excites the approbation of the Hon. Gentlemen opposite—was called for before the Legislative Union; that it was directed as well against the supposed tyranny of the Irish Parliament, as against the connexion with Britain. The sensibility displayed by the cheers of the hon. Gentlemen opposite has, therefore, been premature, and has somewhat betrayed them. Is it not clear, that if the Union were to-morrow to be repealed, the complaints which Wolfe Tone made in 1791, and the agitation which he and his party excited, might again be renewed? The evils which Tone and his party denounced in 1791, could have no connexion with the Union, and might, therefore, exist after its Repeal, and the Protestants and Catholics might be again invited to join in one fraternal embrace, and to rid themselves of the evils of the connexion, and of the tyranny of the Throne. It is really curious to observe the close similarity between the arguments of the learned Member, and those of Mr. Tone:—'My object, (says the latter), was to convince the Dissenters, that they and the Catholics had but one common interest and one common enemy; that the depression and slavery in Ireland was produced and perpetuated by the divisions existing between them; and that, consequently, to assert the independence of their country, and their own individual liberties, it was necessary to forget all former feuds, to consolidate the entire strength of the nation, and to form, for the future, but one people.' 1202 1203 
 
 Committees. Commissioners. 
 1801 Committees.—On Orders respecting the Union—On Offices in Ireland, disqualifying persons from Parliament 2 
 1802 Committe—Linen Manufacture 1 
 Commissioners.—Accounts 1 
 1803 Committees.—State of the Poor—Irish Exchange 2 
 Commissioners—Port of Dublin 1 
 1805 Committee.—Grand Canal 1 
 1806 Commissioners.—Fees and Gratuties—Public Offices—Public Pavement—Accounts 4 
 1809 Commissioners.—Board of Education—Paving (Dublin)—Accounts 4 
 1810 Committees.—Bogs 1 
 Commissioners.—Bogs—Accounts 2 
 1811 Committes.—Bogs—Public Offices—Board of Education 3 
 Carried forward 10 12 1204 1205 
 
 Committees. Commissioners. 
 Brought up 10 12 
 Commissioners.—Brewers (Dublin)—Wexford Petition—Public Income and Expenditure 3 
 1812 Committees.—Cork Green-Coat Hospital—Grand Jury Presentment—Grand Canal Company 3 
 Commissioners.—Public Income—Public Offices—Accounts—Education 4 
 1813 Committees.—Bogs—Irish Currency—Madhouses 3 
 Commissioners.—Education—Public Offices—Inland Navigation—Accounts—Board of Education 5 
 1814 Committees.—Bogs—Grand Jury Presentments 2 
 Commissioners.—Royal Canal Company—Bogs—Public Offices—Accounts 4 
 1815 Committees.—Public Income and Expenditure—Grand Jury Presentments—Poor 3 
 Commissioners.—Education—Royal Canal Company—Accounts 3 
 1816 Committees.—Public Income—Grand Jury Presentments—Illicit Distillation 3 
 Commissioners—Education—Public Accounts—Inland Navigation 3 
 1817 Committees.—Lunatics 1 
 Commissioners.—Education—Courts of Justice 2 
 1818 Committees.—Fever Hospitals—Grand Jury Presentments 2 
 Commissioners.—Education—Auditing Accounts—Courts of Justice 3 
 1819 Commissioners.—Prisons—Education—Courts of Justice—Public Accounts 4 
 1820 Commissioners.—Courts of Justice—Education—House of Industry (Dublin)—Accounts 4 
 1821 Committees.—To consider Report of Commissioners on Courts of Justice 1 
 Commissioners.—Dunmore Harbour—Fisheries—Courts of Justice—Exchequer—Education 5 
 1822 Committees.—Dublin Local Taxation—Grand Jury Presentments—Limerick Local Taxation. 
 Commissioners.—Courts of Justice—Education—Fisheries 3 
 1823 Committees.—Dublin Local Taxation—To consider Reports of Courts of Justice—Labouring Poor 3 
 Commissioners.—Public Accounts—Education—Prisons—Fisheries—Employment of Poor 5 
 1824 Committees.—Dublin Local Taxation—Insurrection Act—Valuation of Land 3 
 Commissioners.—Revenue—Courts of Justice—Public Accounts—Fisheries—Public Records 5 
 1825 Committees.—Dublin Local Taxation—Linen Trade—State of Ireland—Petition of Ballinasloe relative to Roman Catholic Association 4 
 Commissioners.—Courts of Justice—Fisheries—Education—Revenue 4 
 1826 Committees.—Butter Trade—Market Tolls—Promissory Notes 3 
 Commissioners.—Revenue—Dunleary Harbour—Public Accounts—Fisheries—Roads and Bridges—Justice (2) 7 
 1827 Committees.—Grand Jury Presentments 1 
 Commissioners.—Accounts—Courts of Justice—Roads and Bridges—Prisons—Paying Board—Richmond Penitentiary—Fisheries—Schools and Middleton—Education 9 
 1828 Committees.—Education—Vagrants 2 
 Commissioners.—Public Accounts—Roads and Bridges—Courts of justice—Prisons—Fisheries—Education—Records 7 
 1829 Committees.—To consider Eighteenth Report of Judicial Inquiry—Kilrea Petition (forged signatures)—Miscellaneous Estimates 3 
 Commissioners.—Post Office Revenue—Public Accounts—Courts of Justice—Roads and Bridges—Prisons—Fisheries 6 
 1830 Committees.—On Nineteenth Report of Judicial Inquiry—Poor 2 
 Commissioners.—Roads and Bridges—Courts of Justice—Education—Records 4 
 1830–31 Commissioners.—Courts of Justice—Prisons—Roads and Bridges 3 
 1831–32 Committees.—Boundary Commission—Post Office Communication—Tithes—Turnpike Roads—State of Ireland 5 
 Commissioners.—Ecclesiastical Inquiry—Courts of Justice—Education—Public Accounts—Prisons 5 
 1833 Committees.—Derry Bridge—Dublin and Kingston Ship Canal—Corporations 3 
 Commissioners.—Accounts—Prisons—Public Works—Ecclesiastical Inquiry 4 
 Total 60 114 
 
 Total number of Reports of Select Committees 60 
 —of Commissioners 114 
 Total 174 1206 1207
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor : Hear! Hear!
 Mr. Spring Rice : Does the hon. Gentleman who cheers think, that the condition of Ireland was better than at the present day, when she was subsisting on corn imported from England, and when, according to Dean Swift, Ireland was dependent, for her supply of corn, every third or fourth year, on this country? Has she become poor and wretched because she has now the means of exporting a large surplus produce? If that opinion be entertained by the hon. Gentleman, and by those hon. Members who sit around him, I may indeed despair of
 1208 1209 l l
 Several Hon. Members :—Hear ! Hear!
 Mr. Spring Rice :—Gentlemen cheer at the mention of the Tithe Commutation Act, meaning, I presume, to suggest that Ireland has not derived any benefits from that measure; I entreat them, however, to bear one matter in mind—I am not called on to prove, that what has as yet been effected is perfect and complete, but that the state of the law, as regards tithes in Ireland, is now more favourable to Irish interests than it was before the Union. I refer to the Statutes as the proof, and as the cause of that improvement. I go back to the times of Mr. Grattan; and I compare that which has been carried into full effect, by the Imperial Parliament, with that which Mr. Grattan ineffectually attempted to induce the Irish Parliament to concur in enacting. The objects he then vainly sought for have since been fully accomplished, and the law is, now, not only better than it was before the Union, but it is infinitely better than our warmest patriots at that time thought it could be made. If Gentlemen doubt, let them compare the present law with the preamble of Grattan's Bill of 1789. That preamble runs in the following words:—'Whereas, it is expedient to relieve the people of this country from the hardships to which they are now exposed by reason of uncertain payments and demands on account of tithes and small dues, in order to ascertain and commute both.' 1210 1211 l l l l
 Several Hon. Members : Hear, hear!
 Mr. Spring Rice : Hon. Gentlemen cheer; but I am stating no novelty; I am stating facts. It is my duty to contrast the time before the Union with the time that has succeeded it. I wish to contrast what was done by the Irish Parliament, with respect to education, with what has since been done by the Imperial Parliament. On the 6th of April, 1786, Mr. Secretary Orde moved, in the Irish House of Commons—"That the national foundation of one or more public schools for facilitating and extending to the youth of this kingdom the means of good education would be of great public utility." This was adopted, but no grant of money followed. How different has been the case with the Imperial Parliament. When any vote of that kind has been passed, a grant of money to promote the desired object has followed as a matter of course. Mr. Secretary Orde tried the thing the next year, and on that occasion, he stated:—"That education, at least, so far as respects the lower classes of the community, is in so deplorable a condition, that it may be truly said, for lack of knowledge the land perished.'" Notwithstanding this statement, nothing was effectually done by
 1214 
 
 EDUCATION.—SCHOOLS UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE NEW BOARD. 
 Grants made to Schools in operation £789 
 Grant to Schools, whose connexion with the Commissioners has ceased 52 
 Further Schools in progress 199 
 1040 
 Scholars in Schools now in operation 107,042 
 Scholars in Schools now in progress 36,804 
 143,846 1215 1216 l 1217 l l 1218 1219 l s 
 
 Difference of Taxation on Articles subject to Excise Duty in Great Britain and Ireland 
 Excess of Taxes paid in Great Britain since 1800, upon articles subject to Duty in both Countries, above the amount which would have been paid had the rates in Great Britain been the same as in Ireland, viz. Excise. Differences. 
 Auctions £1,603,640 To July 5, 1815, when the rate was assimilated. 
 Glass Bottles 2,390,366 To January 5, 1825, when the rates were assimilated. 
 Hides and Skins (Estimate) 3,869,611 To January 5, 1825, when the rates were assimilated. 1220 
 
 Assessed, Land, and Property Tares borne exclusively by Great Britain 
 Land Tax £43,497,297 
 Income Tax 9,613,991 
 Aid and Contribution 67,892 
 Property Tax 145,833,019 
 1 s d s 2,094,204 
 £201,106,403 1221 
 
 Licenses The rates are so numerous and have so frequently varied, that it is not practicable to form any estimate with respect to this duty. 
 Malt 29,251,946 To July 5, 1815, when the rate was assimilated. 
 Paper 627,165 To January 5, 1826, when the rate was assimilated. 
 Spirits 42,897,695 In England, to Jan. 5, 1834; in Scotland, to Oct. 10, 1823, at which period the rates in that country were assimilated with those in Ireland. 
 Salt 28,043,118 
 Vinegar 726,624 To January 5, 1826, when the rate was assimilated. 
 £109,410,165 
 Total Excess or Difference of Taxation in Great Britain. 321,346,642 
 
 Difference of Taxation between Great Britain and Ireland 
 Customs £21,127,662 
 Excise 45,707,941 
 Stamps 9,565,000 
 Taxes 14,847,483 
 Total £91,248,086 
 Excess of Taxation levied in Great Britain by reason of the difference of Rates 
 Customs £130,065,000 
 Excise 321,346,642 
 Stamps 86,638,000 
 Taxes 80,237,406 
 Total £618,287,048 
 Taxes levied in Great Britain exclusively 
 Excise £211,936,477 
 Stamps 20,000,000 
 Taxes 246,239,947 
 Total £478,176,424 l 1222 1223 l 
 
 Howth … … … £345,194 
 Kingstown … … … 304,335 
 Donaghadee … … … 132,672 
 Port Patrick … … … 125,379 1224 
 
 Dunmore … … … 79,175 
 Hobbs Point … … … 23,422 
 Total, 1,010,177 l 
 
 From Jan., 1801, to Jan. 1817. From Jan., 1817, to Jan. 1833. Totals. 
 £ £ £ 
 Grants to Charitable and Literary Institutions 1,995,128 2,230,622 4,225,750 
 Encouragement of Manufactures and Agriculture 868,174 472,247 1,340,421 
 Public Works and employment of Poor 1,535,336 1,536,824 3,072,160 
 4,398,638 4,239,693 8,638,331 l l 1225 l 
 
 £ s d 
 Application for grants 39,249 0 8 
 Application for loans 872,699 4 1 
 911,948 4 9 
 £ s d 
 There are in operation,—grants, 27,595 11 0 
 There are in operation,—loans, 248,822 3 8 
 276,417 14 8 1226 In my last Report, laid before Parliament in the month of June, 1831, I had the pleasure to describe the great improvement which had then taken place in the moral habits and industry of the inhabitants of the mountain country, which is mainly attributable to the opening of these new roads. In the year 1822, the district was the focus of disturbance and bloodshed; in 1831, it presented an example of peace and prosperity; and I have now the gratification to state, that it still maintains the same character, and that each year new enclosures are made, and large tracts of hitherto unprofitable land are brought into a state of cultivation. Previously to the commencement of the roads, in the month of October, 1832, the Crown estate may he said to have been inaccessible to wheel carriages; and, in consequence, no lands were in cultivation beyond what were absolutely necessary to supply the population with potatoes and a small quantity of oats, the chief part of which must have been ground in quernes or hand-mills, there being no mill accessible excepting by back-roads on horses. As might be expected under such circumstances, the land remained nearly in a state of nature, for the farming system of the estate, as well as that of the whole of the surrounding country, did not extend to draining for the improvement of pasture or meadow land. The only difficulty I anticipate as likely to retard the rapid progress of the proposed improvement, is the want of a sufficient number of labourers; for, notwithstanding the great outcry which is made respecting the poverty and destitution of our peasantry from want of employment, I have found that our active operations are confined to about four months and a-half in the year,—namely, to the months of February and April in the spring, and between the 1st of July and the 15th of September in the summer. During the remaining part of the year the peasantry find abundant occupation in agricultural employment, excepting, perhaps, in the month of January; and unless I were to raise the wages above the usual prices of the country, and thereby injure the farmer, I could not force the works excepting at those
 1227 1228 l
 Mr. Ruthven : Hear! hear!
 Mr. Spring Rice : The hon. Member assents on behalf of his absent colleague. I shall state how the fact really stands, in order to enable the House to judge how far this mortgage had been created in 1817, or injustice done. If I have not the advantage of having the learned Member present, at least I can address
 1229 l l l l l 
 
 Interest and Management of Irish Debt paid from the Revenue of Ireland 
 Payable in Great Britain. Payable in Ireland. 
 £ £ 
 In the year ending 5th January 1815 2,328,802 1,131,644 
 Before the consolidation 1816 2,621,814 1,088,009 
 1817 3,002,911 1,086,403 
 7,953,527 3,305,756 1230 
 
 After the consolidation 1818 1,003,600 
 1819 643,572 
 1820 1,026,650 
 2,673,822 
 
 In first period 11,259,283 
 In second period 2,673,822 
 The difference borne by England, inconsequence of the consolidation. 8,585,461 l l l l
 Mr. Sheil .—I rather think—
 Mr. Spring Rice .—The hon. and learned Gentleman may think otherwise. If the hon. and learned Gentleman, however, will have the kindness not to interfere with my figures of arithmetic, I promise to leave him in undisturbed possession of his figures of speech. I shall be very happy, however, to place these calculations in his hands, if he thinks he shall be able to detect any error in them. I repeat it, that prior to 1817, Ireland had to pay the interest of the entire debt contracted in both countries; she was afterwards relieved from this obligation, and no more than the surplus of income over expenditure became applicable to the interest of debt. It is perfectly true, that by this arrangement, all the revenue and all the expenditure became one joint amount; but the effect of this Act has been to burthen Great Britain, and to exonerate Ireland. 1231 
 
 Year 1814. 
 Income Expenditure. 
 Income … £5,287,581 Expenditure … £7,922,348 
 From the British Exchequer … 117,194 Remitted to England … 2,466,545 
 £5,404,775 
 Deficiency of Income … 4,984,118 … 
 £10,388,893 £10,388,893 
 Year 1815. 
 Income … £5,467,942 Expenditure … 7,819,558 
 From the British Exchequer … 98,249 Remitted to England … 6,107,986 
 £5,566,191 
 Deficiency of Income … 8,361,353 
 £13,927,544 £13,927,544 
 Year 1816. 
 Income … £4,394,630 Expenditure … £7,677,649 
 From the British Exchequer … 166,722 Remitted to England … 1,184,009 
 £4,561,352 
 Deficiency of Income … 4,300,306 
 £8,861,658 £8,861,658 
 Year 1817. 
 Income … £4,384,816 Expenditure … £4,180,364 
 From the British Exchequer … 216,923 Remitted to British Exchequer … 25,768 
 £4,206,132 
 Surplus … 395,607 
 £4,601,739 £4,601,739 
 
 Year 1818. 
 Income … £4,577,286 Expenditure … 3,278,164 
 Surplus … 1,299,122 
 £4,577,286 
 Year 1819. 
 Income … £4,250,980 Expenditure … £3,565,193 
 Surplus … 685,787 
 £4,250,980 l l 1232 l 1233 l 1234 
 
 Trade and Navigation of Ireland 
 The total amount of official value of the Exports of Ireland, for fourteen years immediately preceding the Union, was £64,861,000 
 For the fourteen years subsequent 80,316,000 
 Increase in the last fourteen years 15,455,000 
 The total value of Imports, in the first period, was 59,623,000 
 In the latter period 92,971,000 
 Increase in the last fourteen years 33,348,000 
 The number of ships which entered inwards in the fourteen years, including their repeated voyages: 
 To 1800, was 102,600 
 To 1815, was 125,000 
 Increase 22,400 
 Their tonnage was, viz., 
 Fourteen years to 1800 8,960,082 
 Fourteen years to 1815 11,579,558 
 Increase 2,619,476 1235 l l l
 Mr. Henry Grattan :—Name
! Name!
 Mr. Spring Rice :—The hon. Gentleman asks me to name.—He must excuse me.—I will tell him why I do not choose to name. I am compelled to explain, because, in withholding the name of my correspondent without an explanation, I may hereafter be taunted with having acted upon anonymous authority. I do not choose to name my correspondents, because I do not choose to compromise them, or expose them to virulent attack.
 Mr. Henry Grattan :—I hope that the right hon. Gentleman does not attribute such intentions to me.
 Mr. Spring Rice :—I think I know my hon. friend too well for him to suppose that I could attribute anything of the kind to him. But I repeat it, that I will not name my authority, and I repeat, that I am compelled to state the reason why I refuse to do so, or otherwise, I shall be met by a denial of the authority of an anonymous communication. The House should know, that this question of Repeal is discussed with comparative moderation on this side of the water; but a very different tone is taken at the other. Every man who ventures in this House or out of it, to express a free opinion, is denounced. I myself, humble an individual as I am, and anxious as I have ever felt to avoid the occasions of offence, I have been denounced before large bodies in Ireland for my conduct and opinions. I do not complain of this—I rely on my general conduct as a defence; but I must regret when charges are preferred against me, that those charges should not be brought forward in my presence, when I can answer for myself, rather than in my absence, and before an excited audience, who are told that a bad Irishman is the worst of all bad men, and that the individual who has the honour of addressing you, is the worst of all bad Irishmen,—and further, that there has been no chance of favour or justice at the Treasury for any person connected with Ireland, or with Irish interests, since I have had the honour of being a public servant. I mention this, I can assure the House, not by way of complaint, but as illustrative of the reason why I do not name my authority in the present instance. They would be exposed to similar attacks, and to the same misrepresentations. I differ from the hon. Gentlemen opposite, to a very great extent; but I trust that I never shall on that account act unjustly or uncandidly towards them. But when I find it stated, that "the enemies to Repeal stand be-
 1256
 Mr. Henry Grattan :—Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman will state the facts which the letters contain, in continuation of what he read respecting the number of those engaged in the woollen manufacture?
 Mr. Spring Rice :—I am ready to continue my letter— 1257 s l s s l l s 1258
 Mr. T. Wallace  (across the House):—Dr. Doyle is dead.
 Mr. Spring Rice :—Sir, I lament to hear
 1259 l l 1260 Dublin, 20th April, 1834. The decline of manufactures in Dublin was not the consequence of the Union, and it would have occurred had the Union never been carried. It was the consequence, natural and inevitable, of the combination of the workmen, and of that combination exclusively. This position admits of proof; for, in one instance, the combination was put down, and the trade, in that instance, was sustained; this was in calico pinning. In 1817 the employers succeeded in crushing combination; they resolutely discharged their refractory hands, took on and educated others, employed women and boys to do the work which men only had heretofore ingrossed; and that trade has thenceforward been at no time, when equal capital, economy, and energy were devoted to it, worse circumstanced in Ireland than in England. In every other department combination succeeded, and, save in a few solitary instances, the manufacture was lost. If the Union were repealed to-morrow, and a code of protecting duties enacted, every farthing of the burden thus levied on the community would he exacted by the rapacity of the workmen, to be expended in drunkenness, or in the expenses of a combination founded on injustice, and sustained by the most frightful outrages,—by cold-blooded murder, and noon-day assassination. l l 1261 I feel considerable confidence in stating my opinion, that the present condition of the trade is more wholesome and satisfactory than at any former period within the bounds of my experience. Great and important changes have resulted from the abandonment of the system of bounties on exports, from the improvement in machinery, and from the application of more extended capital; all of which have, however, tended to expel the smaller manufacturers, dealers, and bleachers, and to diminish profits; but they have secured to the consumer a more perfect and regularly manufactured fabric, and at a vastly cheaper rate; and they have enabled us to see more clearly our capabilities of carrying on the manufacture in competition with the linen manufactures of the Continent. The result of the whole is satisfactory. We are now certain that we can manufacture almost every description of linen, except lace and fine cambric, as cheap and as well, perhaps cheaper and better, than any other country. The improvements in bleaching, also, having been placed on a more secure basis by science and experience, have contributed to raise the character of our goods, and I feel confident those causes will continue further to operate in advancing the character of Irish linens. The bounties on export, though so long regarded as the only support of our manufacture of coarse fabrics, encouraged the production of extremely low and worthless articles, on the value of which the bounty became a handsome profit; and such goods were, of course, despised when brought into comparison with those of the Continent in foreign markets. A better description is now made for export, and the character of the Irish manufacture is advancing. The machinery for spinning yarn has been improved to a degree that has outrun the most sanguine expectations. 1262 The extension of spinning-mills is now most rapid. We have had several small mills for many years, and for the last three or four, one very large one, all of which have prospered; and so many are now starting up in every quarter, that there is much danger of the demand being overrun by the supply which may soon be expected. The spinning by machinery has also tended to encourage the application of large capital to the manufacturer. I could not furnish you with a correct comparative statement of the relative state of manufactures previous to 1800, as most of the mills at that time were on a small scale, and so imperfect in machinery that they had almost ceased to work: but this I can safely say, and in this opinion I am supported by Mr. Stevenson and other intelligent gentlemen, that one single concern would now produce more cotton-yarn than all the mills in the north of Ireland produced previous to 1800. You will observe that a number of mills for spinning linen-yarn have lately been erected; and whilst the linen trade is evidently decreasing, this new branch of trade seems likely to till its place, with much benefit to the country, as, this being the seat of the linen-trade, it affords a ready sale for yarn; and as the cultivation of flax has always been considerable, the spinners are likely to have a good supply of the material, and the farmers a fair price for their produce. At present, four of our most extensive printing concerns are employed printing for the Manchester market, thus coping with the English printer at his own door. I am clearly of opinion that it was the protecting duties that retarded our advancement in the improvement of our manufactures, by preventing that free and fair competition, without which there can be no improvement. For example, if we are protected by a duty of 10 per cent, our prices must rise to that extent, or the manufacturers are not benefited by it; thus, by increasing the price of our goods, we effectually shut ourselves out of all markets but our own; and in order to secure a home trade, we shut ourselves out from all the world beside; yet a return to this very system is one of the advantages promised us by an Irish legislature. It was difficult to procure a sufficient number of weavers, or even common labourers; indeed, it is a great satisfaction to be enabled to state, that at no period have the people here been so generally employed, and so comfortably off; as, in addition to constant employment, they have provisions at a reasonable rate. A great increase and improvement has taken
 1263
 Mr. Ruthven :—It will never be repaid.
 Mr. Spring Rice :—If that be true, my argument becomes the stronger. But it is further said, that we inflict a deep injury on Ireland by reducing offices, and thus diminishing her expenditure; and it was brought as a charge against us by the learned Gentleman, that we had reduced the establishments of the public offices in Dublin, and the salary of the Lord-lieutenant. It was said, that Ireland had a just right to complain of this, but can Irish Gentlemen come down here and seriously maintain the doctrine, that we are to keep up establishments for establishments' sake,—not for the purpose of carrying on the public business, but with a view, by public expenditure, to benefit any particular section of the empire. This argument is, indeed, preposterous and absurd. I know that the principle against which I am contending was once maintained by Sir Walter Scott, under the character of "Malachi Malagrowther;" but even the wit and ability of that most eminent man could not reconcile this doctrine to the principles of common sense. 1271 1272 l l l 1273 1274 The quality of agricultural produce has improved, and the quantity has increased: the description of stock in husbandry has improved since the increased intercourse with England,—the Hereford, Ayrshire, and Leicester breeds being brought over. Among the better class of farmers very great improvement has taken place, and the number of slated houses is increasing very considerably; the repeal of the Union duties has produced a great cheapness of calico, and dress of that kind; and, in country villages, there is a much greater number of bakers than a few years ago. The peasantry acquire information and good habits by their intercourse with England, the fruits of which are becoming more and more manifested in Ireland.— Musgrave, Waterford The habits of the peasantry, their clothing, and their houses, are all improving. In every quarter, in every corner of Ireland, there are perceivable evidences of growing, and rapidly growing, prosperity.— Livingstone, Sligo The clothing, furniture, and comforts of the fisherman have improved decidedly. The progress of improvement in Ireland, moral and practical, has been, during the last ten years, exceedingly rapid. Wherever the coast guard establishment has been fixed, the most obvious improvement has taken place in the neighbourhood; the example which those men have shown being productive of most beneficial consequences.— Barry, Cork There is rather a tendency to increase the rate of wages than otherwise. The labourers can now purchase as much provisions for 6 s s Mullins, Dublin The state of the peasantry has improved very rapidly of late years; the country has greatly altered for the better; the peasantry are better clothed, and in every way seem to be more comfortable, and their houses are improving; agriculture has improved—the mode of ploughing, the description of carts, and other farming implements.— Mahoney The Irish reapers no longer come in the tattered clothes they formerly appeared in; they are ashamed of their rags, and are apparently a different class of persons.— Williams Ireland is becoming, from day to day, more prosperous; capital is spreading throughout Ireland; and, in proportion as it spreads, so will the general state of all classes be improved.— Blake The consumption of wheaten bread has considerably augmented.— Greer 1275 A very great improvement has taken place in all respects during the last twenty-two years, in the habits of cleanliness, and order and regularity, in their clothing, and sense of propriety in all respects; I conceive in their moral character and conduct altogether, the improvement has been very striking; I think the improvement of Ireland has been more rapid than any improvement I ever saw in England in any large track of country.— Wiggins The foundations of her prosperity are laid, and time will complete the structure.— Roe 
 
 An Account of Stock transferred to and from England and Ireland up to 5th Jan 
 CAPITAL. Annual Interest arising thereon, and Long Annuity. 
 £ £ 
 Capital created in Ireland by Stock transferred from England 23,335,378 810,129 
 Capital transferred from Ireland to England 7,324,429 247,809 
 16,010,949 562,320 l l l l 1276 l l 
 
 Years. Amount of Property. Average. 
 £ £ 
 1819 3,023,654 2,814,816 
 1820 2,634,864 
 1821 2,795,929 
 1822 2,679,144 2,975,440 
 1823 3,491,426 
 1824 2,755,750 
 1825 2,985,141 3,119,247 
 1826 3,477,228 
 1827 2,895,372 
 1828 3,593,257 3,623,206 
 1829 4,015,609 
 1830 3,268,751 
 1831 3,772,897 3,612,612 
 1832 3,452,327 
 44,833,359 l l 
 
 Account, showing the total Amount of Sums paid in and drawn out of Savings Banks in Ireland, in the Years ended th January and so far as the said Sums apply to the Accounts between the Trustees of those Institutions and the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt 
 IRELAND. Principal Sums paid in Principal Sums drawn out by Trustees. 
 In the Year ended £ s d £ s d 
 5th January, 1831 240,401 6 2 251,912 16 10 
 5th January, 1832 288,075 17 11 316,819 0 0 
 5th January, 1833 272,193 0 0 193,467 13 1 
 5th January, 1834 349,521 8 9 252,576 5 0 1277 
 
 Produce of the Duty on Wrought Plate 
 Ireland. Great Britain. 
 £ £ 
 Average of the three years, 1800, 1801, and 1802 1,772 47,607 
 Average of 1815, 1816, and 1817, being the period within which the produce of the duty was smallest in Ireland since the first period 2,926 75,400 
 Increase 1,154 27,793 
 Increase per cent 65 58 
 Average of 1827, 1828, and 1829, being the period within which the produce of the duty was greatest in Ireland 5,264 86,916 
 Increase compared with 1800, 1801, and 1802 3,492 39,309 
 Increase per cent 197 82 
 Average of the last three years, 1831, 1832, and 1833 3,825 64,629 
 Increase compared with 1800, 1801, and 1802 2,053 17,022 
 Increase per cent 116 36 1278 l 
 
 Roman Catholic Chapels built in Dublin since the Union 
 Anne-street Gardiners-street 
 Essex-quay — 
 Marlborough-street Grange Gorman 
 Townsend-street Rathmines 
 Francis-street Booterstown 
 Aungier-street 
 
 Tonnage of Commodities carried on the Grand Canal, Royal Canal, and the Barrow 
 Tons. 
 Grand Canal.—Average of 1821, 1822, and 1823 140,236 
 Average of 1831, 1832, and 1833 227,169 
 Increase 86,933 
 Increase per cent 62 
 Royal Canal.—Average of 1821, 1822, and 1823 88,190 
 Average of 1831, 1832, and 1833 141,973 
 Increase 53,783 
 Increase per cent 61 
 The Barrow.—Average of 1821, 1822, and 1823 23,770 
 Tonnage down—Average of 1831, 1832, and 1833 35,487 
 Increase 11,717 
 Increase per cent 49 
 Tonnage up.—Average of 1821, 1822, and 1823 19,478 
 Average of 1831, 1832, and 1833 30,558 
 Increase 11,079 
 Increase per cent 56 1279 1280
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  and other  Hon. Members:
 Mr. Spring Rice : Am I to be told by that cheer, that the connexion of the two countries is to be maintained?
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  and other  Hon. Members
 Mr. Spring Rice : Ay; but I ask Gentlemen, do they believe that the connexion could be preserved for one twelvemonth after the Repeal of the Legislative Union? The experiment failed in Ireland in the year 1782,—it failed in the discussions relating to Portugal,—it failed on the Regency Act,—it failed at the period of collision with the Volunteers.—it failed in Scotland, at the time the Act of Security was passed. Do Gentlemen, then, believe, that an experiment inconsistent with all the general principles of government,—in-consistent with past experience,—can succeed in Ireland, and in Ireland only? Sir, I maintain that, if the Repeal of the Union were carried, the connexion between the two countries is broken: I maintain, that to Repeal would succeed a fierce democratic Republic, which, however some Gentlemen may regard as a blessing, I, as the attached subject of the constitutional Monarchy, should deplore as one of the greatest of evils. Separation, in fact, is aimed at.
 An Hon. Member : No!
 Mr. Spring Rice : What, then, meant the beginning of the speech we heard last night? What meant the references to the United States of America? Why do we hear of Bolivar? What is the Order of Liberators? What was meant by the following sentence:—"I now approach the Atlantic, and I feel the fresh breezes that come from a country of freedom?" What is the object of a declamation like the following:—"The emancipated convicts of Botany Bay have a Parliament of their own; we have none, and we are 8,000,000. The slave-drivers in the West-Indies, and the fishermen of Newfoundland, have domestic Legislatures; we are without one, and we are 8,000,000. The United States of North America, the western boundary of Ireland, threw off the British yoke, and gained freedom by the sword; they were 3,000,000, and we are 8,000,000?" What means, also the late appeal to the "spirit of democratic liberty?" 1282
 Several Hon. Members : Adjourn! adjourn!
 Mr. Spring Rice : I have to make ten thousand apologies to the House; but I have already stated the substance of the Amendment. It is to the following effect:— 1283 * * "And whereas the said Ordinance prescribes to the people a course of conduct in direct violation of their duty as citizens, contrary to the laws of their country, and having for its object the destruction of the Union. "To preserve this bond of our political existence from destruction, and justify the confidence my fellow-citizens have reposed in me, I, Andrew Jackson, President of the United States, have thought proper to issue this, my Proclamation, declaring the course which duty still require me to pursue, and, appealing to the understanding and patriotism of the people, warn them of the consequences that must inevitably result from the observance of the dictates of the Convention. "Your pride was roused by the assertion, that a submission to those laws was a state of vassalage, and that resistance to them was equal in patriotic merit to the opposition our fathers offered to the oppressive laws of Great Britain. You were told, that this opposition might be peaceably—might be constitutionally made; that you might enjoy all the advantages of the Union, and bear none of its hurthens,—eloquent appeals to your passions, to state pride,—to your native courage,—to your sense of real injury,—were used to prepare you for the period when the mask which concealed the hideous features of disunion should be taken off. It fell, and you were made to
 1284 "They are unsafe guides in the perilous path they urge you to tread. Ponder well on this circumstance, and you will know how to appreciate the exaggerated language they address to you. They are not champions of liberty, emulating the fame of our revolutionary fathers; nor are you an oppressed people, contending, as they repeat to you, against worse than colonial vassalage. You are free members of a flourishing and happy Union; there is no settled design to oppress you. "You have, indeed, felt the unequal operation of laws which may have been unwisely, not unconstitutionally, passed; but that inequality must necessarily be removed. At the very moment, when you were madly urged on to the unfortunate course you have begun, a chance in public opinion had commenced. "The Government cannot accede to the mad project of disunion, of which you would be the first victims. Its first magistrate cannot, if he would, avoid the performance of his duty. The consequences must be fearful for you, distressing to your fellow-citizens here, and to the friends of good government throughout the world,"— Note by Mr. Rice
 The Marquess of Chandos  supported the prayer of the petition, and took the opportunity of asking the noble Lord (the Under Secretary of State) whether it was the intention of Government to take any steps with reference to the Sale of Beer Act—a measure, in his opinion, which would be productive of ruin to the country?
 Mr. John Stanley  regretted, that they must not expect any assistance from the Government on this subject. As there were many difficulties in the way of any alteration of this law, he, for one, would be willing to join any Member in proposing that it be entirely repealed.
 Colonel Williams  said, that the beer-shops had become essentially tippling-houses; they afforded no entertainment to travellers; they sold nothing but beer, which the labourer might drink as long as he pleased, but could get nothing to eat. The Beer-act was the  coup de grace
 Mr. Hill  could not agree with hon. Members who spoke against the Bill, as it appeared to him that there was nothing worse in legislation than legislating backward and forward upon a subject that bore so materially and vitally upon the habits of the people. It was not the sale of the Beer Act only; there were many causes that had produced the present state of the poor, among them the taking away of common rights, enclosing lands, stopping foot paths, and a variety of measures interfering with them in every way, so that they had no other resource for amusement, and dissipating idle thoughts, than tippling.
 Colonel Evans  was glad that the Government did not intend to interfere with the provisions of this Bill, but rather to wait to see the effects of the Poor—laws Amendment Bill, now in progress through Parliament. As to the Poor-laws, he believed that they had been worse administered in the county from which the petition came than any other part of England, with one exception.
 Major Beauclerk  thought that the only remedy upon the subject was, giving an opportunity to the poor man to brew his own beer, and that would be by repealing the Malt-duty.
 Mr. Rotch  could not allow the hon.
 1163
 Mr. Goring  said, that the proprietors of beer-houses were competing, one with the other, who should allow the greatest enormity of intemperance, and the greatest irregularity, in his house.
 Mr. Wilks  said, he had the greatest possible respect for those who objected to the measure in question, but, at the same time, he was afraid that much of that opposition arose from an anxiety on the part of the great brewers to get back a monopoly of beer, and he felt sure, that if there were one thing which the Magistracy ought to avoid more than another, it was the possession of those suspicious privileges which before gave rise to many unpleasant remarks which would be renewed if no means were adopted to prevent the monopoly of the brewers. He had learned from various parts of the country, that the majority of persons keeping beer-shops brewed their own beer, and that the consumption of malt had increased considerably. They might talk of the demoralization of the beer-shops, but when they walked about the streets of London, and saw on every hand erections like palaces, which were entirely supported in a lavish and gaudy expenditure on gin, at the expense of the happiness and morals of the people, where the evils of pauperism were perpetually augmenting, what were the beer-shops in comparison with these giant haunts of vice? The Government derived a revenue of many millions yearly from the consumption of ardent spirits. If, however, there were evils in the administration of the Beer-law, let them be corrected.
 Mr. Estcourt  considered the subject was one of too much importance to be allowed to pass without making a few observations on it. He could not agree with the noble Lord, that the evils which existed were in consequence of the bad administration of the Poor-laws; the Poor-laws did not originate the mischiefs, for they had greatly augmented since the passing of the Beer-Act. By the operation of that law, the labouring classes were led into bad associations, and many, who had been respectable, honest, and provident, were now dissolute and improvident. Having been many years a Magistrate, and seen much of the distress of the poor, he could state that he had repeated applications for advice by females, who stated that their husbands, who were formerly industrious, careful, and in the habit of bringing their wages home, were now in the habit of spending their money, and what wages they got, at the Beer-shops. He could assure the House, that the pictures of wretchedness and profligacy which were continually exhibited before the Magistrates were extreme, and were daily increasing. It had been stated, that one cause for passing the Beer-act was, that it would enable the labouring classes to get good and wholesome beverage at a cheap rate, without resorting to a public-house, where they would get intoxicating liquors; but it was a fact, that such was the monopoly by the brewers (the beer-shop-keepers selling only by Commission, and as servants) that for a line of twenty, thirty, and even forty miles in extent, the beer-shops belonged to the brewers; and the consequence was, that the liquor that was sold was not genuine, and was a very unwholesome article. It could not be compared to the liquor sold by the regularly licensed victuallers, who were a respectable body of men, and were greatly injured by the beer-shops. He had it from authority, that there never was a time when such a vast number in that trade had become bankrupts as since the passing of the Beer-law. As to the difficulties which stood in in the way, he apprehended there were none that might not be easily removed.
 Mr. Blackney  was glad that his Majesty's Government were slow and cautious in making any alteration in this law. He considered the House most unprofitably employed on the present discussion, and trusted that the good sense of Members would immediately put an end to it.
 Sir Charles Burrell  presented a Petition, signed by twenty-nine Magistrates of the county of Sussex, complaining of the evils produced by the operation of the Act for the Sale of Beer, and praying for its total repeal. He viewed the question as one of the greatest importance to the agricultural interest of the country, and expressed his regret that no Minister of the Crown was present to state the views of Government on the subject. The Beer-shops had proved a fruitful source of demoralization in the country, encouraging drunkenness, gambling, and all kinds of vice. They had put the county of Sussex to an expense of at least 8,000 l
 Viscount Howick , in reply, begged to
 1160 1161
 Lord Howick  was anxious not to be understood as saying more than he really
 1164
 Sir James Graham  said, that he would offer no opposition to the introduction of the Bill, but he must at the same time state to the House, that with respect to abolishing the deduction of 6 d 1372
 Mr. George F. Young  considered, that if his hon. friend, the member for the City of London was at all impressed with the idea, that his proposition would tend to injure Greenwich Hospital, he would be found the last person to introduce the measure. Such were also his feelings; but he thought Government should provide other sources for the support of that justly esteemed and celebrated institution.
 Mr. Buckingham  declared it to be most unjust to call upon a poor class of men to pay for that from which they could derive no benefit. He would be happy to know how many merchant seamen had been inmates within the walls of Greenwich?
 Sir James Graham : There were at the present moment 2,700 inmates in the Hospital, of which number 1,100 had been employed in the merchant service.
 Mr. Hume  begged to ask the right hon. Baronet, if having been in the merchant service was the recommendation for the succour of Greenwich Hospital.
 Sir James Graham  said, that one day's employment in the King's service was a sufficient recommendation. Many of the seamen alluded to had acquired chronic diseases when afloat in the mercantile navy; and having been for a short period on board his Majesty's ships, they fell back upon the Hospital, and were then receiving aid. Such diseases, be it always recollected, were not generated in the King's service.
 Mr. Murray  declared, that he had not heard a single valid argument urged against the Bill. The existing laws not being enforced became a dead letter, and, therefore, they ought not to remain on the Statute-book. He denied that it was adverse to the principles of Christianity to support with a sword a just cause, such as that of Poland for instance, or that of Protestantism, which had been defended by Gustavus Adolphus in Germany.
 Mr. Andrew Johnstone  said, that if it were only for the purpose of a protest the present law should not be erased from the Statute-book. Agreeing with those who thought it should not be repealed, he begged leave to move, that the Bill be read a second time this day six months.
 Mr. Littleton  commenced by observing that any one, however conversant, argumentatively, historically, or financially, with the present question, would feel, he thought, some difficulty in following the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down; for although he was very willing to allow the learned Gentleman that merit which generally characterised all that fell from him, of frankness and fairness, he must say, that he had been as little argumentative on the present occasion, and as discursive and declamatory as any Gentleman who ever spoke within the walls of that House. The hon. and learned Gentleman by whom this important subject was introduced to the consideration of the House, founded his Motion on statements of a financial, statistical, commercial, and historical description; and his right hon. friend the Secretary of the Treasury (Mr. Spring Rice), in that extraordinary and powerful speech in which he followed the hon. and learned Gentleman, controverted, as he (Mr. Littleton) thought irrefragably, every one of that hon. and learned Gentleman's statements; but the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, although at the commencement of his speech he announced his intention to answer the speech of his hon. friend, not only left the thread of his argument, but every one of his minuter details, intact and unbroken. The great
 1353 1354 "—Great, glorious, and free, First flower of the earth, first gem of the sea." 1355 Pilot 1356 1357 Pilot 1358 1359 1360 1361
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor : If the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Spring Rice) with his acknowledged talent and long experience, was entitled to the indulgence of the House, I trust, that in rising to speak on a question of the greatest magnitude and importance that has ever been discussed within these walls, I do not ask too much in requesting the fullest measure of indulgence; and although I undertake an awful and arduous task, yet do I not shrink from its performance, feeling as I do that the cause which I now advocate is based on wisdom, justice, and true policy. That this discussion
 1334 1335 1336 1337 Tenth transmitters of a foolish face. l l 1338 1339 exposè 1340 1341 1342 1343 1344 1345 d 1346 1347 l 1348 Give me the avow'd, the erect, the manly foe, Bold, I can meet, perhaps may turn his blow; But of all plagues, good Heaven! thy wrath can send, Save, save, oh! save me from the candid friend! 1349 1350 1351 1352
 Mr. Finch  was opposed to this measure. He thought that some power should exist in the Crown of preventing its subjects entering into the service of foreign states. He should prefer the amendment of the present law to the total repeal of it. If the law were repealed he had some doubts whether by the Common Law the Crown would not have the power of enforcing the principle of the present law. They had the authority of some eminent lawyers in support of that opinion, but on the other hand he admitted that they had contrary authorities. It might be said that the penalties inflicted by the present law were too severe; but it ought not to be forgotten that few things were more likely to involve the nation in a war than
 1369
 Mr. Barron  said, this question had already been most ably discussed by the hon. Members who preceded him in the debate; yet he felt it due to himself and to his constituents shortly to state the motives which induced him to give his support to the measure proposed by the hon. and learned member for Dublin. Ireland had for some time been afflicted by one of the greatest evils which could befall any country, that of absenteeism. It had been stated by the right hon. Secretary for Ireland—and he (Mr. Barron) did not mean to deny the fact—that there had been a great number of absentees before the Union; but if that had been felt as an evil before, it had become a tenfold greater evil since that period. In fact, the Union had greatly increased the number of absentees; and he knew of no good which could compensate for the absence of the nobility and large landed proprietors of that country. A resident nobility and gentry not only set the example, but afforded to their tenants the means of industry and improvement, and greatly advanced the civilization and wellbeing of those around them. How, he asked, could any country be expected to prosper when the great mass of the nobility and gentry were absent from it, being, as they partly were, drawn from it by the necessity of attending to their legislative duties. Almost all the nobility and gentry of Ireland had absented themselves from it since the Union; he would not say all, but certainly three-fourths, of them had. The consequence was, that more than 5,000,000 l 1362 ex necessitate 1363 1364 l l 1365 1366 l 1367 1368
 Mr. Emerson Tennent : * * 1289 1290 her 1291 1292 veto 1293 1294 1295 1296 1297 1298 1299 1300 1301 1302 1303 l l 1304 
 
 Ships. Tonnage. 
 1788 1,016 60,776 
 1790 1,134 62,336 
 1795 1,099 58,778 
 1800 1,003 54,262 
 
 1780 753,977 
 1788 1,365,138 
 1790 1,404,960 
 1795 1,040,296 
 1800 1,924,042 
 
 Ships. Tonnage. 
 4 years to 1787 233 9,227 
 5 years to 1795 193 8,447 
 5 years to 1800 111 6,456 
 
 England. Scotland. Ireland. 
 In 1783 12,624,372 653,709 3,077,446 
 1800 43,152,019 2,346,068 4,015,976 1305 l l 1306 l l 1307 —Last scene of all which ends This strange eventful tragedy, Habeas Corpus 1308 Most delicate monster with two voices,— 1309 ipso facto 1310 de facto de jure de jure 1311 1312 * * 1313 Si quando uniantur duo populi, non amittantur jura, sed communicabuntur:  * * * 1314 1315 
 
 1801. 1831. 
 Inwards 711,242 tons 1,420,382 
 Outwards 703,717— 1,073,545 
 
 1801. 1825. 
 Imports 4,621,344 tons 8,596,785 
 Exports 4,064,545— 9,243,210 created 
 
 1800 36,112,361 
 1830 57,947,413 
 
 1800 379,679 quarters. 
 1826 2,226,774— 
 
 1800 19,891 head. 
 1826 196,807— 
 
 1800. 1830. 
 Wine and Spirits 4,295,499 gals. 9,137,015 
 Tea (in 1828) 2,773,070 lbs. 3,887,955 
 Raw Sugar 226,936 cwt. 342,701 
 
 1800. 1830. 
 Coffee 73,370 lbs. 898,363 1316 l l l l l 1317 l l l l l l l l l l —"We seek no change, And, least of all, such change as he would bring us." 1318 
 
 1801. 1830. 
 Imports from foreign ports £1,350,294 £1,547,849 
 from Great Britain 3,270,350 7,048,936 
 Exports to foreign ports 256,819 711,854 
 to Great Britain 3,537,725 8,531,355 "Man enamoured of distress, Has marred her into wilderness." 1319 1320 l "Populus me sibilat, at mihi plaudo, Ipse domi, simul ac nummos contemplar in arcâ." 1321 "—Great, glorious, and free, First flower of the earth, and first gem of the sea." 1322 1323 1324 alter ego 1325 1326 1327 1328 1329 ruse de guerre 1330 1331 1332 1333
 Mr. Plumptre  also felt obliged to oppose the Bill, and expressed his intention to divide the House upon the question. He did not think it was right on the part of a Christian Government to allow the people of this country to draw their swords in foreign quarrels. Such a proceeding was, in his opinion, anything but creditable, and ought not to be sanctioned.
 Mr. Pease  contended, that passing such a measure as this, would be establishing the principle that those who could pay most money should be able to effect the most slaughter. For his part, he thought that a repeal of the present law would,  pro tanto canaille 1370
 Mr. Robert Grant  said, that the late hour of the night, if there was no other cause, would prevent him from going into any lengthened statement on the subject of the Motion which he was about to submit, and of which he had given notice. The matter had, however, undergone a full discussion on a former occasion, but if any hon. Gentleman wished additional information respecting it, he should be most happy to afford it. He would then only move, "That the House should resolve itself into Committee, for the purpose of considering a Resolution which he meant to propose relative to the Disabilities under which that portion of his Majesty's subjects, professing
 1373
 Sir Robert Inglis  thought, this was one of those occasions which justified him in departing from the ordinary practice of the House. He admitted, that the usual course was not to object to any measure until the second reading; but, although that was the case generally speaking, he felt it his duty  in limine
 Sir Robert Inglis  held war to be such an evil that it was not to be entered upon without the utmost caution; but, above all, a country should prevent its subjects taking a part in a civil war in a foreign country. He did not conceive that any man was at liberty to slay his fellow-man unless in self-defence, or by lawful authority. He objected to anything like a free trade in war, or to allow men without a licence to slay their fellow-creatures. If the question was stripped of the false colours of military glory with which it was invested, he was sure that most men who would take the trouble to consider the matter would be opposed to it. He would ask whether it was just that any man should be at liberty to carry to market his best energies for killing his fellow-men? That, in point of fact, was the question involved in the measure. He should oppose the Bill of the hon. Member as calculated to lessen the security of the peace of Europe, and as being, likely to involve the country in a war. Above all he objected to it because it lessened the checks which prevented men carrying their swords to market to slay their fellowmen.
 Lord Althorp  rose, to state the grounds upon which he supported the present Motion. He had opposed the original introduction of this Act, and he had since come to the conclusion, that it would be advisable to repeal it. It did not in any way affect the principle alluded to by hon. Members, neither would its passing in any way interfere with the principles of Christianity. As a law, that which now existed was altogether inefficient, and the result of it was, in fact, predicted at the time it was passed. But it would be impossible to pass any law to prevent British subjects entering the service of foreign States which would not be so severe as to render it utterly hopeless that it could be carried into execution. But there was another reason why the present law should not remain on the Statute-books, and that was the tendency which it had to involve this country in unpleasant discussions with other countries, who, knowing it to exist,
 1371
 Mr. Crompton  supported the prayer of the Petition. The lady in question was seeking, by most unjustifiable means, to obtain a hold over the borough; and, if she went on in her present plans, as there were only 300 voters, it would be a mockery to call it an open borough. It would soon be emphatically her borough.
 Mr. Heathcote  regretted so low a tone was taken in that House by the supporters of the agricultural interest, with respect to the maintenance of the present system of Corn-laws. He did not think, after the division of a former night, there was any danger to be apprehended. The noble Lord, he believed, would not alter the Corn-laws if he could, nor did he believe he could if he would.
 The Marquess of Chandos  was sorry to see no hope held out by the noble Lord to alleviate the distress of the agriculturists. The noble Lord had expressed a hope, that great relief would be afforded by measures which were now in progress through the House; but what the agriculturists required was, immediate relief; and not to be kept in a state of suspense till the end of the Session, when they would be told it was too late to afford it. The very existence of the country depended upon the former; and, if something was, not done by the Government to relieve the distress under which they now laboured, he should feel it to be his duty again to bring forward a Motion on the subject, and he trusted he should not be left in so small a minority as he was on a former occasion during the present Session.
 Mr. Ruthven  rose, and began by observing, that he was aware of the difficulties which he should have to encounter in addressing the House, and of his incapability to secure that attention which the magnitude and importance of the subject required. At the same time he was fully determined to discharge his duty to his country, to his constituents, and to himself. The Repeal of the Union was a question that resounded throughout every part of Ireland. Its progress made most rapid strides. He thought that his hon. and learned friend and colleague (Mr. O'Connell) was perfectly right in having gone into a historical review of the state of Ireland. An inquiry had taken place into the effects produced by northern Unions, as in the instance of Sweden, Denmark,
 6 7 l 8 9 l l l l l l l
 Mr. John Brown  was certain, that even those hon. Members who acted on this occasion with the hon. and learned member for Dublin, must feel, that the course he had pursued, and the arguments he had advanced in bringing forward the measure, were not at all calculated to further the object which he and they had in view. He felt relieved from the responsibility he should otherwise have felt pressing upon him, in addressing the House on this subject, by the circumstance of knowing that, in expressing his own sentiments, he was also expressing those of the large and respectable constituency which he had the honour to represent; and knowing and recollecting this, he would not be deterred from the fearless and explicit expression of his sentiments by any of the sarcasms of the hon. and learned member for Dublin. The House and the country were under obligations to the hon. and learned member for the county of Cork, for the candour he had shown on this occasion; for it was chiefly owing to him that the question of the Repeal of the Union was now brought to the bar of public opinion. Circumstances might soon arise, in the present state of Ireland, which would make it necessary to grapple with the question then before the House; and his Majesty's Ministers, now that it was brought before the House, ought to grapple with it firmly, vigorously, and fearlessly. He (Mr. Brown) had no hesitation in saying, that there were no respectable persons in Ireland who did not contemplate the possibility of the measure passing without dismay. He could state, that, according to his own knowledge, the people of Ireland did not wish for a Repeal of the Union. It was not their question, but solely the question of the hon. and
 10
 Mr. Baines  said, that the flagrant violation of the people's rights committed at Ripon, which certainly was a gross perversion of the spirit of the Act, had been, if possible, exceeded by a circumstance that had taken place at Leeds at the last election. Instead of a cow-house, a pigstye was endeavoured to be made the medium of sending a member to this House. This pigstye consisted of only four stones set upright; and being called a building, and having land of sufficient value attached to it, three persons actually voted in right of it. He trusted that some alteration would be made in the Reform Act, that would defeat these invasions of the people's rights, and make voters the holders of real buildings.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said: Sir, the Coercion Bill is an answer to the speech of the right hon. the Secretary of the Treasury. The law which, under false pretences, swept away the liberty of Ireland, and annihilated the Constitution, repealed the Habeas Corpus Act, abolished the Trial by Jury, established military tribunals and created an arbitrary dictator—that law, I say, is an answer to the right hon. Secretary. It is a sufficient answer; it is the only answer that Ireland ought to give; it is the only answer that Ireland condescends to give. But, Sir, the advocate of the people must go further; and though Ireland might rest her case here, he cannot remain silent. There are two difficulties in the way of the right hon. Gentleman—a matter of fact and a matter of right. As to the former, I ask him to look to the state of the country on which the Union, he says, has conferred such innumerable blessings. But I say,  si queris monumentum, circumspice 17 18 Cruro Thymo plena; l 19 20 l 21 l l 22 l 23 de facto 24
 Mr. Lambert  commenced by observing,
 30 31 32 33 de facto No, no! 34 —Great, glorious, and free, First flower of the earth, and first gem of the sea? Cries of Hear, hear from Mr. O'Connell 35 36 Pilot Pilot Pilot 37 38 39 Weekly Register 40 41
 Mr. Childers  presented Petitions from Melton, and twelve other places, complaining of agricultural distress, and against any alterations in the Corn-laws.
 Mr. Sheil : The speech just spoken has been received with loud and enthusiastic acclamations; and if it were less able—if the hon. Gentleman had substituted invective for argument, and by his phraseology, his topics, and his utterance, had afforded reason to conjecture that his political conduct was, in some measure, influenced by his personal resentments—the acclamations would not, therefore, perhaps, have been less enthusiastic, or less loud. Fortunate advocates, whose success depends as much at least on the predilections of the tribunal, as upon the eloquence of the pleader, or the merits of the cause! I have heard my hon. friend when he exhibited fully as much ability as upon this occasion; but never saw him received with
 42 Lambert: 43 'We humbly represent to your Majesty, that the Imperial Parliament have taken the affairs of Ireland into their most serious consideration, and that various salutary laws have been enacted since the Union, for the advancement of the most important interests of Ireland, and of the empire at large.' 44 45 46 47 48 factum valet 49 No! No! l 50 l l 51
 Mr. Sheil .—I assert, that there is not one Irish Member out of all the 105 sent from Ireland who holds an office connected
 52 53 54 * l l l l * 55 56 57 Hibernis Hibernior ———all my faults observed, Set in a note-book, conn'd and learn'd by rote To cast into my teeth. 58 * * 59 * † * † 60 61 62 63 64 65 We take no note of time But by its loss. l 66 67 68 d Shoulder the crutch, and shew how fields were won; The mist that o'er the marsh glides, 69
 Mr. Spring Rice .—I would remind the hon. and learned Gentleman, that the present Lord-lieutenant, the highest officer of the Crown in Ireland, is an Irishman; that, the Earl of Belfast is Vice-Chamberlain of the King's household: that, Mr. Fitzgibbon is Lord-lieutenant of Limerick, and that many other Irishmen whose names might be mentioned hold offices under the Crown.
 Mr. Staveley  presented a Petition from the inhabitants of Ripon, thanking the hon. House for passing the Reform Bill, and complaining of the manufacture of votes for cow-houses, and other mean buildings, seven miles from that borough, whereby the constituency
 2
 Mr. Cartwright  said, that those interested in agriculture in Northamptonshire, felt strongly aggrieved that relief had not been extended to them, and had formed no part of the Chancellor of the Exchequer's scheme of appropriating his surplus revenue; on the contrary, that surplus was applied to relieve the taxation pressing on interests comparatively flourishing. Why should not the land participate in the relief? Why was it still to bear all the burthens heretofore imposed, besides having the burthen of increased county-rates? As to the Repeal of the Corn-laws, which was so strongly called for, and in favour of which the Government gave such feeble support, if that Repeal were to take place, it would lead to the greatest convulsion, and involve thousands of farmers in ruin.
 Sir Daniel Sandford  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman, the member for Cork, in presenting a petition in favour of the Repeal of the Union, from certain of the inhabitants of Paisley, took occasion to say, that a considerable proportion of the people of Scotland were friendly to the measure. The statement was altogether unfounded. With regard to the west of Scotland, with which he was most intimately connected, he could state some peculiar circumstances, which would account for a certain number of persons there being friendly to the measure of Repeal. There were, in the west of Scotland, no fewer than 45,000 Irish emigrants, belonging, with very few exceptions, to the Roman Catholic persuasion; and in Paisley, the town he had the honour to represent, there were nearly 11,000 Irish Roman Catholics. It was almost exclusively by this class of persons that the petition which the hon. and learned member for Dublin presented, was signed. It was a rather singular circumstance, that the first question which came before the House on his first appearance in it was the momentous question of the Repeal of the Union,—one of the most momentous questions, he would say, which had, for years, come under the deliberation of Parliament. He came into that House a perfectly independent and unfettered 'man; he did not belong to either of the parties into which the House was divided; and, therefore, his sentiments were the more entitled to respect. He would give his most decided opposition to the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman; and he could assure the House, that, in doing so, he was acting in accord-
 11 12 Annual Register 13 14 15 16
 Sir Harry Verney  must bear testimony to the increasing distress which prevailed in the agricultural districts, and considered that the peaceable character of the meetings which were everywhere taking place, and the constitutional means by which they made their grievances known to the House, were circumstances which rendered their petitions worthy of the most serious consideration.
 Sir Robert Peel  spoke to the following effect:— * Cries of Go on * 70 71 Opposuit natura argumenta ad hominem 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 * * * * Movement Movement 80 'My Lords and Gentlemen.—It is with regret that I feel myself obliged to advert to those secret and treasonable associations, the dangerous extent and malignity of which have in some degree been disclosed in several trials, and in the disturbances which have taken place in some parts of the kingdom. It remains for your prudence and wisdom to devise such measures as, together with a continuance of those exertions, and the additional powers which, by the advice of the Privy Council, I have thought it necessary to establish in several counties, will prevent the return of similar excesses, and restore a proper reverence for the laws of the country.' 'His Majesty has required your attendance in Parliament at this early period, in order that he may resort to your deliberative wisdom at a time when the ambitious projects of our enemies have threatened to interrupt the happiness and prosperity of his people, by making a descent upon this kingdom and Great Britain.' 81 82 Divide et impera; 83 corruptio optimi, pessima 84 bonâ fide 85 86 87 à priori bonâ fide 88 de jure 89 90 91 92 93 94 95
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  agreed with what had fallen from his hon. colleague (Sir Harry Verney), that it was not by tumultuous meetings, and endeavours to intimidate, that the distresses of the agriculturists had been made known, but by the more constitutional means of petitioning Parliament. He differed very much in opinion from the noble Lord (the Clancelcellor of the Exchequer), as to the discussion which had taken place on the Corn-laws, and thought the agricultural interest was not adequately represented in that House, but that it had much to apprehend from it, as well as from the present Government, it having been stated by the noble Lord, that the Government would not oppose a measure for the Repeal of the Corn-laws.
 Lord Althorp  denied having made such an assertion. What he said was, that the Government, as a Government, did not intend to bring forward any proposition with respect to the Corn-laws; but that
 5
 Lord Althorp  said, nothing would afford him more pleasure than to bring forward a measure that would give relief to the agricultural interest of the country, particularly if that measure would be consistent with the general public good. With respect to the selection of those taxes, it was his intention to remit, he admitted he had not proposed the repeal of any taxes which were entirely confined to agriculture; indeed, in looking at the public taxation of the country, it was not easy to find one tax that pressed specifically and exclusively on the agriculturist. The removal of the County-rates, he was willing to admit, would be a relief, and with this view he had himself moved for a Committee on the subject. He anxiously hoped, that the labours of that Committee would furnish some proposition that would relieve the agricultural districts. His opinion was, and he had expressed that opinion more than once, that the farmer was more oppressed by the local than by the general taxation of the country. Entertaining this opinion, he had brought in a measure to
 4
 Colonel Evans  said, he was inclined to think that in strictness the sentence was legal; but there could be no doubt of its being more severe than the offence warranted. He regretted that the Trades' Unions had been misled in several parts of their conduct, of which he thought their marching through the streets some days back, under the idea, that it would help those unfortunate Dorchester labourers, was one of those parts. At the same time he was bound to bear testimony to their
 117
 Sir George Strickland  said, that the hon. members for Dublin and Middlesex disagreed about the legality of the sentence, the former asserting that it was legal, and the latter the contrary. He was inclined to adopt the opinion of the hon. member for Dublin; but he could not, at the same time that he did so, help expressing his doubts as to the propriety of carrying so severe a sentence into effect. The course adopted by his Majesty's Government in reference to these men, putting humanity out of the question, was, perhaps, not prudent, and the case was one which called for a fair investigation, and an extension of the royal mercy.
 Mr. Lloyd  observed, that as the law upon the case was very doubtful, that circumstance ought greatly to palliate the offence of which the men were convicted. It should be presumed, that while eminent authorities differed on it, labourers must have been ignorant of such a law existing. He did not impute anything to the learned Judge who tried those men, for he had been convinced that such was the law, and he was bound to pass the full sentence upon those who were convicted. He must, however, say, that he blamed his Majesty's Government for not showing some leniency towards those men. He was as much as any man opposed to Trades' Unions, still he would not stretch the law to put them down. Voluntary associations were perfectly justifiable; the employment by the Unions of coercion was the only principle that, to his mind, attached a criminal nature to their proceedings.
 Mr. Hill  had no doubt of the legality of the conviction and sentence; but he thought, that there could be little doubt also, that the men committed the offence in ignorance of the law. Theirs was a case which called for the exercise of the Royal prerogative of mercy. He thought it one of the greatest defects in the criminal judicature of this country, that although, in all civil actions, a man had the power of appeal against any supposed error in a decision to his prejudice, even where the matter in dispute was of no more than 5 l 127
 Mr. O'Connell  agreed in what had been observed respecting the intolerableness of any tyranny used by the Unions towards fellow-workmen. The state of society in these kingdoms was quite unnatural. There was a surplus of labour in the market; and this being constantly kept up, enabled the manufacturer to employ labourers from Ireland, &c., at a minimum of wages, and to put the difference in their pockets as profits. It was a state of society from which evil results of a fearful nature might reasonably be expected to flow; but he had no such fears from Trades' Unions as hon. Members contemplated. If Trades' Unions kept within bounds of law, they certainly would possess a degree of moral force which might make them a source of uneasiness to evil
 124 21,  Essex-street, London, April Sir,—Having been informed that you have given notice of a Motion in the House of Commons on the subject of the sentence passed on the Dorchester agricultural labourers, I take the liberty of mentioning to you some circumstances connected with their case. I was present during the whole trial except the summing up of the Judge. The case was entirely supported by the evidence of accomplices. This evidence was given in a very loose and indistinct manner, and varied very materially from the depositions of the same witnesses taken before the committing Magistrates. On the principal point, the taking of an oath, these witnesses stated that they could not recollect what was said. The Counsel for the prosecution in vain endeavoured to elicit such answers as would have supported the indictment; and such answers as were at last drawn from them, with great difficulty, were suggested to them in the form of leading questions, by the Judge reading from the depositions. After all this, they did not say that an oath, or anything like an oath, was taken; but that there was a book on the table, which looked something like a Bible or Testament; that something was read which sounded like the Scriptures; that something was said about wages, and keeping secrets; and that they were blindfolded, and told to kiss the book. A paper was admitted in evidence, and read, which purported to appertain to a friendly agricultural society. This paper had been found in the work-box of the wife of one of the prisoners, which box opened by a key found in the prisoner's pocket. This paper
 125 Nothing can be more false than the statements which have appeared in the Government newspapers of the condition in life, and education of the prisoners, to the effect, that they were religious teachers or preachers. They were all of the poorest set of agricultural labourers. Their appearance and demeanour at the trial entirely supported their defence, which was, that they did not know that they were doing anything against the laws, that they united to support themselves and their wives and families, and to maintain them when out of work. I think all, but certainly most of them, received good characters as hardworking industrious men. If anything of importance occur to me before you make the Motion in the House of Commons, either respecting any additional facts, or any incorrectness in those which I have mentioned, I will trouble you with another communication. I will now only add my deliberate opinion; one in which I have reason to believe a vast majority of persons of all ranks and classes will, upon a knowledge of the facts, agree, that, supposing the conviction to be legal, the extreme punishment awarded in this case, was a most indiscreet and cruel application of the law. (The letter was signed B. EWETT.) 126
 Colonel Evans  regretted, that these opinions, which were so decided, had not been expressed at the Crown and Anchor meeting. But it seemed that the sound doctrines were kept for that House, while what would administer to popular feeling was uttered elsewhere. He again regretted that the Unions should attempt the adoption of any measures of intimidation.
 Mr. Lefroy  said, it appeared to him that if the Imperial Parliament were, at the instance of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, and those who supported him, to concur in a Repeal of the Union, or any measure for the establishment of separate Legislatures, it would be one of the grossest breaches of national faith and probity that ever was committed. He begged particularly to call the attention of English Members to this point:—they had been intrusted by Ireland (when she gave up her own Parliament), to legislate for her on certain terms. One of these was,—that we should be for ever represented in one and the same Imperial Parliament. The hon. member for Roscommon (Mr. D. O'Connor) said, that the Legislature which passed the Union had committed a breach of trust; but, if so, how much greater would be the breach of trust committed by the Imperial Legislature, were they to accede to the present motion, in opposition to the express terms which were stipulated for at the passing of the Union. Let the House look to the importance of this. At that time all the great interests of the country were to be provided for,—the landed proprietors, the Protestants, the Roman Catholics, the Church. The great question was then depending of the Roman Catholic claims; they obtained, by the transfer of the legislative power to an Imperial Parliament, the prospect of political power; but, on
 161 162 de facto de jure s 163 164
 Colonel Torrens  rose, amidst cries of question. Protracted as the debate had been, and exhausted as were all the topics it involved, he would compress, he said, within the narrowest compass possible his observations upon this important question. He was opposed to the Repeal of the Legislative Union, because it would lead to a dismemberment of the empire, and because dismemberment would aggravate, not relieve, the evils of Ireland, while it lowered England from her high estate. The advocates of Repeal contended, that a Repeal of the Union would remove the evil of absenteeism. He (Colonel Torrens) fully admitted, that absenteeism was an evil, but he maintained, that it was an evil which Repeal could not alleviate. Ireland had two classes of absentees—she had the absentee proprietors, whose rents being remitted in corn and other provisions, diminished the supply of food at home; and she had absentee labourers, who obtained their subsistence in England, and thus diminished the consumption of food at home. In taking a comprehensive view of the whole question of absenteeism, it was necessary to consider whether the quantity of food sent out of the country was greater or less than the quantity requisite to subsist the absentee labourers. Should these two quantities be equal, they would neutralize the effects of each other; the balance between population and subsistence would remain undisturbed, for the quantity of food remitted as the rent of absentee proprietors being equivalent to the consumption of the absentee labourers, the proportion between the numbers to be fed, and the funds applicable to their maintenance would be exactly the same. In the deficiency of statistical knowledge, it would be difficult to de-
 184 185 186
 Sir Hussey Vivian : At this late hour of the night I am extremely reluctant to trespass upon the attention of the House; nor should I do so, were it not that holding the situation I do in Ireland, with the knowledge of that country my residence in it has given me an opportunity of acquiring, and having paid much attention to the bearings of the question now before us, I should almost deem it a dereliction of duty were I to refrain from making a few observations in reply to some which have fallen from hon. Members who have spoken in favour of the Repeal of the Legislative Union. In approaching the consideration of this question, I hope I need not disclaim being influenced by any of those anti-Irish principles with which it is too common to charge those who are not disposed to concur in all the measures which some of those Gentlemen who advocate Repeal think necessary. I hope, also, it is not necessary for me to disclaim, in referring to individuals, (which it is impossible to discuss this question without doing) any intention of giving personal offence—an intention at all times as foreign to my principles, as any feelings other than those of the utmost kindness towards the
 187 188 189 190 191 192 prœmunire 193 Hear, hear! prœmunire 194 195 196 197
 Mr. Pryme  said, that if the House wished, he would move the adjournment of the debate.—[" No, No! 201
 Mr. Baldwin  said, that he would not at that moment enter into any discussion as to the policy of the Coercion Bill. He would apply himself to the consideration of the question then before the House, and he would fearlessly say, that the principles acted upon towards Ireland by this country, were those of a direct invasion of the rights of the Irish people. He would not say, that the opinions of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, who was accused of causing all the agitation by his wild speeches were not sometimes "wild." Yes, sometimes "wild," although he did not believe they were so; and he would add that, in place of being fraught with mischief, as was attributed to them by some persons, they were eminently Calculated to do good, and, by doing
 198 199 200
 Mr. Callaghan  was sensible that it was great presumption in so humble an individual as himself to address the House on this subject, after the very able and eloquent address of the right hon. Baronet. He was perfectly conscious of his own inferiority, yet, at the same time, he had a duty to discharge to those people who sent him there, and he had to entreat the indulgence of the House, while he trespassed on their patience as short a time as he possibly could. He had ima-
 128 s 129 * * 130 l l l 131 * * 132 133 134
 Mr. Ronayne  congratulated the House on the altered tone it had manifested during the progress of the present protracted debate. The patience and the attention with which hon. Gentlemen were permitted to give expression to their sentiments on this important question, augured well for the success of the cause that he and his hon. colleagues had espoused, and, when contrasted with the attempts that
 171 172 clarum et veneraBile nomen 173 * * 174 175 176 Ronayne 177 Tenth transmitters of a foolish face. 178 ——— Who had seen many changes, And always changed as true as any needle— His polar star being one that rather ranges, And not the fixed. He knew the way to wheedle: Thus, usually, when he was asked to sing, He gave the different nations something national— 'Twas all the same to him, 'God save the King' Or 'Ca ira,' according to the fashion all. l l l l 179 180 181 Laughter 182 Lucus a non lucendo 183 No—they have as hearts that never, never, Will stoop to be the Moslem's slaves, While Heaven has light, or Earth has graves.
 Mr. Edward Lytton Bulwer  agreed in a great measure with what had fallen from the hon. and gallant member for Westminster, respecting Trades' Unions; and he had always endeavoured to impress opinions of a similar nature on such Members of them as he happened to come in contact with. However, he thought the
 119
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  begged to observe, in reply to the hon. member for Yorkshire, that although the hon. and learned member for Dublin had at first considered the conviction of the Dorchester prisoners legal, he had, after mature consideration, altered his opinion, and he now declared the sentence to be illegal. With respect to the King v. Marks, there was one ingredient in that case which was not in this, namely, that the meeting was seditious. It was generally believed, that the Act under which these men had been convicted, had died a natural death; and the consequence was, that the 52nd George 3rd was passed, and there was no evidence adduced in the case of the Dorchester prisoners to bring them within the meaning of the latter Act. But he would follow the example of the hon. member for Yorkshire, and put the law of the case altogether aside. All the objects of the Government would be obtained by the conviction, and the decision of the Judge that the two Acts of Parliament did apply to such associations; and that being obtained, the case was one in which the mercy of the Crown was especially called for. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had the other day, in the case of  The Pilot 121
 Mr. Denis O'Connor  assured hon. Members that it was always with unaffected reluctance he trespassed on their attention, and the unwillingness which he at all times felt to obtrude his observations upon them was anything but lessened on the present occasion, by knowing that the opinions which he entertained upon the subject then before the House were not in unison with those of the majority of its Members. Be these, his opinions, right or be they wrong, he was conscious of his own sincerity in adopting them. He was not obliged to assume them, to decoy support to carry an election. They who favoured him with their suffrages gave them unconditionally. But, on the other hand, some, whose support he should be most anxious to receive, declined to give it to him from a knowledge of his opinions on this question. They were to him, in an electioneering point of view, rather a disadvantage than a service; as the only contest he had to apprehend was from an anti-Reform candidate, and the Repeal Question had a tendency, in some slight degree, to divide the liberal interests in the county which he had the honour to represent. Upon that, however, and upon every other question, he came into that House unbound, unfettered, and unpledged—the freely-elected Representative of an independent, intelligent, and confiding constituency—his opinions were his own, and he would not shrink from their avowal. From the earliest period to which his political recollections could revert, he always contemplated the Union as having interposed a fatal barrier to the improvement of Ireland. It might be, that he formed this opinion of it from dwelling on the
 155 156 157 158
 Mr. George F. Young  considered it advisable that the Trades' Unions should be made acquainted with the opinions of their friends in that House, on the nature and consequences of their proceedings. He should let no opportunity pass of deprecating the tyranny exercised by these bodies over their fellow men, which was intolerable in any civilized community.
 Mr. Aglionby  doubted whether the Act
 123
 Sir Henry Hardinge  begged to give his meed of praise to the gallant Colonel (Colonel Evans) for his manly and straightforward declaration of his opinions both in that House and at the public meeting at which he lately appeared. He (Sir Henry Hardinge) held in his hand a paper which showed what were the dispositions of the Trades' Unions. It was a copy of a notice which had been served upon most of the master tailors in London, on Saturday last, to the effect, that "none of the brothers shall be allowed to work for less than 6 s
 Mr. Warburton  begged to say, in contradiction of what was said by the first Lord of the Admiralty on a former day, that he was informed by the Solicitor for the six labourers, that the learned Judge did state his doubts, in open Court, of the Act of Parliament being intended to apply to this case. At any rate, the country at large was not aware of the applicability of the Act, which was a sufficient reason for mitigating the severe punishment these men had received.
 Mr. Hardy  said, the Trades' Unions had other objects in view than those for which they declared themselves to be united. Such combinations he considered most dangerous to the community. He did not say there was any objection, as the law stood at present, for any number of men to unite to obtain an increase of wages, or to protect themselves against oppression; but experience had proved that such was not their object, but that it was not only to intimidate the masters and the Government, but also to compel other workmen who were industriously and peaceably disposed to adopt the same course of conduct and become subservient to their views. They compelled them to pay large contributions, by which only their committee-men and delegates were benefited, and whose illegal and mischievous objects those combinations were calculated to promote. If the oaths were only to enable the unionists to know one another by a snap of the finger, or any other sign, as the hon. member for Marylebone supposed, they would be harmless. On the estate in which he held a share, being the largest portion of his property, there was to be held that day a meeting of the Unions of the West Riding of York; and if hon. Members would only read the advertisement calling that meeting, or rather the postscript to it, they would see that those associations had other objects than merely to raise wages. He saw from the Leeds papers received that morning, that a master had received notice that if he did not dismiss certain workmen who did not belong to the Union, he would have a strike in his factory. This was not to be borne. The terror and alarm created by this system were not confined to persons in trade, for the gentleman who had sent him the placard about the meeting to be held in the West Riding of York that day, had intreated him not to let it be known by whom it was sent, for he should become the object, if not the victim, of vengeance. He was not, therefore, prepared to call upon the Government to mitigate the punishment of these Dorchester labourers.
 Mr. Hume  said, that he had several Petitions to present relative to the sentence recently passed upon the Dorchester prisoners. They had been in his possession above a month, and, as he was anxious that the House should know the real feeling of the working classes relative to the conduct pursued by the Government in respect to these prisoners, he should read the words of the petitioners to the House. The first petition was from Newcastle-upon-Tyne. It stated, that the working classes were entitled to an equal degree of protection to the privileged orders, and that they were particularly entitled to mercy as they were ignorant of the law. He must say, that he thought that this part of the petition was entitled to the marked attention of the House. The petitioners went on to say, that the sentence passed upon the Dorchester prisoners was cruel and unjust, and ought to be remitted. The next petition which he had to present was from Dundee. Although it only remained for a few hours in Dundee after it was got up it was signed by many thousand persons. These petitioners said, that the sentence upon the poor fellows at Dorchester was a direct blow at the working classes, and that the conduct of the Jury in bringing in a verdict of guilty was a stain upon justice. He (Mr. Hume) deprecated this language, and he merely read it to show the state of excitement in which the working classes were in consequence of the circumstance in question. He need hardly repeat what he had often declared, however, that the working classes would always have a greater chance of having their complaints attended to by that House if they used temperate, but at the same time firm, language. The next petition was from the town of Belfast; these petitioners, after deprecating the severity of the punishment inflicted upon the Dorchester prisoners, called upon the House to institute a Committee to inquire into the objects of the Trades' Unions. He had a fourth petition from a place in Scotland the prayer of which, was similar to that from Dundee. He held, that the proceedings taken against
 115 116
 Mr. Perrin  said, it struck him, on a careful and calm survey of the arguments on the side of the Motion of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, that it would be impolitic to repeal the Union, and that policy and justice to the Irish people required that the continued system of agitation should be suppressed. It was plain to any one who heard the speech of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, and watched the course of the debate, that Ireland could not obtain her independence but by violence, and that her independence through Repeal meant separation. He (Mr. Perrin) would here conjure his countrymen who allowed themselves to be led away by the seductive cry for Repeal and national independence, to weigh well the consequences of that measure, which was separation; to consider first the true condition of the country, and see whether there were not other and more pressing claims on their legislative solicitude than the abstract phantasy of Repeal. Were there no poor to be sustained? Was there no violence to be arrested—no sedition to be checked? Let them, he conjured them, give up useless agitation, and improve the country. What good did agitation produce? Why, it continued that fever of the public mind that infected the whole country. While agitation lasted, there would rest on the great mass of the community in Ireland a plague-spot and source of contamination that would spread from north to south, from rich to poor, and infect the entire country with the leprosy of disaffection. If separation took place (and Repeal meant separation) who could tell what form of Government would be established, so complex were the materials of which the constituency were composed, so adverse were the separate interests to be engaged in the question, and so conflicting were the professed opinions of the leaders, who seemed to agree in nothing but in separation, however much they might cloak their de-
 143 * * 144 145 146 Esto perpetua
 Mr. Godson  thought, that either the Law Officers of the Crown, or the noble Lord the Under-Secretary to the Home Office, ought to be in their places, to attend to this discussion. With respect to subjects referred to in these petitions, he believed that no Gentleman had yet pointed out the fact that, in the case of the King v. Marks, the Court of King's Bench had decided that, illegal oaths taken with respect to trade, were liable to be punished under the Act in question. [Mr.  Feargus O'Connor 120
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that the hon. and learned member for Dublin, in the course of the very long speech which he had made, had consumed many hours in establishing certain propositions, which he, for one, had never been inclined to oppose. That Ireland had never been rightly subjected to England,—that she had been gained by a system of cruelty and oppression which had been scarcely ever paralleled, might be argued; but these were not topics which bad reference to the question before the House. It mattered not to him how we had obtained dominion in Ireland; and it was sufficiently affirmed, that Ireland had been treated by this country as an independent nation when the Union was effected. But the
 165 166 l l s 167 168 169 170
 Mr. Finn  deprecated discussions in that House upon points of law. He disapproved of the associations, and thought that the agricultural labourers especially were misled when they united to persecute their employers, whom they must know to be unable to give them higher wages. But he thought, that now when the Government had shown its firmness in refusing to yield to the intimidation of the
 122
 Mr. Finn  said, that he felt called upon to reply to the very extraordinary speech of the learned Sergeant who had just sat down. The learned Sergeant had said, that if the Irish Parliament was not competent to enact the Union, as a consequence, the Imperial Parliament was not competent to dissolve the Union; but even the hon. and learned Member himself did not attempt to deny or palliate the detestable means by which that Union had been effected. It was fashionable to talk of the corruption of the Irish Parliament; but it was not the Parliament of Ireland alone that was corrupt. Did not the House know, that every means were resorted to to corrupt that Parliament, and then would they say, that no share of guilt or shame attached to those who administered the corruption? Corruption was clothed in every shape and form; and after this—after every means had been resorted to to debauch the Irish Parliament—were they indeed to be told that that Parliament alone was guilty and corrupt? It was English Ministers and English men that carried the Union. The Irish Parliament should not bear the entire blame. It had been seduced treacherously anti guiltily into the sur-
 147 148 Volo, sic jubeo, stet pro ratione voluntas. 149 merus Hibernicus 150 esto perpetua credat Judœus Apella sine qua non 151 l Divide et impera 152 153 154
 Sir Robert Bateson  could assure the House that he should trouble them but for a very short period, and he should not have risen at all, but when he heard so much of the Irish people—when he heard, that the whole of Ireland were of one mind on this momentous question, he felt
 159 160
 Sir S. Whalley  said, the House of Commons had never yet turned a deaf ear to the voice of humanity; and he
 118
 Mr. Wallace  also supported the petition. He had travelled often in the steam-carriage on Mr. Gurney's principle, the property of Colonel Macerone, and such was its smoothness and easiness of Motion, that though going at the rate of sixteen miles and a-half an hour, he could shoot a pigeon flying, from the coach, though somewhat out of the knack. Another coach on Mr. Gurney's principle ran daily between Glasgow and Paisley with the utmost security, speed, and safety.
 Colonel Evans  thought, that the hon. Baronet in introducing his Bill, ought to state to the House its general purposes.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  protested against the assertion of the hon. and learned member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Shaw), who had stated, that the object of those who supported Repeal was ultimate separation. He, for one, most strongly denied, that he entertained any such views. The hon. and learned Member had said a great deal about the agitators of Ireland. It was true, that there was agitation in that country, but it was equally true, that the hon. and learned Member himself was one of the heads of a political party that aimed at representing the aristocracy of the country—pretensions to which he did not think the hon. and learned Member had any claims to aspire. He was rejoiced, that this subject had undergone the full and indulgent discussion that it had met with, and he would express a hope that it might become one of the periodical Debates of that House.
 Mr. Jephson  supported the petition. Mr. Gurney was a man entitled to the best consideration of the House. His invention would be of incalculable advantage to the country.
 Mr. Jephson  said, that, however able the speech which had been delivered by the hon. member for Belfast was, and although he admitted it exhibited very great talent, he must at the same time disavow all communion of sentiment with the latter part of it. He (Mr. Jephson) admitted, that there were Catholics and Protestants on both sides, and he thought it most injudicious to describe Anti-Repealers as belonging to one denomination, and Repealers to another. The fact, he repeated, was not so, and only a few such speeches as that which the hon. member for Belfast had made were required to convert this from a political into a religious question, and by that means to promote the objects of those by whom the question was agitated. The hon. and learned member for Tipperary referred to the cry which the Tories had raised against Reform, on the ground that it would ruin England; and inferred that if, instead of being ruined, this country had been benefited by Reform, the advocates of Repeal were justified in asserting that a dissolution of the Union would lead to a similar result. With respect to Ireland, the cases, however, were widely different. He was ready to acknowledge that the great majority of the people of Ireland were in favour of Repeal, but he was at the same time prepared to assert, that (he might almost say the whole of) the wealth and intelligence of the country were opposed to it. Not only were they opposed to it; they dreaded it, and called on the House to preserve the Union most strenuously. But let them consider who the parties were whom a Repeal of the Union would serve. Clearly it would be of no advantage to the upper classes; and as the lower classes could reap benefit only through the upper classes, it would be found to confer prosperity upon neither party; and, therefore, he asked them
 213 214
 Mr. Charles A. Walker  wished to state some of the reasons which induced him to give his support to the Motion of the hon. and learned member for Dublin; he had always been a repealer; he was so from principle, not from the empty vanity, or desire of having a separate Irish Legislature, unless he thought such would be productive of good government and prosperity to Ireland: he sincerely wished she had obtained those blessings from
 262 263
 Mr. Ronayne  said, that he had not described the communication from which he quoted last night as a private letter. It purported to be a memorial addressed by the Marquess of Anglesey to his colleagues, and dated Phœnix-park, October, 1832.
 Mr. Littleton  asked from whence the letter came to him (Mr. Hume)?
 Mr. Littleton  wished to have the precise date of the letter.
 Mr. Littleton  asked the date of the letter.
 Mr. Edward Ruthven  was disappointed, that the noble Lord opposite had not explained to the House the principle on which the Government opposed the demand for the great national inquiry sought for in the proposition of the learned member for Dublin. It was only a few days since a Committee to inquire into the state of Canada—a case where certainly the character of some members of the Government was at stake—had been agreed to; and another Committee had not been objected to, when the conduct of Baron Smith was to have been matter of inquiry. It really seemed as if the grievances of Ireland were not to be probed, and that a Whig Ministry inquired only into matters that suited its own purpose. The right hon. Secretary for the Treasury had, in a
 259 l l l 260 l l l l l l 261 protegé l
 Mr. Ayshford Sanford  was in favour of
 293
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  said, it was somewhat odd, that if there was little or no difference between the Address and the Resolution of his hon. friend the member for Middlesex, as the noble Lord would have them believe, the noble Lord should have felt it necessary to oppose the Amendment.
 Mr. Mullins  moved, as an Amendment, "That it is the opinion of this House, that an Address to his Majesty, having for its object the suppression of any Question consistent with the principles of the free Constitution of the British Empire, without a previous inquiry into, and Report upon, its merits by a Committee of that House, would furnish a precedent highly prejudicial to the interests of any portion of his Majesty's subjects, respectfully seeking for redress of grievances, and at variance with those principles which this House, as representing the great body of the people, is called upon to support."
 Mr. Mullins  said, that he would occupy the attention of the House for a very short time, knowing as he did, that it, was not in his power to advance any new argument in favour of the Motion of his hon. and learned friend the member for Dublin, which it was alike his duty as his inclination to support. He could assure the House that, in the course he meant to pursue, he was actuated, not by factious motives, but by a conscientious conviction, that in the event of the same line of policy being pursued as hitherto, a Repeal of the Legislative Union now subsisting between the two countries was indispensable to the prosperity of Ireland. He had reflected deeply upon this momentous question; he
 208 209 210 The Dublin Evening 211 212
 Mr. Shaw  assured the House, that he would detain it but for a very few moments. He was aware that patience was already exhausted, as well as every argument which ingenuity could suggest, for the purpose of opposing, or sound reason adduce in support of, the obvious truth and self-evident proposition, that Great Britain and Ireland could not permanently continue a United Kingdom unless they were governed by a united Parliament. For these reasons, and not having had it in his power to be present at the three first nights' debate, he should have given a silent vote against the motion of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, but that it had just been casually observed to him, that he was said to he wavering in his opinion on the subject. He was conscious of how little
 264 265 266 divide et impera divide et impera No, no from Mr. O'Connell 267
 Mr. Aglionby  said, with the exception of the first part, he preferred the Resolution of the hon. member for Middlesex to the Address. He recommended, that the last clauses of his hon. friend's Amendment should be embodied in the Address; and he thought, if that were done, that the prospect of relief that would be held out would satisfy the people of Ireland. His objection to the first part of his hon. friend's Resolution was, that it might leave an inference, that those who voted for it were not adverse to the dissolution of the Union.
 Mr. Warburton  felt it his duty to object to the introduction of any Bill on this subject, however unusual the course might be considered, until they knew its object.
 Mr. Warburton  said, it was his intention, when the clauses proposed by the hon. Baronet were about to be introduced to divide the House upon them.
 294
 Mr. Roebuck  thought, they ought to watch narrowly anything introduced by the hon. Baronet, since his opinions on this subject were pretty well known.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that this was a subject which involved so many interests, that it would not be advisable to allow any further changes to be made in the Beer-laws until the grounds of the proposed changes were fully stated to the House, in order that the thousands who were concerned in the matter might know exactly what was proposed to be done. Without such a statement, the introduction of the Bill could only tend to excite alarm, and, therefore he also should oppose the Motion of the hon. Baronet.
 Mr. Hume  said, that if his Resolution could lead to any such inference, as that he was favourable to a separation of the two countries, he should most undoubtedly not hesitate an instant to withdraw his Motion. He disclaimed any such intention; and if any such interpretation could be put upon the Resolution, which he had proposed, he should, he repeated, at once withdraw it.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the majority in favour of the Amendment of the right hon. Secretary was certainly ample enough for all purposes that were desirable, but one—it would not satisfy the people of Ireland. He regretted to think, that the right hon. Gentleman should be put forward to move an Address in a form which had never been yet adopted by any Ministers but the present, with a view, as he conceived, to crush the proposed inquiry. He was of opinion, they ought to come to an expression of a declaration, which should state how far the Legislative Union had failed in its anticipated effects, and to state what were the remedial measures which ought to be adopted by Parliament; without which, it was his decided opinion, Ireland could never enjoy peace or real
 288 289
 Mr. Hume  said, that the interest which he had formerly taken in all discussions relating to Ireland would, he hoped, induce the House to pardon him for the anxiety which he felt, before the close of the debate, to state the view which he took of that most important question. The hon. member for Wexford had stated a great portion of matter in which he concurred. He considered the question to be one of vital importance to both countries, and that it had not been soberly
 238 239 240 Cries of No, no No, no 241 * Cries of No no from the Ministerial benches No, no * 242 243
 Mr. Hume  said, 1832.
 Mr. Hume  said, he would hand him the document altogether in a few minutes. The hon. Member then proceeded to read the extracts, Speaking of the Protestant Church in Ireland, the noble Marquess said, 'This Establishment, which has always exceeded the religious wants of the Protestant congregations, has hitherto been upheld by the State, merely upon the ground, that it consolidated the connexion between the two countries.' [This, said the hon. Member, was, truly, a pretty reason why a Church should be supported.] 'But this service it no longer performs. Instead of strengthening the connexion, it weakens it. Any Government henceforth pledged to maintain that Establishment as it now exists, must be brought into constant and permanent collision with public opinion, and the prejudices and passions of the Irish people.' Good God! was it possible that any Ministry should continue to support such a system as this? Was it possible that any man could be found to support it? There was, perhaps, no wonder that a Tory might be found who would go to great extremes in support of the Church, and consent to give them a fee simple where they had only a life interest. But why should the present Ministers act thus? The present Government were acting under a mistaken feeling, which was fast sinking them, and they were dragging with them a liberal House of Commons, by whom they had hitherto been supported in an extraordinary manner. They were acting, too, directly contrary to those principles by which they had been actuated when out of office; but he begged pardon of the House for thus trespassing upon their attention, and would proceed to read the extracts from Lord Anglesey's letter:—'However attached myself to the doctrines of the Protestant Church, and however anxious to discountenance any violent changes in its temporal condition, it is impossible for me not to see, that the prevailing resistance to its legal pecuniary claims is only symptomatic of a deep-rooted, widespread conviction in the minds of the Irish community, that the continuance of this Establishment, in its present extent and splendour, is no longer justified by the condition of this country; and that the time has arrived for such just and practicable reforms in respect of it as may eventually place at the disposal
 245 l l 246 247
 Mr. Hume  said, in a low tone, "From a Gentleman near me."
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  said, there never was a time when the people sought for the recovery of their rights—there never was a time when they claimed relief from tyranny and oppression, that their
 215 216 l l l 217 218 l l l 219
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to reply. He said: There are two propositions in which the whole House seems to agree; the first is, that it is my duty now to close this Debate, and, in deference to this House, I shall, in discharging that duty, condense my observations as much as I possibly can; the second is, that this debate must be eminently useful. It cannot but be eminently useful; and I regret to say, from the nature of the topics which some have introduced, that it is not more conciliatory and more useful than I am now afraid it can be. Let me, for there has been a silence upon the subject—let me, without
 272 273 Hear! 274 275 276 277 278 279 280 281 282 283 West Briton! 284 esto perpetua 285 latitat 286
 Mr. Lalor  denied the accuracy of the statement made by the noble Lord, that
 258
 Mr. Christmas  entreated the indulgence of the House for a short time, while he briefly expressed his sentiments upon this great question. It was needless to enter into details of ancient oppression and ancient misrule. Such details might create a bad feeling in Ireland towards this coun-
 225 226 s 227 228 229 ipso facto de facto de jure 230 231 232 233
 Mr. Finn  equally objected to the Resolution of his hon. friend the member for Middlesex, as he did to the Address. He had made up his mind, that nothing but a
 290
 Mr. James  said, that instead of occupying the attention of the House for six hours, as some hon. Members had done, he should not occupy them even six minutes, if they would only grant him the indulgence of listening to him so long. Indeed, he should not have presumed to address the House at all, had he not presented a petition from a considerable body of his constituents in favour of the Repeal of the Union. He had not been able, for a considerable time, to make up his mind upon the subject. He had listened with the greatest attention to many of the speeches that had been delivered upon the question, and those that he had not heard, he had taken the trouble to read; but none of those eloquent appeals, not even the highly-gifted speech of the right hon. the Secretary of the Treasury, nor the argumentative and powerful display of the hon. Member who seconded the Amendment, nor the reasoning of any other hon. Member who had spoken on the subject, had succeeded in convincing him of the necessity of continuing the Legislative Union, because he was previously convinced, not only of the necessity of maintaining that Union, but, if possible, of cementing it still stronger. This conviction had been chiefly brought to his mind by the speech of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, who had introduced the subject to the House. That hon. and learned Gentleman, the able advocate
 271
 Mr. O'Reilly  said, that he had intended to give a silent vote on this occasion, because he had never entertained any doubt of the necessity of preserving the Legislative Union. He thought it was quite time that the system of agitation that was kept up in Ireland, should be put an end to, and the best mode of accomplishing that desirable object would be to preserve the empire entire.
 Mr. William Peter  said, that agreeing as he did, with the hon. member for Mallow, in his estimate of the arguments by which the Motion for Repeal had been supported, he would trespass very briefly on the indulgence of the House. In saying this, he meant nothing offensive to the feelings of any of the hon. Gentlemen opposite; but, he would ask, what that cause must be—how weak, how destitute of all reason—which not even their acknowledged talents—which not even the far-prevailing eloquence of the hon. and learned members for Dublin and Tipperary—could invest with the smallest semblance of plausibility? He sympathised, indeed, with those Gentlemen, in their grief for the sufferings, in their indignation at the contumelies and oppressions—which Ireland had endured for so many centuries from this country; he joined With them no less in their reprobation of the means, of the corrupt and unhallowed means, by which
 220 221 222 223 "Which God by curse Created evil, for evil only good; Where all Life dies, Death lives, and Nature breeds, Perverse, all monstrous, all prodigious things, Abominable, inutterable, and worse Than Fables yet have feign'd or Fear conceiv'd." 224
 Mr. Peter  eulogised Mr. Gurney as a man of great merit, whose public services should meet with signal encouragement.
 Mr. William Roche  spoke to the following effect:—Sir,—Exhausted as is the state of this debate, exhausted equally as the attention and patience of the House must needs be, I shall confine myself to the question immediately and directly before us, namely, the expediency of appointing a Committee to inquire into the origin, the accompanying circumstances, and results of the Irish Legislative Union, or in other words, the advantages, or disadvantages, arising from that measure. Sir, I think my hon. and learned friend, the mover of the original question, has endeavoured, and commendably endeavoured, to shape his Motion in a manner as little obnoxious as he possibly could, to the various and conflicting opinions that prevail on this subject, whether as regards those whose sentiments are entirely adverse, or those who entertain opinions upon it not altogether so decided as his own. Undoubtedly, Sir, a question of such deep interest and importance should be approached
 268 269 270
 Colonel Verner  said: After the lengthened discussion which has taken place upon the Motion before the House, I can assure hon. Members that I shall not occupy one moment more of its time than may be necessary for the very few observations I wish to make; and although I had provided myself with some documents in order to submit them to it, yet, at this late period of the debate, I shall not refer to more than one or two, and those shall be very short. I did entertain the hope that, after the impression made on the House by the splendid speech, and by the powerful, and in my humble judgment, convincing arguments of the right hon. Baronet, the member for Tamworth, the advocates of this measure would have spared the House all further discussion on the subject, and have permitted the amendment of the right hon. Secretary for the Treasury to pass without further opposition. In that expectation I have been disappointed, and I must admit that, in some respects, I do not regret it; for by the course which has been adopted by the advocates of this measure, additional proof has been afforded, that agitation is not to be allowed to cease in Ireland, and that repeal is the true prelude and fore-runner of deeper and more dangerous measures: I trust, Sir, I may be permitted to make an allusion to a petition which I presented to the House this day, and which I consider, at this period of the debate, and after what has fallen from some Members as to the sentiments entertained by the Protestants of Ireland respecting the measure of Repeal, of very great importance. It is from the Protestant inhabitants of the county of which I have the honour to be one of the Representatives, and is signed by some thousands of persons, and cannot fail to remove the impression that the Protestants of Ireland, are favourable to Repeal. In order that the House may be enabled to judge of the influence that body is supposed to possess towards the accomplishment of this measure, at least in the opinion of some of its most strenuous advocates, I will take the liberty of reading two short extracts from letters addressed to the Protestants
 234 235 236 237
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  said, that he merely asked leave to bring in the Bill now, intending of course to explain its revisions on the second reading. He
 292
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  moved for leave, to bring in a Bill to regulate the Sale of Beer, observing, that any discussion of the measure that might be desired could take place on the second reading.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  said, he did not, at that late hour of the night, and in his present state of exhaustion, feel the power of fully stating the details of his proposed measure. He should briefly state its chief objects, and he hoped they would prove satisfactory to the House. The House was fully aware how the original measure for the sale of beer was introduced. He did not mean to interfere with the general principle of that Bill of giving cheap beer to the poor, and providing in this respect for their comforts and enjoyments. Though many of the Members behind him might differ with him on certain points, still, if it were shown to them that evils existed, he was sure they would unite with him in adopting mild means to remedy those evils. With a view of repressing those evils, it was his intention to submit a Bill which should provide that sufficient security should be given by individuals who intended to open beer-houses. Before permission was granted them to do so, they should be recommended by persons residing in their parish as fit and proper persons to open such houses. Drinking beer on the premises was not to be permitted, unless the persons owning beer-houses should obtain a certificate from respectable individuals resident in the parish, that a house for the consumption of beer in that way was convenient and necessary. It would be also necessary to give additional control as to the time those houses should be kept open, and to persons visiting those houses in case of disorder and disturbance. These were the chief regulating points of his proposed Bill, and he hoped that the House would be satisfied with them, and think he had said sufficient to show the expediency of introducing the present measure.
 Mr. Cayley  also supported the petition. The neglect of talent and public services had been the disgraceful characteristic of the old Parliament; it was incumbent upon the new Parliament to remove such a disgrace. Mr. Gurney's singular talent and public services entitled him to the best consideration and encouragement of the House.
 Sir George Cayley  supported the petition, and said, he considered Mr. Gurney a very ill-used man. He had, it appeared, sacrificed a lucrative profession, five years' toil, and a fortune of 30,000 l 207
 Sir William Molesworth  presented a Petition for an alteration in the tolls upon Steam Carriages plying upon common roads. The hon. Baronet stated, that the petition was from Mr. Goldsworthy Gurney, a gentleman well known to the scientific world, and the first person who succeeded in effecting locomotion by steam on common roads. With much patience and perseverance he had overcome the various mechanical difficulties which had been previously considered by all scientific men, except Dr. Wollaston, as absolutely insurmountable. This Gentleman complained, that the Legislature had thought fit to insert, in numerous Road Bills, clauses putting tolls amounting to prohibition on steam-carriages; the consequences of which had been, that the public had been deprived of the best and cheapest means of locomotion, and that the petitioner himself who had sacrificed his time, profession, and fortune in the pursuit, without obtaining the just reward of his important discoveries, had been much injured. The causes which led to the prohibitory enactments were these:—The first long journey performed by Mr. Gurney's carriage was from London to Bath and back. In 1831, the carriages ran between Gloucester and Cheltenham for four months, during which period they carried three thousand persons, and ran four thousand miles; the average rate of speed was ten miles an
 204 205 206
 Lord Althorp  continued. The hon. member for Cork county had, in the course of his speech, made several appeals to him, and had done him the honour—a far greater honour than he deserved—to say, that he would entirely understand his argument. The hon. Member had assumed, that the fact of Ireland exporting at one and the same time corn and cattle was a clear proof of the ruin of her agriculture. He confessed, that he was not able to follow this part of the hon. Member's argument; but this he knew, that, taking the case of any individual farm, so
 254 255 l 256 257
 Lord Althorp  thought, that some apology would be due from him to the House for trespassing on its attention at the present period of the debate, if he did not feel it to be his duty, on such a question as that under discussion, to state the grounds on which he founded his opposition to the Motion of the hon. and learned member for Dublin. The question appeared to be so exhausted, and the arguments which had been used against the Motion so conclusive, that he did not think it possible for him to introduce any new matter into the debate. Still he was anxious to make a few observations on what had passed during the discussion, and, as he had before said, to state the grounds on which he thought the question ought to be decided. The hon. Gentleman who spoke last, had observed, that one half of the speeches delivered in support of the Amendment consisted of attacks on the hon. and learned member for Dublin. He admitted, that many of the speeches might be so described; but he must also be permitted to say, that more than half of the speeches spoken in support of the original Motion were made up of quotations from the speeches delivered by his right hon. friend (Mr. Rice) in 1822. Indeed, he never recollected to have heard in any former debate so great a quantity of quotations as had been read on the present occasion. The noble Lord at the head of the Administration had been charged with inconsistency, with reference
 252 253
 Lord Althorp  never intended to pledge himself, that no objection to the introduction of the Bill should be made. The hon. Baronet had, however, given the Government precedence at an early hour, when he could have entered at length into an explanation of the measure, and, therefore, he (Lord Althorp) hoped the House would extend to the hon. Baronet the courtesy to which he was entitled, by giving him leave to introduce his Bill.
 Lord Althorp  said, that he should not take up the time of the House by offering any observations upon the proposition which the hon. Member had just made. He would, however, admit, that the hon. Gentleman having given notice of his intention to move such an Amendment did not take the House by surprise; but still, after there had been two trials of the question, he thought it quite uncalled for
 291
 Lord Althorp  denied, that by adopting the Address which his right hon. friend had proposed, the House would be expressing their approbation of the conduct of Parliament from the period of the Union down to the present time. If the Address could bear any such construction, all he could say was, that many hon. Gentlemen, and he among the number, would not, under any circumstances, give it their support. But it did not require from them a sanction which it was impossible they could conscientiously give, and therefore he felt fully prepared to vote for his right hon. friend's Motion. The Address proposed by his right hon. friend stated, and so did the Resolution of the hon. member for Middlesex, that beneficial measures had been passed for Ireland by the Imperial Parliament; and it further stated, as did also the Resolution of the hon. member for Middlesex, that it was the duty of that House to apply such remedial measures to the grievances of that country, as were now required to ameliorate and improve her condition. There was in point of fact little difference between the Resolutions, excepting that one contained more debatable matter than the other, and therefore those who were prepared to vote for the Amendment of the hon. member for Middlesex could not surely object to support the Motion of his (Lord Althorp's) right hon. friend.
 Lord Howick  expressed a hope, that the hon. Member for Bridport would not press his objection. He (Lord Howick) was as much opposed as any one to anything like monopoly in the sale of beer, but still it was impossible to look at the state of the law without being convinced of the necessity of imposing some new police regulations with respect to beer-shops. This was the principal object which the measure now proposed to be introduced by the hon. Baronet had in view, and therefore the House ought to consent to his Motion. He was sure, that both the hon. member for Bridport and the hon. member for Middlesex, must feel, that by certain police regulations, many of the abuses that now certainly existed, might be removed. No alarm would be caused out of doors by allowing the hon Baronet to introduce at present his proposed Bill, and to briefly explain the nature of the regulations he proposed. He trusted, therefore, that the House would consent to the introduction of the Bill, since that would not at all pledge them as to its details.
 Lord George Lennox  was in favour of a Labour-rate. He had had experience of its utility, and he could speak of it from his own knowledge. He was sorry that he
 310
 Mr. Fysche Palmer  bore testimony to the advantage of a labour-rate in Bedfordshire and Berkshire. He could speak from his own knowledge, that in those parishes where the plan had been introduced, all the labourers had been employed, the greatest regularity prevailed, and all were contented and happy.
 Sir George Strickland  rejoiced that his opposition to the Bill when it was introduced had been the means of preventing it being permanently acted upon. He contended, that the principle of the Bill was to make every man in the parish take a certain number of labourers, whether he wanted them or not. For his own part, he could not distinguish between such a principle and the principle adopted by the Trades' Unions, which had been so frequently deprecated in that House, of compelling masters to take a certain number of workmen whether they could find employ for them or not.
 Earl Grosvenor  concurred with those hon. Gentlemen who contended, that in introducing any such measure they ought rather to begin with the rich than with the poor. There were many other observations, however, made by the hon. and learned member for Bath (Mr. Roebuck) from which he entirely dissented. He approved of the suggestion of the hon. and learned Member to prevent travelling with carriages on a Sunday. When he looked to the Bill now before the House, it would be most disingenuous on his part if he hesitated to declare that he could not vote for the second reading. He regretted this, for there were portions of the Bill of which he entirely approved. He was quite ready to support any Bill on the subject that he considered would afford a reasonable prospect of being beneficial.
 336
 Mr. Halcombe  said, that the hon. and learned member for Bath had treated this measure as a measure of persecution, and said, he was determined to work the Bill. He also asked, "How far will you go? Will you compel persons to attend five sacraments in a day?" He (Mr. Halcomb) answered, no. Neither in this measure, nor in any other, did the supporters of the Bill, nor would they, attempt to enforce the exercise of religious duties, He challenged the hon. and learned Gentleman to point out any portion of this Bill that did enforce religious observances in the sense in which the hon. and learned Gentleman spoke. The whole principle of the Bill was to prevent, not to compel—to prevent acts of irreverence and indecorum on the Lord's Day; and so far he hoped it would receive the sanction of that House. The hon. and learned Gentleman also adverted, in that tone of sarcasm which was much at his command, to the language of the preamble of the Bill, which declared, that the object of the measure was, "The holy keeping of the Lord's Day as a principal part of the true service of God." The hon. and learned Gentleman asked, "What, then, is a ceremony a principal part of the true service of the Deity?" He would join issue with the hon. and learned Gentleman. He contended, that the keeping and observing decently of the Lord's Day was more than a mere ceremony. If it was not, indeed, then would the sarcasm of the hon. and learned Gentleman be well applied. This Bill would not have the effect of making people answerable to Parliament for the non-performance of their religious duties; in this manner they would continue, as heretofore, liable only to that ecclesiastical body to whom they ought to be amenable. The line of argument
 337 338 "God made the country, and Man the town."
 Colonel Evans  said, as it appeared to him, the great question was, whether the Bill then under consideration was curable or incurable. He thought the measure was one which was curable, and he would suggest how it might be cured. It had been charged against the Bill, that no Gentleman could be found to support any one of its clauses, but he would support one clause contained in the measure, namely, the exemption clause, as it was termed. That clause related to the exemption of hotel keepers, &c. This reminded him of an amnesty which was granted by a certain despotic Monarch. This absurd state document after having recited the terms of the amnesty, provided that every person who had been hostile to the reigning power previous to the promulgation of this Act, should be exempted from the operation of the amnesty. Acting on this principle, he would support this exemption clause of the Bill, and exempt from the operation of the Bill all other persons included in the previous clauses. He conceived, that this Bill was a confiscatory measure, and that a vast portion of property would be destroyed if it were allowed to be carried. He hoped in such a case, however, that the fishmongers and fruiterers would be exempted from the operation of the Bill. Many of his constituents were engaged in these trades; and he understood that, with regard to fruit especially, no less than one-fourth of that which was consumed in the metropolis was sold regularly between Saturday and Monday. He hoped, indeed, that this Bill would be thrown out, and some other measure introduced of a different character, because he would submit, that the law was already extremely severe in many respects.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  declared it was not his wish to treat the Bill of the hon. Baronet with levity, but to deal with the subject on a broad principle. He thought that a measure of this sort must be prejudicial to the true interests of religion. Hon. Gentlemen would see, that the practical working of the Bill must be to affect the lower classes, and to leave the rich unmolested. It did not trench upon the recreations of the higher classes, but it did on those of the poor. He should ground his opposition to the second reading of the Bill upon the conviction, that any interference by the Legislature on this particular subject must be injurious to the true interests of religion. They saw that in France, in the German States, in Prussia, and other parts of the continent, the Sunday, after the performance of religious duties, was made a day of relaxation and innocent amusement. In Hanover also, after church service, Sunday was made a day of amusement and harmless festivity; and even the Opera was open on that day. He would refer to those more acquainted with the south of England, and ask whether the indulgence in the game of cricket on a Sunday evening was productive of injury to public morals, or whether the people were less religious on that account? So far from this being the case, he would venture to say, that the indulgence in such
 348
 Mr. O'Connell  believed, many of the supporters of this Bill were not aware of the extent of its operation. Its provisions extended to Ireland and to Scotland too. To be sure, there was to be another Bill for Scotland alone; so that Scotland, by a piece of happy dexterity on the part of the hon. Baronet, was to have the benefit of a double legislation. It was an expression common in his profession, that there never was an Act of Parliament through which a coach and six might not be driven. But here was an Act of Parliament that would let the coach and six go free—that would clear the way for it on the Lord's-day; but woe to the unfortunate wight who required a cab on that day. He protested against this Bill. Its principle was odious—its principle was atrocious. It was altogether a denial of the great principle of Christianity, by giving a preference to the rich over the poor. If the hon. Baronet wanted to legislate, why did he not begin by compelling the wealthy classes of society to a due observance of the Sabbath? Why did not he set out with telling them, that they must not have a groom to curry their horses, or a cook to dress their turtle on that day? Why did he not take steps to prevent the holding of Cabinet Councils, and the giving of Cabinet dinners on the Sunday? Why did he not propose, that the Regent's-park and Hyde-park should be shut up—that there should be no rides in Rotten-row, or drives in the circle on the Sunday? Let the hon. Baronet, if he must legislate on the subject, begin at the right end, and he would deserve support. Oh! but no, the private equipage must be respected. And yet a man might have a very handsome carriage, but still require job-horses. But woe to the man who let, and the man who hired, job-horses. Both must suffer. But,
 354 355
 Lord Granville Somerset  suggested to the hon. Baronet to withdraw his Bill for the present. By adopting this course, he would by no means withdraw his pretensions to the support of the House on the introduction of a Bill of a more moderate and limited description. He, for one, felt bound to oppose the second reading of this Bill, although he would have willingly supported, and so he was sure would the majority of the House, any  bonâ fide
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  observed, there was scarcely ever before brought under the consideration of that House a question of greater importance than the present; and he hoped, that the House, in coming to a division, would at once say, aye or no upon the Bill, in order that the country at large might judge of the opinions of their Representatives, as to the due observance of the Sabbath. [" Oh, oh! Question 353
 Mr. O'Dwyer  opposed the Bill  in toto
 Mr. Harvey  took that opportunity of denying a statement made by a right hon. gentleman on a former occasion, that he was solicitor to the Trades' Unions. There was no foundation whatever for the statement. He wished it, nevertheless, to be understood, that he should not shrink from assuming that character, if he thought that his advice could be of any advantage to the labouring classes of the country. He regretted, that no Minister was present, as this was the third or fourth time the subject had been discussed without any practical result. These petitions ought to be disposed of in some way or other; for, to pass them over totally unnoticed, was only adding insult to the sufferings of the thousands of agricultural labourers who looked up to that House for justice and protection. From an examination of the legal merits of the question, and from an examination of the Acts of Parliament, and from the charge and sentence of the Judge, he was convinced, that these men were illegally convicted and unjustly sentenced. He was not disposed to place much weight on the opinion of lawyers, as such, in questions of equity and justice; but where they differed, the benefit of the doubts they had upon the law ought to be given to those who might come within its opera-
 313
 Mr. Ronayne  concurred most fully in what had fallen from the hon. Baronet who had just sat down. In no country was the Sabbath more religiously observed than in England. He was opposed to that wild spirit of hyper-legislation which appeared to be abroad, particularly with reference to the amusement and recreation of the more useful classes of society on the Lord's-day; but he particularly objected to the Bill now before the House. He was rather surprised, that the House should have been inclined to treat the subject with so much gravity, instead of meeting the Bill with that ridicule which it deserved. He felt inclined to treat it in that way, and would, therefore, say, with the poet—
 "Raise not your scythes, suppressors of our vice! Reforming saints, too delicately nice! By whose decrees, our sinful souls to save, No Sunday tankards foam; no barbers shave; But pots undrawn, and beards unmown, display Your holy reverence of the Sabbath-day."
 Mr. Edward Lytton Bulwer  said, he rose with great respect for the hon. Baronet's motives, and with the most cordial hatred for his theories of legislation, to move, that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. He agreed with the last speaker, that the hon. Baronet's Bill had been grossly misrepresented by those who asserted it would create too austere a veneration for the LORD'S Day; on the contrary, it would tend to bring the LORD'S Day into general disregard. He feared the hon. Baronet was a wolf in sheep's clothing—a philosopher in disguise, who aimed at endangering religion itself by showing to what gloomy and tyrannical purposes the name of religion might be applied. In the outset of the Bill, the hon. Baronet stated, that the laws on the Sabbath had become practically insufficient. When did any laws become impracticable? Why, when they were not suited to the spirit of the people. If the laws on the Sabbath were a dead letter, it was because they were already too severe. When on other branches of legislation—such, for instance, as the criminal code—the law lost its vigour, how did they restore it? Did they make it more severe? No! they made it more gentle. But the hon. Baronet, in his wisdom, would revive a law by making it more opposed to the genius of the times, and, by rendering it doubly severe, he would render it doubly inefficient. The hon. Baronet said, in his first clause, that the comforts and conscientious scruples of one class were not to be sacrificed to the supposed comfort and advantage of another. Yet all the rest of the Bill was ingeniously framed to contradict the assertion with
 317 Compound for sins they are inclined to, By damning those they have no mind to? 318 Deum 319 320 321
 Mr. Shaw  had but a single observation to make. The hon. and learned member for Dublin put the opposition to the measure upon a ground which could not be passed over without remark. The hon. and learned Member deprecated any legislative interference on such a subject; but although he did not approve of the present Bill, he must, notwithstanding what had fallen from the hon. and learned member for Dublin, contend, that it was the bounden duty of a Christian Legislature to adopt means for ensuring a proper observance of the Lord's-day. Beyond this, he did not think they should go. Sunday trading, and the profanation of the Sabbath, ought to be put down; but still, as the hon. and learned Gentleman had put forth a doctrine to which he (Mr. Shaw) could not subscribe, he should, if they went to a division, give his vote for the second reading of this Bill, knowing, as he did, that there was a demand, a want, and a sincere desire throughout the country for some efficacious law for enforcing a decent observance of the Lord's-day.
 Mr. Grote  was anxious, that the question should not go to a division without his entering his protest against the Motion. The Bill, if carried into a law, would be nothing more or less than a sentence of imprisonment upon the working classes of society upon the Sabbath. Nothing could justify the introduction of a measure of even much less severity than the present Bill. He saw no mark of a want of observance of the Sabbath amongst the people, nor was there any irregularity on that day beyond what was always to be found, and must always be expected, in a large metropolis. Religion, to be effective, must be spontaneous and sincere. It was useless to attempt driving the people into it. He would give his decided opposition to the Bill.
 Mr. Sinclair  earnestly and respectfully entreated his hon. friend to withdraw this Bill; the fate of which he had long foreseen, though he himself, out of respect for the principles, was prepared to support the second reading; and he was the more desirous to urge this request, because the division would afford to this country a very unfair index of the feelings of the House on this important subject, and would place many gentlemen in a false position; first, because it would be supposed (and most erroneously) that all who voted against this measure, were averse to every kind or degree of legislation as to Sabbath Observance; and next, because others, who supported the Bill, might be, with equal injustice, considered as inclined to adopt all its provisions. He (Mr. Sinclair) was bound to say, that he considered many of the clauses exceptionable, inconsistent, and impracticable. He would cheerfully concur with his hon. friend (to whose worth and exertions no man was more inclined to do the fullest justice) in putting an end to Sunday trading, and in thus placing all shopkeepers on an equal footing, by enforcing that prohibition to trade which they themselves were generally desirous to see established under adequate penalties. But when they came to the particular enactments, his hon. friend and he would very soon part company. He had often told his hon. friend, that by attempting too much, he would accomplish nothing—his advice had uniformly been in private, what he now ventured publicly to repeat,  quando id non possis quod velis, id saltem velis quod possis 352
 Mr. Goulburn  would follow the example of the hon. Member who had just spoken,
 350 351
 Mr. Plumptre  said, he was not in the habit of obtruding his opinions at any length upon the House, but he wished to say a few words upon this Bill. They had been told, that gentlemen would feel very odd and dissatisfied if they found the Thames shut up against them, or were to be debarred the use of pot-houses and stage-coaches on the Lord's-day. Now, they would find amongst the petitioners in favour of this measure many lightermen and others connected with the river, and also many post-masters and post-boys, who were anxious to make the Sabbath a day of rest and of religious observance. He
 349 Question
 Mr.Poulter  said, that, in rising to oppose this Bill, he did it in the most anxious desire to support any measure which might ever be presented to this House, the effect of which should be to promote the real interests of religion, without violating the just liberties of society, and especially of the poorer and more humble classes of it. He opposed it, also, in a sincere and most confident conviction, that, if this Bill were to be lost, the whole of this most important and moss interesting subject would be
 327 328 l l 329
 Mr. Roebuck  thought it his duty at once to declare, that he was against any legislation on the matter at all. That might be considered a bold declaration, and would probably subject him to the severe censure of a portion of the House. He, however, did not hesitate to make the avowal; and he did so, because be conscientiously believed, that the Bill was nothing more nor less than a branch of persecution. Entertaining that feeling, he should be unworthy of a seat in the House if he did not at once announce his inveterate hostility to any measure on the subject. He would suppose, that the House, and not a party of religious devotees, were to draw the line. When would they say, that they had gone far enough? How would they determine that religion went so far and no further? They must conclude, that the line would be drawn by the dominant party. Suppose this House took on itself to say every man should, every day, attend five sacraments. Why, if they passed the Bill, should they not say, that every individual should attend daily some house of prayer; and why not also say, that they should then take the sacrament of the Lord's Supper? Their consciences, truth, good feeling, and justice, told them that between God and man, man was not fit to legislate. How was an individual justified in saying to his fellow-man, "Your
 331 332 333 334 335
 Mr. Roebuck  presented a petition from Chard in favour of the Dorchester Unionists.
 Mr. Wilks  was for sending the Bill to a Committee, for the purpose of framing a measure which might afford protection on the Sabbath to the poorer classes, but which would not at the same time abridge their rational pleasures. Enjoyment they should be permitted to partake, without violating the one day set apart for the observance of religion. He should support the second reading, notwithstanding all the positiveness of assertion on theological points (unfit for discussion in that House), in which some hon. Members had indulged. They had shown that in these as in other matters a little learning was a dangerous thing. It was strange! that they should have forgotten that, from the Creation a weekly day of rest and grateful adoration was enjoyed—that in patriarchal times, when the hoary sage was the chieftain and the priest, such a day witnessed the abstinence from journeying—the social sacrifice and domestic rest—and was enjoined in the Decalogue for permanent observance; it formed not a mere part of the Mosaical and ritual economy, but obtained the eternal sanction, and its violation ranked with the most injurious crimes. Ill had they read the sacred Canon, who had not there found frequent exhortations to public worship, and those devout associations which the so setting apart of one day in the week could alone effect; as well as the most interesting examples of the benefits which such dedication of their time supplied. The Lord's Day was, in the earliest ages, scrupulously, but cheerfully observed, That observance was amongst the distinctive lineaments of the Christian
 340 341
 Mr. Pease  would be the last man in that House to stifle discussion, and particularly on a subject like that of the Dorchester Unionists; but he put it to the House whether, after the full discussion that had taken place on the subject, and after a day had been set apart entirely for the purpose of receiving petitions in their behalf, the present discussion was not highly inconvenient.
 Mr. Potter : When the hon. Baronet moved for leave to bring in a Bill for the better Observance of the Sabbath, it was evident to me, that he intended to renew his Bill of last Session; under that impres-
 322 323 324 d d d 325 326
 Mr. Rigby Wason  thought, that a higher degree of punishment had been awarded than the nature of the offence merited; nevertheless, it was quite impossible for the Judge to have pronounced any other sentence. It was for the consideration of the Crown, whether, in such a case, the
 314
 Mr. Slaney  admitted, that the Labour-rate Employment Bill was only used as a palliative, but still any one who had read that interesting but melancholy volume, the Report of the Poor-law Commissioners, would see how injudicious it would be to re-enact the Act in question. He thought it would be most advisable
 311
 Mr. Estcourt  said, the principles of the Bill had been quite mistaken by the hon. Member who spoke last. By one of the clauses it would be found, that the plan could not be adopted in any parish without the consent of a large majority, he believed two-thirds or three-fourths, of the rate-payers. He approved of the measure as a temporary one, though he admitted the principle not to be a good one; but the hon. Members ought to re-collect that we were in an artificial state of things, and were to get out of our difficulties, or at least mitigate them, as well as we could.
 Mr. Gisborne  said, that he should have liked to have spoken immediately after the hon. member for Dover, because he would thereby have been saved much in regard to what he had to say upon this measure. The hon. member for Staffordshire said, that this Bill did not go to interfere with the amusements of the poor or working classes;—but how did the Bill begin? Why, by shutting up the noble river Thames on the Sabbath—by prohibiting every boat, barge, or steam-boat from plying—and preventing every one from taking advantage of that beautiful scenery which the river presented. This was the first provision to be enforced, and one, the effect of which must strike every one who would take the trouble to look at the clause which related to the hiring of vessels, &c. The bill of last year prohibited persons from beginning a journey on Sunday; but the present Bill went, not only to prevent persons from starting on the Sunday,—it did more; it actually stopped those conveyances which might be in motion on the Sabbath. Now, he knew that there was a fast day-coach which ran from Manchester to London, called the Day Coach. This coach reached town generally about half-past eleven at night; and suppose the coach to be delayed by a fall of snow, or by the bad state of the roads, it would be stopped very likely somewhere about Finchley, if the journey thus impeded occurred on a Saturday night. For his own part, he should oppose the Bill, because he thought its practical working would be highly injurious. It enabled any Justice of the Peace, &c., to seize cattle travelling on a Sabbath. The justice also had the power to detain the cattle till the Wednesday following, unless the party should pay a fine of 5 l l 342 l l l l
 Mr. Gisborne , in explanation, denied having turned the Bill into ridicule, or having treated it with contempt. If some of the clauses of the Bill led to ridiculous conclusions, it was no fault of his.
 Sir Andrew Agnew  moved, that the Bill for the better Observance of the Sabbath be read a second time.
 Sir Andrew Agnew  said, in reply, that
 356
 Mr. Hall  said, if he had found any of the clauses practicable, he would have given his consent to the second reading of the Bill; but he found them very much the reverse: it appeared to him that the effect of the Bill, if carried, would be to injure to a very great extent the internal trade, as well as injure the health of the country. As regarded the moral effect of the Bill, he quite agreed with those who thought that if the working classes of the people were deprived of the means of recruiting themselves by taking their pleasure abroad, they would of necessity be driven to pass their time in the public-houses. Then, with respect to the commercial operation of the measure, there was one point in particular to which he wished to call the attention of the House. In many manufactories, for example in iron-foundries, unless the furnaces were constantly kept up, the progress of the works was entirely stopped. The conse-
 330 l l
 Sir Charles Burrell  wished to have avoided a reply, but it was rendered necessary by the observations of some hon. Members, who were not acquainted with the provisions of the Bill. In allusion to one observation, he would merely say, that not only were the inhabitants of large towns not interested in the Bill, but they were shut out from its operation, inasmuch as towns embracing more than one parish could not adopt its provisions. The hostility of the hon. member for Yorkshire was therefore founded more on prejudice than reason. He was aware of the objections made to the principle by the Report of the Poor-law Commissioners, but he hoped to have an opportunity of showing, that the replies made to the inquiries of the Chancellor of the Exchequer were founded in erroneous and theoretical views, and not on any practical basis. With respect to the clergy being unjustly affected by the Act, he should take occasion on the second reading to show that a great many of them were favourable to its provisions. He should be prepared to show, that the tithe-owner was not unjustly treated under the Bill. He must, nevertheless, observe that when tithe owners, whether lay or clerical, took up their tithes in kind, they were justly required to find their proportion of employment for the parishioners, as much as the landowner, in a similar ratio to that which required the tithe-owner to contribute to the Poor-rates, whether by himself or his lessee. His esteemed friend, the member for the University of Oxford, had made an objection to the principle of the Bill; but if he would only refer to the Act 43rd Elizabeth, c. 2, which was an Act passed to relieve by work the labouring classes thrown out of employ by the suppression of monasteries, &c., he would find it was provided, "that the overseers of the poor shall take order from two or more Magistrates, from time to time, for setting children to work, &c.; also for setting to work all persons married or unmarried, having no means to maintain themselves; and also to raise, weekly or otherwise (by
 312
 Sir Charles Burrell  presented a petition from the Justices of the peace acting in and for the extensive divisions of Guildford and Farnham, in the county of Surrey, and resident gentry and farmers occupying lands therein. The petitioners, stated that they had been witnesses of the numerous beneficial effects produced in very many parishes within their several divisions by the Act of Parliament passed in the second and third years of his present Majesty, entitled "An Act for the better Employment of Labourers in Agricultural Parishes;" that, in such parishes as had availed themselves of the provisions of the said Act, many industrious labourers had accordingly been better employed, having been withdrawn from various degrading and unprofitable pauper occupations, and restored to their natural employment in agricultural affairs; whereby the cultivation of the land had been greatly advanced, and the labourers rendered contented by increased wages and more congenial avocations—facts which they confidently asserted had been proved to their conviction by the great diminution of the business of the petty sessions; where, prior to the passing of the said Act, applications made by labourers for parochial relief or employment engrossed a large portion of their time but which had
 308 l s 309
 Sir Daniel Sandford  must enter his most decided protest against not only the details, but the preamble of this Bill, which, he asserted, would be detrimental rather than serviceable to the interests of religion. It was not necessary, that he should enter into any explanation of the reasons which induced him to oppose the further progress of this measure; but he could assure the House, that in the vote he meant to give, he was actuated by as sincere a love of Christianity as any man in the country. He came down, however, not so much to oppose the present Motion as to move the rejection of the Scotch Bill; and if the House should decide upon allowing that measure to go into Committee, he begged to say, that he was fully determined to contend the ground, inch by inch, with its supporters.
 Sir Oswald Mosley , in seconding the motion of the hon. Baronet, thought that it would be highly impertinent for him to offer any lengthened remarks in favour of this Bill, after the numerous petitions which had just been presented, and it would be equally impertinent in any one who should also assert, that the Bill had not excited the attention of the kingdom, when it might be said that no subject had come under their cognizance for years which had excited so much attention, or on which so many petitions had been presented, except the Slavery Abolition and the Reform Bill. In seconding the Motion of the hon. Baronet, he did so in the confident hope, that the House would treat the hon. Baronet with more respect than they had done the preceding year. He thought the hon. Baronet's intentions had been widely misunderstood in that House, and as much misinterpreted out of doors; for it seemed as if, looking at the marginal notes, hon. Members had seen the word "penalty" only, and had accordingly named the Bill a Bill of Pains and Penalties. Let him ask, how could the provisions of any law be enforced without penalties; but to avoid entering on the discussion of these matters now, he would only say, that the Bill might be very greatly altered and amended in the Committee; and he should pass to the consideration of the principles on which the Bill was founded. In a Christian country, such as this was, the due observance of the Sabbath was a primary subject of consideration. He might be told, that there already existed legislative enactments for enforcing that observance; but he, as a Magistrate of many years'
 315 It does 316
 Mr. Mark Phillips  said, that to his knowledge, this Bill, if carried into a law, would be productive of great injury to the manufacturing districts, and especially to the iron trade. It would occasion a loss of wages to the men to the extent, according to the opinions of the best-informed persons on the subject, of not less than twenty-five per cent. The effect produced by it of keeping commodities from the market was very serious. Even now the consequence of the detention of fish would frequently occasion a variation in the fish-market of from fifty to seventy-five per cent, in the course of three or four hours, and, of course, a
 344
 Sir Ronald Ferguson  said, it appeared to him wonderful, that any Member of a free House of Commons could have ventured to introduce this Bill, and that any hon. Member should have taken its part. He agreed with the hon. member for Derby, that this Bill could not be amended, and that it was "incurable;" and he was sure that the House would not allow it to go into a Committee, as they had already in fact, pronounced judgment upon it. He entreated the House to throw out the Bill, and he regretted, that it had ever been allowed to be read a first time. He would beg leave to allude to a letter which he had received from Scotland on this subject; and with reference to the Scotch Bill he would observe that its provisions were befitting the dark and barbarous ages only. As, however, that measure was not before the House, he did not think it would be right to state any thing further upon it; but he would take the opportunity of saying, that he trusted the fate of this Bill would be such as would not induce the hon. Baronet to bring the Scotch measure forward. He would, however, read to the House the letter which he had received from one of the oldest clergymen in Scotland, who was well known to the hon. member for Cupar. This letter was not intended to be read to the House, but, in justice to the Scotch clergy, he could not forbear communicating its contents. The letter was dated from Cupar, and stated the opinion of the Presbytery of Cupar to be hostile to the measure, and the writer hoped, that the good sense of the House of Commons would save them from this crude legislation, which was, as far as regarded that part of the country, uncalled for. The writer further expressed the hope, that if he (Sir Ronald Ferguson) took any share in the debate, he would not approve of the measure. This, then, was the opinion of a Scotch clergyman!—this was the opinion of the Presbytery of Cupar! For his own part he should term this—a Bill
 347
 Mr. Williams Wynn  thought, that the House could not advantageously discuss this question theologically, as some of the greatest divines and most eminent men of all ages had entertained different opinions upon the observance of the Christian Sabbath. Upon that question, in our own times, Paley and Horsley had taken different sides; and it could not in his opinion, be settled by that House. He would take the question simply as it stood at present. What new provisions then did the Bill enact? What were the great features of the Bill? The prohibition of travelling on Sunday, the prohibition of the sale of food, or refreshment, on Sunday,—were the two chief provisions of the Bill. Had either of these provisions been defended by any one Member who had expressed his determination of supporting the second reading? He had not heard one Gentleman advance a single argument in defence of these enactments; but they had concurred in reprobating them. Certain exceptions were made with respect to travelling; as, for instance, in the case of charity, piety, and necessity. With one or all of these objects in view, a man would be suffered to travel on Sunday. But how was the object of the traveller to be ascertained? For that difficulty the Bill contained no provision; and if a traveller appeared on the road on Sunday, he would have to argue and explain to each inn-keeper and turnpike-keeper whether the purpose of his journey was one of piety, charity, or necessity. With respect to trading, he had heard no argu-
 345 346
 Mr. Clay  did not think, that the country Magistrates who had possessed the Administration of the Poor-laws for a number of years had proved themselves to be such good managers of the poor, as that the management should be continued to them. He was opposed to the principle of a labour-rate, and he entreated hon. Members to see the Report of the Poor-law Commissioners on the subject. It was proved by that Report that the Labour-rate Act had been attended with most injurious consequences.
 Lord Morpeth  would not waste the time of the House in subtle argument or useless declamation; but in his opinion the proposed measure trenched too much on the proper domain of conscience. He agreed with the hon. Gentleman who last addressed them on the impropriety of interfering with the out-of-door amusements of the people which were not inconsistent with decorum. He would not legislate against the game of cricket; "He'd" stop no chariot, and board no barge." If they interfered with public conveniences, they would necessarily render the operation of the Bill partial and unjust, as well as inflict a serious moral and physical injury on large masses of the population. He differed from the hon. and learned member
 339
 Lord Sandon  regretted, as a friend to the alleged object of the measure, that the hon. Baronet should have introduced a bill, every clause of which had already been rejected by the House. The course pursued by the hon. Baronet was highly injudicious, and had exposed the whole subject to a great deal of ridicule and levity, which ought not fairly to be cast upon it. No gentleman should venture to legislate upon sacred subjects without much caution and consideration. He certainly did believe the labouring people required some protection. The tyranny of wealth over labour in this country was so great as to require some protection for labour against its extravagant demands. So far as preventing labour on the Sabbath-day was concerned, he was ready to legislate, but no further; and he most anxiously entreated the hon. Baronet to withdraw his Bill.
 Mr. M. Hill  wished again to draw the attention of the House to the case of this nobleman, who had suffered great injustice by having his estates in Alsace, of a very large yearly value, confiscated by the French at the time of the first French Revolution. Subsequently, a large sum of money was paid over by the French government to this country, to compensate such English subjects as had suffered by the Revolution, among whom was specifically mentioned the Baron de Bode. Notwithstanding this, not a farthing had been received by that nobleman, although he (Mr. M. Hill) could incontrovertibly prove his right to the amount as a suffering British subject, and that a specific sum had been paid over by the French government for the specific object of compensating the noble Baron. The Baron de Bode was said to be not one of those persons whom the treaty intended to relieve; he should like to know on what ground such an opinion was founded. The Baron de Bode was given to understand, that there was high authority against him, viz.—the judgment pronounced by the Privy Council, in the analogous case of Drummond. The fact was, however, that the case in question
 398
 The Solicitor General  denied, that this was a trust in the hands of the Government, giving a claim to the Baron de Bode. The Act relating to all such claims gave a power of appeal from the decision of the Commissioners to the Privy Council, whose judgment was to be final. So far from the case not having received due attention, and been fully inquired into, it had run through all the modes of investigation that the Act of Parliament authorised. In 1822, a further period of ten or eleven months was given to the Baron de Bode, to procure fresh evidence to perfect his claim if he could. It could scarcely, then, be said, that he had not sufficient time, particularly when it was remembered, that the claim was launched in 1816. These facts did not, of course, preclude the House from making any grant, if it saw occasion, out of the public money; but he must say, that he considered them to conclude the question of right. He would submit to the House, whether a Committee was a proper tribunal to determine questions of law that had already received final adjudication? Unless the case was a very strong one, this alone would be an answer to the Motion. The Commissioners were charged with ignorance of the nature of the Baron de Bode's claim; but, according to a pamphlet, which he (the Solicitor
 399
 Colonel Davies  agreed with the hon. and learned Member who last addressed the House in expressing his strong disapprobation of the Motion originally brought forward, as one calculated to infringe the elective rights of the people. At the same time he thought it an object of the greatest importance, that the Ministers of the Crown should have  ex-officio
 Mr. Edward Lytton Bulwer  was of opinion, that this was a question, above all others, in which there ought to exist no misinterpretation on the part of the public as to the motives of hon. Gentlemen. It should not be brought forward by a Tory, lest it might be suspected to be a sly invasion of popular rights; neither should it be brought forward by a Whig, however liberal his views, who was in the habit of supporting the present Ministry. It was far better, that such a recommendation should come from an independent Member, attached to neither of the two parties, and, therefore, he had undertaken to propose an amendment, to which the hon. Baronet had alluded, the principle of which was, that Ministers should have a right to seats in this House by virtue of their office, but that they should not enjoy the privilege of voting, unless returned by some popular constituency. He was not satisfied with the proposition of the hon. Baronet, because he thought, while it violated a great theoretical principle, it did not remove the worst dangers of the present system. It violated a great theoretical principle, because it was obvious, that when a constituency chose an independent member of Parliament, they often chose him on account of his very independence. They might be dissatisfied with a government, they might elect a member exactly because he sympathized with them in that dissatisfaction, and the instant he was returned he might accept office, and for the next six years retain a seat, enforcing, as a Minister, that very set of opinions which he had obtained that seat by opposing as a member. It was a fiction to call such a man a representative of the people. He might have good reasons for his change; he might be an honest minister; but he was not a true representative. The principle of the Constitution was, not that the people should choose Ministers, but that they should have an immediate opportunity of deciding whether or not they wished their representatives to become
 387 suppositos cineri doloso 388 dii minores 389 bonâ fide ex officio 390 391
 Mr. Littleton  said, that, having originally introduced this matter to the House some years since, he must declare that he still entertained the same impressions on this case which he then did. There might be, perhaps, some question as to the grounds upon which the Baron's original claims was attempted to be established, but he apprehended there could not be a question in respect to his reversionary claim; and, indeed, he (Mr. Littleton) had never heard any argument brought forward which could go to remove the opinion which he had entertained in the first instance upon this ground. He had felt an interest in the case from the fact of the Baron de Bode's family, on the mother's side, being one of the oldest and most respectable in Staffordshire. He knew, that the Baron had suffered much from pecuniary wants—that his family were residing in Russia—that he had experienced great misfortunes, and that he had followed this claim up with great
 401
 Mr. Littleton  thought, that the absence of those hon. Members who usually took great interest in all subjects affecting the welfare of Ireland might be taken as a sufficient indication, that they did not think such a measure expedient at the present time, or at least in its present shape. He was the last man not to admit the great advantages which a liberal system of public education would confer on Ireland; nor was there any question which he would support with greater spirit or with greater zeal, than the system of national education in Ireland, introduced by his right hon. friend near him (Mr. Stanley), which already had exercised a most powerful and beneficial influence in that country. 140,000 children were now educated in these schools, and he believed, that the steps already taken were only preparatory to more extended measures for the diffusion of its advantages. He did not wish to call on the House to give any opinion on the question. He thought it could be more advantageously discussed to-morrow, when the grant to the Irish Education Commission would be proposed; and he believed that, under all circumstances, he should best consult the feeling of the House by moving the previous question.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  said, the absence of Irish Members might be accounted for by the fact, that the hon. Member's
 405
 Mr. Barron  attributed the absence of Irish Members on his Motion to a very different cause. It was because he voted only for men when he thought them right, and against them when he thought them wrong. It was because he would not suffer himself to be influenced by factious motives. Whenever, therefore, he came there to fight even in the same cause for which they fought, he was not supported by them, because he would not belong to their faction. Not wishing to run counter to the sense of the House, he would withdraw his Motion.
 Mr. Barron  rose to bring forward his Motion with regard to Education in Ireland. He was desirous of inducing the Commissioners to follow up a more liberal scheme than their now narrow means would permit. The means for effecting this would be found in the tithes in Ireland. The contrast between Ireland and America with regard to national education would best exhibit the deficiency of the former country. The number of persons going to school in America was one in four; in Norway and Sweden one in five; in the Netherlands one in five; Switzerland one in eight; in the Southern part of Germany one in four; whilst in Ireland it was but one in forty. This was a lamentable state of things, and to this were owing many of the misfortunes by which the country was afflicted. In every country where education was neglected, in the degree of that neglect was the debasement, the brutality, and almost the savageness of the country. It was from the want of such education, that the government of Ireland was found so difficult, and the greatest advantage would result from the establishment of national schools in that country, to which all those who availed themselves of them should pay in proportion to their means. To equalize her with the growing intelligence of Europe, Ireland would want 3,500 schools; whilst, in fact, several parishes, varying in population from 7,000 to 10,000, were without any schools. To furnish the necessary degree of education, a sum much more
 403 s d s l l l 404
 Mr. Richards  seconded the Motion. He agreed with his hon. friend, that the revenues of the Church could not be more beneficially applied, nor in a manner more consistent with the objects for the promotion of which they were originally bestowed. He could only attribute the thinness of the House on such a question to the confidence which he supposed was felt by hon. Members in the anxiety of Ministers to support any measure calculated to improve the condition of Ireland.
 Mr. Roebuck  was quite opposed to the principle, that a Member, on accepting office, should not vacate his seat in Parliament, but it did not therefore follow, that Ministers of the Crown should not have  ex-officio
 Mr. Hume , before the sense of the House was taken on it, begged leave to ask one question of the noble Lord (Lord Althorp). Before doing so, he would premise, that no lapse of time ought to interfere with the justice of the claim. He would ask the noble Lord, if other claims which had been shut out on the score of time had not been afterwards admitted? If then other cases had been admitted, was it not very hard that this, which was  primâ facie 402
 Dr. Lushington  expressed his regret, that such propositions should have been made by the two hon. Members who had just spoken. He would vote both against the Motion and the Amendment, as it was not possible to make such a Motion palatable by any Amendment whatever. The principle of both was, to deprive the people, the electors of the kingdom, of one of their most valuable constitutional privileges; and the abandonment of this constitutional privilege would be the greatest insult that could be offered to the people by the Reformed Parliament, for it would be equivalent to saying, that the electors of the empire were unfit for, and unable to fulfil, those newly-received rights and duties which had been restored to them. Would hon. Gentlemen, then, venture to say, that the electors under the provisions of the Reform Bill were not as capable of exercising their judgment in the choice of their exercising as the constituencies, so to call them, of Old Sarum and the other boroughs which had been placed in schedule A. It had been urged by the hon. Member, that the privilege exercised by the people had in former times proved ineffectual. Now, however, it had acquired consistency and strength. And what was the result? Why, the moment it began to be efficacious and to produce those consequences, which it was considered desirable it should produce in former times, that moment came the hon. member for Lincoln to deprive, as far as he might, the people of England of the privilege they had of old enjoyed; and upon what principle was this?—on the principle of distrust in the people of England?—on the principle, that they were not able to judge for themselves in the choice of their representatives? The hon. member for Lincoln had, in fact, made a speech worthy of the highest Tory in the very worst of Tory times. He would say, let Government appoint whom they liked to office, but let the people decide who were fit to represent them. To what, he asked, were they indebted for this proposition—one, by the way, which could not fail to work serious injury to the constitu-
 392
 Mr. Ewart , in seconding the Motion, said, he thought a case was made out for giving this matter a re-hearing. He did not approve, under ordinary circumstances, of appointing Committees for the purpose of referring legal decisions to them for revision, but he thought it better that such a course should be adopted in this case, than that it should be altogether neglected. He did not hesitate to say, that he believed the case had been unjustly decided.
 Mr. Pollock  said, they were told, that it would require a strong case to justify the appointment of the Committee. They had a strong case. For the sake of the honour of the country, if there were a surplus after paying all the claims about which there was no difficulty, and if there were any miscarriage with respect to other claims, to their liquidation ought that surplus to be applied. The Baron de Bode was a British subject, born in England, of an English mother, his father being a German; of this there was no doubt. Nor was there any doubt that the Baron de Bode was possessed of some property, which was confiscated by France. Doubtless, also, a large sum was assigned over to the British Government to liquidate the claims of British subjects on account of the confiscation. It was beyond a doubt, too, that a large balance of the sum so assigned remained unappropriated. Equally clear was it, that a Commission was appointed to give those persons who had not perfected their claims, the benefit of further time. Now, he believed, that the Baron's case had not been understood; he would even say, that in his humble judgment, it had not been correctly decided. Then there were grounds sufficient for a further inquiry. The Baron de Bode's present claim was said to be inconsistent with that which he presented to the Commission; but let the House not forget, that the Baron was a soldier not versed in technical terms. Was he not to have his claim fairly decided, because he did not understand the full meaning of the terms, "heirship" and "remainder"? He pursued his claim according to his best judgment. He presented it; told them, that he was in possession, that his property was confiscated because he was a British subject, and he claimed his share of the sum paid as indemnity. The Commissioners asked him how he was entitled? He replied, that his father ceded, and he proved the ces-
 400
 Mr. Ward  said, that to him the speech of the hon. member for Lincoln was incomprehensible. He could not enter into the hon. Member's refinements. He was strongly opposed both to the original Motion and to the Amendment; believing, as he did, that either must weaken the connecting link which bound the people to their representatives, and tend to raise an irresponsible power in the House. This tie he had hoped was drawn closer by the Reform Bill—it was at least more valuable, and he was not prepared to abandon it because Gentlemen whose opinions he for the most part shared were in power. For the sake of their immediate convenience, he was not prepared to cast aside his old convictions, and to place in that House men who were wholly irre-responsible. France and Belgium had been referred to but he was yet to learn, that they had got so much the start of us in the forms of their constitution and the arrangements of their assemblies, that we should be led to take example from the peculiar provisions of their popular institutions. He could not see why that expression of public opinion—in one, too, of its ancient and unobjectionable forms which in this country had hitherto carried everything which had been generally considered beneficial to the commonweal without force—should now be repressed; and he sincerely hoped, that both Motion and Amendment would be rejected by the House.
 Sir Robert Heron  moved, that the 6th of Anne, c. 7, be read. This having been done, the hon. Baronet proceeded to say, that, in bringing forward the Motion of which he had given notice, he wished to correct an impression on the subject which had by some means or other got abroad. It had been stated in the newspapers, and elsewhere, out of that House, that he brought forward his present motion with the sanction of his Majesty's Ministers; but this was not the fact, for, up to the period of giving his notice, it was not known to the Government that he ever contemplated submitting such a motion. Having made this observation, he would proceed, as briefly as possible, to lay the grounds on which his Motion was founded before the House. As he did not wish to occupy their time by unnecessary remarks, it would be sufficient for him to say, that the principle which the Bill he proposed to introduce was intended to establish had been constantly acted upon up to the time of the Reformation and afterwards, though not always so regularly. The two Acts that had placed the matter on its present footing, were the 6th of Queen Anne and the 41st of George 3rd. Before the Reform of Parliament, no member of this House, or of any former House, would have conceived the idea of disapproving of any portion of the check the people either possessed, or were supposed to possess, upon the influence of the Crown, or upon the appointment of its Ministers; but now that Parliament was reformed,—now that the people were substantially represented
 383 384 ex-officio ex-officio 385 386
 Lord Althorp , being loudly called for, rose, and said, that he considered the question one of the greatest importance both to the House and to the nation. It had been objected to both the measures proposed, that they would have the effect of making a great change in the principles of the Constitution. The objection he had against agreeing to either proposition did not, he must admit, arise from any apprehension of that sort. There were two propositions before the House—the original Motion of the hon. member for Peterborough, which hon. Member wished to do away with the existing regulation, that a Member on accepting office under the Crown must of necessity vacate his seat; and the Amendment of the hon. member for Lincoln, who wished, that the acceptor of certain offices under the Crown should  ex officio 395 Mr. Hume: 396 397
 Lord Althorp  was understood to say, that a certain time had been given to persons claiming upon the fund—that the Baron de Bode had put in his claim, and had been heard before the commission appointed for appropriating the fund, which commission decided against him. It appeared the Baron complained that he had not been able to put his claim in its strongest light, and that therefore the decision was unjust; but surely from 1816, the period at which he first claimed, to 1822, he had full time to make out his case. It was urged, that the Baron being a soldier, and unacquained with the forms of law, should not be tied down to the technicalities of legal proof. He (Lord Althorp) did not think this a doctrine which should be acceded to. If, through the negligence of legal advisers, or any other cause, the proper forms were not adopted, the person so failing (no matter what his profession) should suffer the same consequences as others. He certainly should not accede to this principle, nor yield to the granting a Committee on these grounds, more especially as the case had been already decided by a sufficient tribunal.
 Lord Althorp , having been asked the question, would only remark that there was a distinction between the cases. A certain period had been fixed for putting in the claims on this fund, and within the prescribed period the Baron had applied. His claim had been heard and adjudicated. The others had not applied, being ignorant of the limits as to time, and the allowance was therefore made.
 Colonel Evans  was of opinion, that the feeling of attachment which existed in Ireland towards the pensioners would prevent the Secretary at War from carrying the removal to Chelsea into effect.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the Bill which the right hon. Secretary for Ireland wished to amend now, had much more substantial defects than those which he had just referred to. The House ought to know, that that Bill had given no relief whatever to the Roman Catholic Dissenters in Ireland, except to relieve them from the payment of Church-cess. The fittest way to proceed would be to repeal the Act of the last reign, the 7th of George 4th, known by the name of Goulburn's Act, and to leave the collection of Vestry-cess to the remedy of Common-law. He would, however, be contented with the repeal of the clause in the Act 7th George 4th which gave the vestry the right of maintaining any assessment against which no appeal was lodged at the original imposition, or, if that were refused him, he should move hereafter, on the introduction of a clause, that no Vestry-cess should
 424
 Dr. Lefroy  said, that, on reviewing the conditions which were contained in the Bill then before the House, the question was, not only whether with regard to the Church the terms were fair and equal, hot also whether they were so to the possessor, who held his property in tithes as sacredly, and by as good a tenure, as any gentleman held his estates. The next question for the House to weigh was, whether the application of the funds to be raised by the sale of the rent charge was not a violation of justice. By the operation of the present Bill, a living worth 200 l l s 441 l l s l l l
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that if the learned Gentleman (Mr. Sheil) had addressed the House with considerable vehemence, at least he did not trespass on its patience at any great length; and without following the hon. Member's example with respect to the vehemence of his speech, he would endeavour to imitate him in the more praiseworthy quality of brevity, and not detain the House for any unnecessary length of time. The learned Member had taken four grounds of objection to the Bill, and, of the whole four, not one was ex-
 459 460 Mr. Sheil made an observation Shed: 461 s d d d d s s 462 463 d d 464
 Mr. Walker  said, many Members had come in since the Motion to postpone the second reading of this Bill for one week had been made by his friend, the member for the county of Wexford; he, therefore, wished to call the attention of the House back to the real question before it, especially as the debate had for some time taken a turn quite foreign to it. The
 465 466 l l 467 l ad valorem ad valorem l d l s s d l ad valorem 468 quoad ad valorem l 469 l l s s d s s 470
 Mr. O'Connell  begged to remind the hon. member for Wexford (Mr. Carew) that in the event of his Amendment being negatived, it would still be competent to any hon. Member to move the adjournment of the debate. He thought the hon. Member could not be aware of this when he refused to withdraw his Amendment.
 Mr. O'Connell  regretted, that it was not in his power to acquiesce in the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman, though he should be most happy to accommodate him. Such, however, was his opinion of the Bill, that he would take the sense of the House upon every question referring to it put from the Chair. As soon as the sense of the House was taken upon the Amendment, he should certainly move the adjournment of the debate.
 Colonel Conolly  thought, that many of the hon. Members who had preceded him had gone very wide of the question. For his own part he thought this would be the final adjustment of the question of tithes, and he hoped that the Government would not be driven from their determination by menaces from any quarter whatever. He regretted, that many hon. Gentlemen mixed up this question with that of appropriation, and he could not agree with his hon. friend, the member for Kildare, in condemning the Composition Act. He approved greatly of the first Tithe Composition Bill, and thought if the right hon. Gentleman who had brought it forward had never performed any other public service he still would have ample cause for pride. When the hon. Member talked of an average payment of tithes he would ask him to remember the great inequalities and the injustice which must necessarily result from such a measure. He himself paid in one instance 4 s d d d
 Colonel Conolly  supported the prayer of the petition, and, though favourable to economy, thought that there was a point at which it ought to stop.
 Colonel Davies  felt an anxious desire to see the unfortunate condition of Ireland ameliorated, and looked upon the present measure as one of the greatest importance in that view. In fact, the tranquillity of the empire might be said to depend on it. If he rightly understood the Bill, it was fraught with injustice: its operation would be most unfair, because it was calculated to transfer a particular burthen from those who properly bore it, to another class having no right whatever to be saddled with it. It amounted to nothing less than a direct and gross act of spelia-
 433 434
 Sir Alexander Hope  could not bring himself to agree with the right hon. the Secretary at War, that the benevolent institutions of Chelsea and Kilmainham Schools were not productive of much advantage. The breaking up of those schools would violate the principles of charity, and could not be compensated by any wretched motives of economy. The destruction of Kilmainham Hospital would be attended with much personal inconvenience, and could not fail to wound the feelings of Irish pride.
 Colonel Perceval  said, the House should bear in mind that the letter referred to by the hon. Gentleman was written by the same noble Lord who had recommended the people of Ireland to "agitate, agitate, agitate." He, therefore, for one, placed as much value on the document as he did upon the recommendation. It was quite clear, that if his Majesty's Government had suffered themselves to be led away by the advice which they received from the Marquess of Anglesey, the consequence would have been a revolution in Ireland. He would not follow the hon. Gentleman through all his extravagance, but he must deny, that the revenue of the Church derived from tithes amounted to any such sum as 1,700,000 l l l l l l 450 ignis fatuus l
 Colonel Perceval  was sorry to see so little attention paid to the general feeling of the people of Ireland by the Government.
 Mr. Dominick Browne  was of opinion, that this Bill would go to injure, not the Church of Ireland, but the national pro-
 451 Regium Donum
 Mr. Ronayne  inquired of the hon. member for Wexford, whether he intended to withdraw his Motion; if not, he thought the debate should be adjourned.
 Mr. Ronayne  moved an adjournment of the debate.
 Mr. Ellice  said, that the proceeding complained of for reducing the establishment, was proposed by him with a view to what he conceived the principles of economy in the service, and the real interests of the army. Having submitted his views on the subject, it was for the
 421 l l
 Mr. Littleton  said, that the reason why he had yesterday suggested a Committee on this Act was, that certain Amendments might be introduced into it,—some to give it greater effect, others to correct errors, and a few to extend its provisions. The principal Amendment related to the Vestry-cess. It had been universally understood, that the Vestry-cess of 1833 was to be discharged by the Commissioners; in fact, that they were to pay all after the passing of the Bill. The Bill had been unexpectedly delayed, and did not receive the Royal Assent before Easter, so that the Easter Vestry-cess became due before the Commissioners were empowered. A clause ought to have been inserted, giving the measure a retrospective operation, and to remedy this omission the present proceeding was necessary. It would be remembered, that it was understood that Government was, in the first instance, to give pecuniary assistance to the Commissioners on the credit of their funds, with a view to the purposes of the Church Temporalities' Act. The charges they
 423 l l l l l l l l l l
 Mr. Littleton:>  If the hon. member for Middlesex had been in his place at the proper time, he would have heard the amount stated.
 Mr. Littleton  must beg leave to occupy the attention of the House for a very few minutes. It was quite true, that many Bills had been at different times submitted to him, but they generally contained principles which were quite inadmissible, and calculated to entrench upon the rights of property. Much as had been said upon the subject before the House, numerous as were the objections made against the plan which had been proposed, yet it was very difficult to find any one to suggest anything better. It was true, that the hon. member for Kildare had suggested a plan, and one which, from his position, was by no means discreditable to him; but it had the objection of not being sufficiently careful to protect vested interests. In some cases where representations were made of the incompetence of the Commissioners they had been changed. These cases he felt, however, bound to say were very few. With respect to the Voluntary Commutation Act referred to by his hon. friend, he felt no hesitation in saying, that if that Act had been made compulsory instead of voluntary it would have been attended with the most beneficial results. It had been found in the highest degree successful wherever it had been introduced. At present nothing could be more unjust than an equalisation of the composition. Let the House, for instance, reflect upon the effect of it where voluntary composition had been already entered into. For the inequality of this composition many reasons might be assigned. In some parishes there was more grass land than in others. The customs were different in different parishes. For example, in some potatoes were titheable, and in others not. To show the great variety of circumstances under which different parts of Ireland were placed with regard to tithes he had extracted from various reports of commissioners twenty descriptions which might enable the House to judge of the real difficulties with which the framers of the measure had to grapple. The paper which he held in his hand presented twenty different and specific grounds of increase—
 435 Prevention by obstruction—tithes withheld. Tithes paid in one part, withheld in another part, of a parish. Additions made for tithes on certain articles withheld for seven years. Demesne lands brought in (does not affect the parish). Ownership of rectorial tithes (paid) in dispute during seven years. Tithes in long lease (one-fifth added). No tithes paid for fifty years previously. Agreement for so much per acre (acres omitted). Tithes had in great part been leased in with lands, or rent only paid—composition fixed on average of adjoining parishes. Tithes in lease, low rent, high fine. Rectorial or vicarial tithes leased under value, one fixed in proportion to the other. Parishioners had long agreed to pay a certain sum free of costs. This advantage estimated at 15 per cent. Addition for clear and undisputed rights not enforced. Landlords admitted that the late agreements were under value. Rights not having been enforced—average of adjoining parishes taken. Tithes disputed in part of the parish—valuation made. Amounts paid to lessees could not be ascertained. Agreement in vestry—raised by. Agreement in vestry for part—one townland raised. Tithes on some lands, formerly in the hands of proctors, no account given to the rectors. 436 437
 Mr. Littleton : Then I beg to inform the hon. Gentleman, that the sum received in the course of last year, from lapsed Sees and other sources, is about 30,000 l
 Mr. Littleton  said, that the House was aware that by the 53rd clause of the Irish Tithe Bill, it was proposed to fix a varying rate of reduction for each county or district, but he intended to propose, in lieu of this provision, that a uniform rate of reduction should be made on the payments to tithe-owners at fifteen per cent., except in cases where landlords had already taken upon themselves the payment of compositions, and, in such cases, to meet the additional costs of collections, the deductions he proposed would be 17½ per cent. The next alteration he should have to propose was, that when leases of tithes had been made to the possessors of lands, the rent reserved on such leases, or the composition, whichever was the smaller in amount, should be the measure of the Land-tax, but the incumbent lessor was to receive the amount of the refit, subject, of course, to a reasonable charge for collection; the deficiency, if any, being made good out of the funds arising from the deductions. Another provision would be, that where tithe-free lands had been subjected to composition, an arrangement should be made for the exoneration of such lands, and the principle of Lord Tenterden's Act, 2nd and 3rd William 4th., c. 100, should be extended to Ireland. The next alteration he should have to propose would be, that instead of providing an office for the receipt of voluntary payment of the Land-tax under the 29th clause, the collector of Excise should be employed for that purpose. Another alteration would be, that instead of appointing paymasters of warrants, the transactions should be managed through the instrumentality of the Bank of Ireland, if practicable. The next alteration was, that forms for all the conveyances under the Bill should be supplied by a schedule, with a view to the reduction of law expenses. The next would be, that the 62nd clause, authorising an abatement of ten per cent. on the redemption money in the case of estates much subdivided, should be struck out, and, that power should be given to the Commissioners of Woods and Forests, to direct a valuation of any individual estate for the purpose of redeeming the Land-tax. The last alteration he should have to suggest was, that powers should be given for the exchange at any
 426
 Mr. Littleton  hoped, that an adjournment would not be persisted in. The difficulties which would ensue had already been fully stated by his noble friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who had stated, that the whole of Monday would be occupied with a discussion which by possibility might be adjourned. He would therefore submit, as a suggestion to the House, that the Bill should now be read  pro formâ
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  said, it was not his intention to occupy the attention of the House at any length, but he thought this new Bill was one which called for a few observations on his part. This new measure was full of alterations, while, according to the announcement of the right hon. Secretary himself, its technicalities, instead of being removed, were multiplied. It was a subject of outcry in Ireland that by this new Bill an additional security would be given to the clergy for the continuance of tithes in Ireland. This he considered one of its most objectionable features, and he would tell Ministers that if they mixed up but one farthing of tithes with 1 l 442 l l 443 444
 Mr. Shaw  presented a Petition, signed by nearly 5,000 inhabitants of the city of Dublin and its vicinity, against the abolition of Kilmainham Hospital. He implored Ministers not to make any further reductions of this nature in the national establishments of Ireland. The hospital was an ornament to Dublin. It was established by Charles 2nd, and had been supported out of the pay of the soldiers. He trusted, that Ministers would not carry their intentions into effect, for the various reductions which had been recently made were producing much distress and discontent in Ireland.
 Mr. Goulburn  considered that a mean and paltry policy, which suffered feelings of economy to prejudice great national considerations. He cordially supported the petition.
 Mr. Goulburn  felt it impossible to adopt the course of giving his vote for the second reading of this Bill without expressing shortly the reasons which induced him to support a measure, of which he could not approve, and which, under ordinary circumstances, he should have felt it his duty to oppose. They were called upon to judge of two propositions which, though unjust in principle, differed in the degree of their injustice. On the one hand the hon. Gentleman the member for Kildare proposed, a Resolution the effect of which would be destructive of tithe property, while on the other, a considerable sacrifice of the rights of that property would take place under the provisions of this Bill. They had, therefore, but a choice of evils, and consequently he should vote for that proposition which he conceived least injurious, in the hope that when this Bill got into Committee it
 452 453 l l l l l l l l l l 454
 Mr. Henry Grattan  objected to the working of this Bill, so far as it affected the landlords. In that respect its operation was most unjust. He agreed with the principles laid down by the noble Lord, the member for Leitrim. They had first endeavoured to raise the tithes by enforcing a compulsory composition; and having effected that, they proceeded to transfer the burthen of that composition to the land; and so far from its being, in any respect, a benefit to the tithe-payer, many things were now made tithable which never paid tithes before. Many of the clauses of the Bill, too, were of a most jobbing and objectionable nature. How was the Government realizing its promise of endeavouring to allay irritation and agitation in Ireland? This measure would have the effect of increasing both. The present Ministry, on coming into office, found the people in collision with the Government; they found the people in collision with the Church; and now they were about to bring them into collision with the landlords. But, said Ministers, we will arm the landlords with
 445 l l 446 s l 447 448 A laugh l l 449
 Mr. H. Grattan  regarded the proceedings about to be adopted with reference to Kilmainham Hospital, as an attempt on the part of the Government to do, through the medium of that House, what Charles 1st had done without it.
 Mr. Lambert  had given the Bill before the House his best consideration, and deeply regretted that he could not give it his support. He regretted this the more because there was no prospect of establishing peace in Ireland until the question of tithes was set at rest. He had several objections to the Bill. In the first place it was unintelligible; in the second place it was unjust; and, above all, it was not final. If great talent, good calculation, and the strictest honesty could have settled the question, it would have been settled already; all these qualities were possessed by the right hon. Secretary; but besides these an intimate knowledge of the
 455 bonus 456 l
 Mr. Hume  did not see why the money to be advanced should be charged on the Consolidated Fund. He feared, that if we put it on that Fund we should never see a farthing of it again. He proposed to leave out the words "Consolidated Fund," and substitute for them "the Commissioners of Exchequer Bills." He would ask the noble Lord, while he was on this subject, what measures the Government were about to bring forward to pacify Ireland. Before we advanced more money to support the Church, which, in his opinion, was the cause of all the disturbances there, we ought to think of some remedial measures. It was fit that the Church should be maintained out of the Church property, and he should therefore move, as an Amendment, that 100,000 l
 Mr. Hume : I was in my place, and yet did not hear it.
 Mr. Hume  said, he would not consent to advance one single shilling, until he ascertained what amount of funds had been received from lapsed Sees and other sources, since last year.
 Mr. More O'Ferrall  regretted, that the alterations which the right hon. Gentleman meant to make in this Bill could not change his opinion of its impolicy. In opposing the measure, he had no desire to throw any impediment in the way of the settlement of the tithe question; on the contrary, he was deeply anxious that that question should be brought to a satisfactory conclusion; and it was because he was convinced, that the present measure could not have that effect, that he was induced to oppose it. He thought, that tithes were public property which Parliament was bound to preserve, although all might not approve of the present appropriation. He differed from those who thought that this fund should be applied solely to the support of the Established Church; but, in the present discussion, it was necessary to distinguish between the mode of collecting the fund and its future appropriation. He would endeavour to show, that the measure now brought forward, would not succeed in rendering the collection of that fund more easy than it had been, and that it did not remove the obnoxious provisions of former Acts. It was necessary to state what the legislation had been on the subject of tithes, for the information of those Members who were not present in the late Parliament, when this subject was discussed. From the reign of Henry 8th, several Acts were passed to enforce the payment of tithe. The wealthy proprietors of grass lands were the most formidable opponents of the tithe-system to 1735, when, by a resolution of the Irish House of Commons, grass-lands became exempt from tithe. As tillage increased, the clergy levied their income almost exclusively on the cultivated lands, and the opposition which they formerly experienced from the upper classes, was then evinced by the poorer cultivator of the soil in the various illegal combinations known under the names of "Hearts of Oak," "Peep-o'-day Boys," and "Ribandmen," all of which originated in the collection of tithe. In the year 1787, the evil had grown so great, that Mr. Grattan brought the subject forward in the Irish House of Commons, by proposing a commutation of tithe; his Bill
 427 428
 Mr. Sheil  begged to address the House, and but for a very short time. In the first place he begged to recall to the attention of hon. Members, the enthusiastic acclamations with which his hon. friend the member for Wexford had been heard upon a former evening when he was speaking against the Repeal of the Union, and that they would contrast it with the dead silence with which his observations were now received. Why take his advice upon a question of Repeal, and reject it on the question of the Church? He did not call upon the Government to be advised by him. He had no connexion with them, and consequently his opinion could be no authority. But ought they not to place some reliance upon those who were their firm and staunch supporters. Would they not pay some attention to the majority of the Irish Members? Upon a former occasion it was said, that a minority only were in favour of a particular measure, and that there upon the proposition ought not to command attention; but here a majority of the hon. Members were opposed to this Bill; and again he asked, was their opinion entitled to no respect? The hon. member for Donegal, to be sure, said it was a lesser evil, and that he must therefore support it; but he thought it was greater, and therefore he would oppose it. But then there was the hon. member for Mayo (Mr. D. Browne), whose advice was worth ninety-nine Members on that side of the House—and what said he? Was he in favour of the measure? Was there—he put the question plainly to them—one Irish Member out of one hundred
 457 458
 Mr. Carew  said, he had understood that the hon. Member who had just addressed the House intended to move, that the Bill be read a second time that day
 431
 Mr. Carew  said, he had been urged to move the postponement of the second reading of the Bill for six months, but he had refused, because he thought the delay would he disadvantageous to the country; but he should not withdraw the Motion he had made.
 Mr. Blackney  said, that to carry this measure into effect would require an insurrection act, in order to support the landlords in collecting the tithes. He had received many communications from persons in Ireland on this subject. He was a magistrate; he was a justice of the peace; and he was a deputy-lieutenant. He had had many petitions brought to him on the subject of Repeal by persons who were opposed to Repeal, and who said that if this measure was carried, they would become repealers. His Majesty's Ministers must be prepared for such scenes as had not, perhaps, been experienced for centuries. He spoke as a gentleman, anxious for the peace and harmony of the country. He spoke the sentiments of the populous counties of Kilkenny, Tipperary, Carlow, and Kildare. This measure would transfer the odium from the clergy to the landlords. It would render a new insurrection act necessary, and the re-embodying the Yeomanry. Scenes worse than Whiteboyism would be acted if this Bill passed.
 Mr. Finn  denounced the measure, because while sinecures in the State were condemned by all parties, it went to establish and maintain their existence in the Church. In ten parishes in the county of Kilkenny there was not a single Protestant; in his own parish there was no Church, and yet the people were called upon to pay tithes to clergymen who had nothing to do but collect their incomes. So long as the present appro-
 432
 Mr. Finn  said, the system of economy adopted in regard to Ireland only added to the expense. The whole proceedings were so managed as to be an affront to the people; and it cost immense sums to repress their dissatisfaction. The removal of the hospital was one of the things which they felt, as it would be depriving Ireland of one of her most interesting institutions.
 Mr. O'Reilly  hoped the hon. Member would not withdraw his Motion.
 Mr. O'Reilly  hoped, that his Majesty's Ministers would not confound the opposition a portion of the Irish Members had deemed it their duty to give to the Bill, with the opposition given to it out of hostility to Church property. He fully admitted one of the principles of his Majesty's Ministers, that the tithes ought to be secured in the first instance. His main objection to the Bill was, that it held out a premium to landlords to come forward and assist in the collection of tithes. He contended, that if any premium was to be afforded, it ought to be given to the tenants of Ireland, and not to the landlords, for he believed that much of the opposition to tidies arose from the avarice of the landlords, who granted lands at rack-rents. The struggle really was between the tithe-owners and the land-owners, whether or not the small interest of poor tenants should be destroyed or preserved, and the tenants were indifferent as to the result, in the hope, that in the general struggle or scramble their little properties would be altogether freed from this species of taxation. He was satisfied, that this class of tenants would prefer the Church
 471
 Mr. Ward  was willing to enter into the consideration of the Bill brought forward by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Littleton) in order to ascertain whether, by the machinery of its clauses, it was calculated to attain the end it had in view—namely, the securing of the tithe-fund, which might be disposed of hereafter as Parliament should direct. He was anxious the Bill should be committed with that view. He was certainly willing to allow the hon. member for Caithness-shire (Mr. Sinclair) an opportunity of discussing whether the Irish Church was really as beneficial to the population of the country as was supposed. For his own part, he (Mr. Ward) considered it one of the greatest evils which now afflicted it; its greatest bar to tranquillity; its greatest obstacle to prosperity. Putting, at present, out of view the ultimate appropriation of the fund, which by-and-by would be pressed upon them, he should vote for the original proposition, and not for delay.
 Lord Althorp  said, that this money was merely in advance on the security of the Church property. He did not suppose that his hon. friend would have thought the money was to come out of the pocket of the nation. He felt with him, that the Church should maintain itself with its own property. He certainly had no objection to authorise the Commissioners of Exchequer Bills to advance the money if they had enough in hand.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the House had sat later than the present hour (a quarter to 1) this Session, and it would be very inconvenient to adjourn the debate.
 Lord Clements , in explanation, said, that he never meant to cast the slightest reflection on the clergyman to whom he had alluded. He merely said, that the parishioners of that clergyman had offered him 600 l l l
 Lord Clements  said, he would follow the example of the gallant Colonel who spoke last, in intreating his Majesty's Government not to be intimidated from realizing the property of the Church, but he would add to that recommendation by
 438 439 l l l l 440 bona fide
 Mr. O'Connell  agreed, that the Catholic Church ought not to be the Established Church of Ireland, for a very different reason from that given by the hon. Member—namely, because he thought it the true Church, and he was convinced, that the true Church was always injured by any connexion with the State. As to the rights of the Dissenters of England, he thought their demands ought to be conceded; they had as good a right to be Dissenters, as the hon. Member had to be a Protestant. The hon. member for Stamford said, that it was not honest in the Dissenters to ask for the separation of Church and State. It was a new maxim in morals, that honesty was not the best policy. Men, he thought, were to be honest whatever might be the consequences. He was convinced, that the Dissenters would never get anything granted unless they asked for it, and boldly too. He would vote for every relief for which the Dissenters asked, but he was ready to condemn their conduct, and he had a right to do so, with respect to the Sabbath Observance Bill. Their principle was, that the Church and State should be separated; that the State should not interfere with religion; that there should be no Act of Parliament piety; and yet they called upon that House to legislate for the better observance of the Sabbath. What could be more inconsistent than that—they objected to the principle of a connexion between Church and State, and, in the same breath, they called for the interference of the State in a matter that should be wholly religious. Shame upon the Dissenters for supporting any legislative enactment interfering with religious faith or practice! They disgraced their sacred cause, and came down from the high ground of solemn and fixed principles. The Dissenters should command his support so long as they were consistent with themselves, but when they sought to compel the consciences of others, he would oppose them.
 Mr. Mark Philips  presented a petition from the Dissenters of Manchester and its vicinity, praying for the separation of Church and State. It was agreed to, the hon. Member said, at a very numerously-attended meeting, which was marked by protracted debate, and then by adjournment. He had not heard one dissentient vote. The petition declared, that an establishment was an infringement of the right of conscience; and it therefore prayed for an entire severance of Church and State. The hon. Member read the petition. It prayed, that there might be, with as little delay as possible, a separation of Church and State—that the Bishops might be relieved from attendance in the House of Peers—and for registration, &c. This petition was signed by 32,000 persons. It was honest, frank, and undisguised. It was open and clear. What was required was distinctly avowed, and reasons were given for every demand made; and the petitioners being thus open and candid, as well as numerous, deserved the serious consideration of the House. This open avowal of sentiments, the taking of such high ground, must, in the estimation of some, injure their cause; but though that course might scare the timid, he could not help thinking that their open and manly course was the better one, and the more likely to be ultimately successful. In common with the petitioners and many others, he could not but grieve that the Government had brought forward such inefficient measures for the relief of the Dissenters. The last measure, respecting rates, was particularly reprehensible, because, as the Dissenters resisted on principle, how could they be satisfied with a measure which threw the charge into the general taxation of the country, instead of fixing it on the members of the Church Establishment exclusively. He concurred
 514
 Mr. Romilly , in seconding the Amendment of the hon. member for Derby, said, he thought that it ought to meet with the concurrence and support of the House. He did not think it right to refuse inquiry; at the same time he did not think it would be right to enter into the subject with a full determination to apply a wet sponge to all pensions. He repeated, that he did most cordially support the Amendment of his hon. friend; for though on a former occasion he had voted for the Motion made by the hon. member for Colchester, it would be impossible to do so in this instance. The great object was, to get an honest and full investigation of gross abuses.
 Mr. Byng  said, he should vote against the Motion of the hon. and learned member for Colchester, and expressed his surprise that so many different opinions prevailed in that House on what appeared to him to be a very plain and simple question. His present Majesty, at the commencement of his reign, entered into a compact with his people, by which he agreed to give up the droits of the Admiralty, his hereditary revenues in Scotland, and the 4½ per cents (it having been found by experience, that a very improper use had been made of those funds), on condition, that the pensions granted by his brother and father should remain untouched, and that the power of conferring pensions in future to the amount of 75,000 l l l l 551
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman who last addressed the House, had professed himself ready to vote for the original Resolution, or for his own Address, if an opportunity should be afforded to move it, and this for reasons and upon grounds which might just as well have induced him to support the Amendment of the hon. member for Derby. He saw no reason, as far as the hon. and learned Member's expressions went, why he might not vote for either of those propositions as readily as for that to which he appeared disposed to give a preference. For his own part, he felt compelled to object in the very strongest manner to the original Motion, to the Amendment of the hon. member for Derby, and to the proposed Resolution of the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down. He was a little surprised to hear from a learned Gentleman who was Chairman of the Middlesex Quarter Sessions, a declaration, that the people of England would not be satisfied to look at this as a legal, but as a practical question. He was also surprised at the hon. and learned Gentleman's
 572 573 574 575 576 577 l 578
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, that he should say a very few words, and he should not have said any thing at all, but for the boldness that contended for a contract that did not exist, or a law which had not been passed. He denied, that either existed. The noble Lord said, that there was a legal right on the part of those who enjoyed the pensions granted; but why
 579 580
 Mr. Lloyd  said, that although he had supported the former Motion of the hon. and learned member for Colchester upon this subject, he could not vote with him on the present occasion, inasmuch as he could not support any Motion which would involve in it a violation of public faith, as well as of a solemn compact between the Parliament and the Crown. Indeed, there was so wide a distinction between the present and the former Motion of the hon. and learned member for Colchester, that he could not reconcile them. He knew the people of England to be just and honourable; and he knew that they were desirous for some inquiry into this subject. He believed they had a just and proper right to call for such an inquiry, particularly when it was admitted upon all hands, that many of the pensions were most grossly and profligately bestowed. He was sorry that his Majesty's Ministers felt it necessary to oppose inquiry; for he apprehended that Ministerial responsibility should for the future be something tangible and real, and not a shadow or a bugbear with which to frighten or alarm the people. Nothing in his opinion could lower this Reformed House of Commons more in the estimation of the people than to treat with scorn the rights of property—that word property being rightly understood. He did not speak of vested rights, and all that sort of property which had been so spoken of, and treated as real property in this House during the discussion of the Reform Bill; but real  bonâ fide
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, that in rising to second the Motion, he begged to remind his hon. friend, that one of the objects for which he had stated it was in his contemplation to provide by the Bill he sought to bring in, had been effectually attained by a Bill which the hon. Baronet, the member for Wigtonshire (Sir Andrew Agnew) and himself, introduced, and which passed into a Law in the last Session of Parliament, viz., "the Act to
 588
 Mr. Ewart Gladstone  supported the Motion. The Bill was different from any one before presented. It was calculated both to simplify and strengthen the law; and he therefore would support it.
 Lord John Russell  said, he would not enter into the objections which the petitioners had made to the measures of relief which had been proposed to the House by his Majesty's Government on the present occasion; but, as the hon. Member had thought fit to take that opportunity of making another declaration of his sentiments on the subject, perhaps he might be permitted to state in a few words, what he conceived to be the plain question for the consideration of that House, whenever the subject should come before it. Two grounds of objection had been made to the Ministerial measures of relief. The first was, that the Church had sufficient means to support itself and keep the fabric in repair out of its own funds. That was a fair question for argument; and when it came before the House, he should be prepared to meet it. He should endeavour to prove, that it was not expedient, that it was not wise, and that it was not just, to insist that the Church, out of the funds it now possessed, without the aid of the State, should keep in repair the places of worship. The second objection was of a different kind; it was not, that the money which was necessary for the repair of the Church, should not be paid, but it was an objection of principle, and it went the extent of saying, that persons differing in religious opinions from an established Church, ought not to be called upon to contribute in any shape to its support. It might be a right principle, it might be a proper principle, for the Dissenters to argue, but he hesitated not to say, it was a principle utterly subversive of the Church Establishment; and he considered, that if ever the Legislature should consent to admit the doctrine, that any man who said he did not agree to the religious tenets and opinions of the Established Church, should be thereupon for ever exempt from any contribution towards the maintenance of the Church, it would, in fact, declare, that no Church Establishment should any longer exist at
 508
 Mr. Rotch  said, that the people of
 570 Oh, Oh! 571
 Mr. Harvey  observed, in reply, that it was his intention to take the sense of the House upon the original Motion; and if that were lost, it was his intention to vote for the amendment, and he was induced to adopt this course, in order that no one might have an opportunity to explain to others that the retreat of the original Motion had compelled him to oppose the inquiry. The hon. Secretary for the Colonies had met this Motion in great candour. He had at once told the House, and in that respect he had removed suspicions and whispers of apprehensions, that in the event of either of those Motions being carried, it was the signal of his retreat from office, accompanied by all his colleagues; but there was another party whose opinion remained to be expressed. We had two Cabinets; we had two sets of Ministers; one was at least gratuitous, for though the right hon. Gentleman opposite formed the Cabinet of the Crown, the real Government of the country was the right hon. member for Tamworth. No hen was more anxious to bring her chickens under her wings, than were the right hon. Gentlemen opposite to acquire the favour of that right hon. Member. Night after night they were sending forth leering looks, and an expression of gratification beamed over their previously gloomy countenances, the moment it was ascertained to what point the right hon. member for Tamworth meant to steer. Not that it was matter of reprehension, because all knew what general coincidence of sentiment there was upon both sides, and that Ministers might generally calculate upon perfect concurrence. Ministers seemed to be joining in the present system of intimidation. The tailors had struck, and the country was now threatened with a strike in the Cabinet. He had no doubt, however, that the people would derive comfort from the same source from which the master tailors had
 581 582 583 584 *
 Mr. Harvey  rose and said, that he could assure the House that if he had possessed the courage to withstand the imputation of a political instead of physical indisposition, he should not have appeared there that evening, for he was rendered very incompetent by illness to do justice to the subject which he was about to bring forward. However, it would have this good effect, that it would compel him to consume as little of the time of the House as would be necessary for the proper understanding of the question; and though it had been their fortune lately, whether good or bad he would not say, to hear that illustration of oratory which declared, that a good speech could not be comprised in less than six hours, he should endeavour to compress his remarks into a twelfth part of that time. It was a pleasing task to have to thank Government for the courtesy which had been extended to him, because, although the Motion of which he had given notice was not a palatable one, not only had no obstruction been offered by the Government, but every facility had been given for bringing it under the consideration of the House, and that, too, at a time when the state of public business afforded many methods for deferring the Motion. He thought, that it was a curious coincidence that the Poor Laws' Amendment Bill stood upon the Orders of the Day, because much of the principles and objects of his Motion was to be found in that Bill; because, if the
 515 516 517 l l l 518 l l l l 519 520 521 * l l l * 522 l l 523 l l l l 524 l 525 526 l 527 l 528 529 l l l l l l s l s l s 530 l l l l l l l l l s d l l s d l 531 l l l s l l s l l l l s d l l l l l A Member l s l l 532 l extraordinaire l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l s 533 534 535 536
 Mr. Strutt  said, that he was aware of the difficulty of the task he had imposed on himself, but he would endeavour, in discharging it, to trespass as short a time as he could on the House. He assured the hon. and learned Gentleman who had brought forward this Motion, that it was not from any want of courtesy to him, that he had not acquainted him with the nature of his intended Amendment. In the first place, he was not sufficiently acquainted with Parliamentary practice to be aware that it was necessary to do so, and he thought it the less necessary as the hon. Member had not placed the words of his own Motion on the Order-book. The hon. Member had alluded to a little Parliament called together in Downing-street, on this subject. All he would say was, that if such a meeting had taken place, he was not a member of it, and he disclaimed being considered as its organ on this occasion. He also begged to disavow any connexion with Ministers in the course he was now pursuing. He had had no communication of any kind with them on this
 539 540 l 541 542 543 prima facie 544
 Mr. Finch  was in favour of a Church Establishment. It was erroneously argued, that because the Saviour had said, "My kingdom is not of this world, else would my servants fight," it was not the duty of States to support a national religion; but if he read the Scriptures rightly, he learned that "kings were to be the nursing fathers, and queens the nursing mothers" of the Church. He agreed, that the kingdom of our Saviour was not of this world, but he knew of no connexion between Church-rates and religion. The Church was not opposed to improvement which would tend to promote its religious interests. Its members were opposed to the taxation of the clergy and the destruction of bishoprics; but if any plan of real and substantial improvement was introduced, whether it related to pluralities or non-residence, or any matters of that nature, he (Mr. Finch), and those who thought with him, would, instead of opposing it, give it their cordial sanction and support. The tax of which the Dissenters complained did not average 3 d Mr. O' Connell made an observation 511
 Mr. George F. Young  supported the Motion. The present law was found to be inefficient, and, therefore, he wished to see it amended.
 Mr. Aglionby  protested against the question being discussed as a question of theology. He denied, that the Church and religion were synonymous terms.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the hon. Member did not seem to be aware, that the petition which he had the honour to present, had been circulated in the University, and that no compulsion had been used in getting it up. He had deplored the departure from academic discipline; but when one portion of the members had thought proper to present a petition, the other must surely be excused for a similar departure from the usual custom, or submit to the imputation of having compromised their principles.
 Mr. Warburton  thought, after so much crude legislation had been had on this subject, that it would be well to postpone the present measure. There were clauses of the present Bill totally at variance with the usages of society, and he, therefore, would oppose it at every stage.
 Mr. Hawkins  rose and said, that having been one of those who, a few months since, had given a silent vote in favour of the motion of the hon. member for Colchester for an inquiry into the Pension-list, he wished to state very briefly the reasons which would guide his vote this evening. He might as well state at once, that to the present Motion of the hon. member for Colchester he could not accede. His first objection was to the manner in which the hon. Member proposed to accomplish his object. He protested against making the King the instrument of this invidious and ungrateful task. The present Sovereign had no hand in granting these pensions; they were not even granted during his reign; he had no power to prevent or control the grant. What right, then, had they to call upon him to undertake the odious office of deciding upon the merits of these grants, and of saying who should resign and who should retain their pensions. If they, the Commons of England, thought that justice to their constituents required the Pension-list to be purged, let them who thought so, themselves undertake the duty without shrinking. It might be a needful, a just, a beneficial job; but no one would deny that it was a dirty job; and as such ought to be performed by those who thought it necessary. Let them go into the inquiry if they must; let them abolish those pensions if they thought fit; but as Englishmen and gentlemen, let them not try to pocket the popularity of the proceeding, while they threw the responsibility and odium upon the shoulders of other persons who were not guilty of having created the necessity. Perhaps it would be said, that an address to the Crown was a mere formality; that, in reality, if this address were carried, the revision would be performed by Commissioners appointed by the Treasury. Still this did not remove his objection. It did not take away the repugnance he felt, to mix up the name of the King in
 552 No! no! 553 554 555
 Mr. Roebuck  thought it was quite wrong to proceed at that hour of the morning with such a measure, and therefore he would offer it his determined opposition. He would divide the House on the subject.
 Mr. Wilks  presented a petition, signed by upwards of one hundred of the deputies of the different congregations of the metropolis, and within twelve miles of it, praying for relief. The petition was agreed to at a meeting where the utmost unanimity prevailed, and the firmest declarations of their full intention to demand their rights; and the petitioners found a difficulty in repressing the expressions of their indignation at the line of conduct pursued by his Majesty's Government towards them. In fact, there was scarcely a town or parish in the kingdom in which the Dissenters were not prepared specifically to petition for the removal of their disabilities, and especially for relief from Church-rates. If they were disregarded and disappointed, they would be compelled to come forward in a more decided manner, because they would naturally be
 507
 Mr. Hume  said, it was with great regret that he had heard the noble Lord's last sentence, because it was clear from that, that no call for inquiry could meet with approbation from his Majesty's Ministers. In other words, it was certain that his Majesty's Ministers were against all inquiry, and that they had staked their existence on this question. The hon. member for Derby had said, that no great economy would result from taking away pensions. Now, his hon. friend had distinctly stated, that he did not wish to interfere with those on the Civil-list—it was not his wish to take anything from the sum of 75,000 l l 547 l 548
 Mr. Hume  said, the complaints against the Established Church were now becoming so loud and numerous, that it would be impossible for the House long to resist them. He had petitions from all parts of the realm on the subject. Some prayed for a total separation from the State; some complained of the tithe system; and others were against the payment of Church-rates. He had heard the noble Lord say, that his line of conduct was chalked out with much concern, because he thought that course ought to be taken with great care and caution. He, for his part, had always been of opinion, that a Protestant Church ought to exist in this country, founded on the religious opinions of the Majority; that a Protestant Church ought also to exist in Scotland, but a Roman Catholic Church in Ireland. The last, however, in his opinion, ought not to be an establishment. He thought the Dissenters had little to expect from the present Government, nor was there much hope to be entertained of a Reform in the Establishment. He confessed, that when he saw one Government determined to support the acknowledged abuses of the Church at all hazards, succeeded by another equally inclined to follow in the same steps, it became the duty of the House to consider, whether it would not take upon itself the arbitration of the question between the Government and the people. The consequence of the Government refusing to concede the just claims of the Dissenters, must be to promote a sectarian warfare in all parts of the country, which, if it was suffered to proceed, would end in the destruction of true religion in England. The hon. Member then referred to the origin of the alliance between the Church and State, and said it could not be defended by the arguments originally
 509
 Mr. Hesketh Fleetwood  moved for leave to bring in a Bill for the better observance of the Lord's Day. The hon. Member explained that his Bill would consolidate several Acts of Parliament, and regulate the opening and closing of public-houses on the Sabbath.
 Mr. Sheil  was at a loss whether he ought most to admire the oratorical display of the right hon. Baronet, or the lofty generosity of his speech. His Majesty's Ministers had joined in the condemnation of the Pension-list, stating that there were certain names there which ought never to have appeared on it, they had at the same time declared that these abuses occurred under an antecedent Administration, of which the right hon. Baronet was a Member; but in spite of these circumstances the right hon. Baronet, at a moment which was somewhat critical, came forward for the purpose of giving to his Majesty's Ministers what on all hands must be admitted to be his most disinterested support. The right hon. Baronet said, that the hon. member for Colchester differed from the hon. member for Derby. The right hon. Baronet should recollect that he differs from the Chancellor of the Exchequer:—the right hon. Baronet said, the Pension-list afforded no ground for investigation, while the Chancellor of the Exchequer admitted, that it was open to inquiry; notwithstanding that assertion,
 567 * * 568 l l 569
 Mr. William Evans  said, that the Dissenters had been much misrepresented in that House; they had no desire to touch the property of the Church. If he thought such was their intention, he should withdraw his support from them.
 Mr. Gillon  disagreed with the hon. member for Stamford when he said, it was Church or no Church; also, when he said, that kings and queens were the best supporters of the Church. If they were, they ought and would advance the small sum (250,000 l d d d
 Mr. James  read an extract from a letter he had received from a Dissenting clergyman in Carlisle, for the consideration of the noble Lord; it stated, that the Dissenters had been disappointed and astounded by the mock relief of Lord John Russell and Lord Althorp's Church-rate Bill, and said, it was a proof the Dissenters had not much to expect from the present Government, but that they must look to their Representatives. He (Mr. James) was a friend to the Established Church, because he wished to see the Establishment rest on its own resources. The sooner the connexion between Church and State was done away with the better, for if the people of England continued to be taxed for the support of any particular creed or doctrine, the Establishment must very soon fall. People might talk of the Established Church being the ancient religion of the country, but the Roman Catholic was the oldest religion, except Paganism; one half the country was Dis-
 510
 Sir Daniel Sandford  said, that what the Dissenters wanted was, to abstract from the Church its property for the purpose of applying it to secular affairs. That was simply the amount of their prayer. He warned the hon. member for Dublin, and other hon. Members, how they supported their claims. Their advocacy of the cause of the Dissenters must naturally deter that House from making concessions, because, if Parliament dared to do so, it would only open the door to those whose wish was, to deprive the Church of its all. But this he would be able to show on the proper occasion. He repeated, that what the Dissenters asked for was, to be allowed to plunder the Church of its property; and he asserted, that to recognize such a right, would be to endanger the whole of the property of the kingdom, and place the country under the worst species of religious despotism. He challenged any hon. Member to show him any two points in which the Dissenters agreed, unless it was in their repugnance to the Church Establishment. He disagreed with the hon. member for Middlesex's calculation, that the Dissenters in England exceeded one-half of the members of the Church of England; in Scotland they certainly did not amount to more than one-sixth of the population. He was himself a speaking proof of the truth of his assertion, because he came from a city more unfavourably inclined
 513
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  was not one of those who thought the Church should be sup-
 512
 Mr. Jervis , in opposing the views adopted by his Majesty's Government, might be considered as speaking against his own interest, belonging as he did to a family which partook considerably of its advantages. The question was, whether they would or would not revise the Pension-list? He had not the slightest difficulty in saying, that the most proper, the most constitutional way of proceeding was, in the manner indicated by the Motion of the hon. member for Colchester. How did the matter stand? A certain sum was placed at the disposal of the Crown, the mode of its appropriation was an act of the responsible Government; and if there were reason to believe, that the Monarch had been misled by the information given to him by his responsible advisers, it was not only perfectly competent to the House, but it was their duty to call upon the Crown to reconsider its grants. It had been said, that they were bound by a compact with the King, the people, and the parties receiving the pension; but on the other side it had been admitted, that there might be such a thing as a revision; and if so at one time, why not at another? It might be perfectly true, that they ought not to interfere with the bounty of the Crown, but there could be no doubt that they ought to guard against the consequences of the Crown's being misled or misinformed. He understood the object of the hon. member for Derby's Motion to be, to prevent any pension being improperly granted in future, and to bind the Government not to give away the public money to any individual who had not merited such a reward by some public service. But would the public be satisfied with any inquiry, the object of which was thus limited? Though the amount of the Pension-list was small, yet the principle involved in it was great, and the people would never be contented with the appointment of a Committee, unless that
 549 nudum pactum 550
 Sir Robert Peel : I do not profess to be labouring under the influence of those feelings which the hon. Gentleman who spoke last ascribed to members of his
 556 557 558 559 560 l l l 561 l 562 563 564 565 566 Hear! Hear!
 Mr. Hutt  said, he did not rise for the purpose of entering into any discussion on the subject of the petition presented to the House on Friday last; as a member of the University, however, he could not forbear expressing his surprise, that such a petition should have been presented to the House at all, and especially, that it
 506
 Lord Althorp  wished to observe that, while he thought the Amendment proposed by the hon. member for Derby was not liable to one objection which he had stated attached to the Motion of the hon. member for Colchester,—namely, it did not go to call upon his Majesty to negative the pensions which he had granted; and although he thought the speech of the hon. Mover of the Amendment was not liable to the objections of that of the hon. member for Colchester, still he considered the Amendment of the hon. member for Derby was exposed to pretty nearly as much and as strong objection as the original Motion. Coupling the speech with the Amendment, it did not involve the principle of injustice to which he had objected in the case of the original Motion. He did not think, however, that either the mover or seconder of the Amendment need have apologised for having voted for the Motion of the 18th February, because he did not think that the distinction between the two was so great as to make any apology necessary. Undoubtedly there was a great distinction to be drawn in the views with which they were brought forward, and in the speeches with which they were introduced. The objects appeared different. One stated by the hon. Mover was the great excitement which existed in the
 545
 Lord Althorp  said, that he had felt it his duty to oppose the former motion made by the hon. Member on this question, but he had still stronger objections to that which he now proposed. It appeared to him, that the proposition of the hon. and learned Member was one which it was utterly impossible that any Gentleman could accede to. The proposition was, to call on this House to address his Majesty to take away those pensions which his Majesty had confirmed. They were asked to call on the King to do that which no man of gentleman like feeling could consent to do, viz., to deprive persons of the pensions which he himself had be-
 537 538
 Colonel Evans  observed, that the tone of the petitions of the Dissenters ought to show Ministers the impolicy of half-measures on this subject. Their language and desires had become much more violent than before, since they found that his Majesty's Government was disposed to do little or nothing to relieve them. Religious establishments, in his opinion, should not be supported by large revenues, any more than civil offices should have large salaries. He could adduce several instances in the metropolis to show that compulsory payments were not necessary for the support of the Church. With regard to the admission of Dissenters to the Universities, he believed that Constantinople and Madrid were the only two metropolises besides London, where a college did not exist for all classes.
 Mr. O'Connell  would explain, then, that having been attacked by the right hon. Gentleman, and accused most unfoundedly of having formed a premeditated plan or combination with his hon. friend to have the House counted for a particular purpose, he had called upon that House to discredit an accusation, than which he had never known anything more unfounded, than which nothing could be a greater falsity—that, he believed, was the Parliamentary word, and that he might be allowed to use. The truth was, that he had formed no plan, and had had no communication with his hon. friend. He had passed the last eight-and-forty hours in the utmost anxiety for the result of this Motion, and there was no sacrifice he was not ready to make to secure the pacification of Ireland. He had come down to the House under a strong feeling, which had been roused to abhorrence when he saw so small an attendance, and especially of English Members, and he then thought it his duty to take the course he took. And did the right hon. Gentleman think, that he was to be deterred from what he thought his duty by his taunts and the cheers which they excited? He knew it was easy for any man to get a shout of applause who attacked him, but that would have little effect upon his conduct. He agreed with his hon. friend in the view of the bearing of the right hon. Gentleman towards the House. Did the right hon. Gentleman think, that the indecent mode in which he frequently placed himself in that House—He thanked the hon. Gentlemen for their cheers; but, although there might be others of a different opinion, he thought such conduct was indecent; and he had heard fifty other Members say, that they thought so likewise. He was doing nothing, and had done nothing when the right hon. Gentleman attacked him. What right, therefore, had the right hon. Gentleman to tell him, that he had been a party to a conspiracy, when he had called over the House for no other reason than his desire to mark the
 626
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  rose to order. He denied having been ever, intentionally at any rate, guilty of disrespect towards the House. If, on the present occasion, he had smiled, it had been at the preconcerted plan which so palpably appeared to have been got up between the hon. and learned member for Dublin, and the hon. and learned member for Clonmel (Mr. Ronayne), viz., that the former should count the House, although there were evidently above a hundred members present, and that the latter should introduce a clap-trap, to be duly transmitted to Ireland, about "500 members being present when the Pension-list was to be defended, but only 118 when the question was, whether Ireland should be given up to the police and the military." He would recommend the hon. and learned Member, when next he had the House counted, to take particular note how many Members of the name of O'Connell were present. On the present occasion, the hon. and learned Member was the only Representative of that name honouring with his presence the discussion as to "whether Ireland was to be given up to the tender mercies of the police and the military."
 Mr. O'Connell  said, it was a pity, that the right hon. Secretary had not applied himself to answering, if he could, the very first remark of the hon. and learned Member, instead of making an attack upon him (Mr. O'Connell), who had taken no part in the discussion. The right hon. Secretary's charge against him was distinguished by the right hon. Gentleman's usual disregard of veracity. [ Order
 Mr. Ruthven  thought, that the Bill before the House would not go to prevent any scenes similar to those which had already taken place. The collection of tithe, he maintained, was a system which was founded upon the principle of the ascendancy of the Protestant Church in Ireland. He thought that they were the real Protestants who dissented from and protested against an Established Church—who objected to a dominant church; and he would maintain that each church should be supported by its own adherents. This was the fair and just principle to go upon. There were no means he would not resort to, to oppose the domination of that Church of which he himself was a member. If they were to regret anything more than another, it was the fact that a number of those Ministers of religion who received wages for their services, prostituted its name, and debased its duties. One great mischief to which the present Bill would lead was, that the landlord would be thrown into the obnoxious situation of demanding from his tenantry that impost which had been productive of so much misery in Ireland. It was clear, that the landlords must collect the tithes, or that which was a substitute for them. The tithes, he held, were national property, and he did not wish to take them
 640
 Mr. O'Connell  was in hope that, by adjourning the debate he should attract the attention of English Members. He hoped that justice would be done to Ireland, but that hope appeared also futile. He had come down to the House that night in expectation that the attention of English Members would be aroused to the condition of the Irish people, and that their sense of justice would have impelled them to come to a satisfactory settlement of the question of tithes; but a chill came over him when he saw the benches so empty, and he vented his indignation in the only form left him—that of moving that the House should be counted. Perhaps he was wrong in doing so—perhaps not; but, right or wrong, the sentiment was strong in his mind (when he recollected the majority on Repeal, in connection with that meagre attendance) that English Members—he did not mean to accuse them—were apa-
 643 pari passu 644 l l 645 646 De te fabula narratur 647 Shylock 648 649 "Be to her faults a little blind, Be to her virtues ever kind," Stanley: 650 l 651 l l l 652 l l l l l 653 654 bellum plusquam civile
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  was anxious to say a few words, because he, in common with other hon. Members, was struck with the tone and manner in which the hon. and learned member for Dublin had made the observations which he had submitted to the House. For that tone, and for that manner he (Mr. Stanley), as an individual member of that House, and as one who, whatever the hon. and learned Member might suppose, took no little interest in the welfare of Ireland, returned the hon. and learned Member his best thanks. "I say, continued the right hon. Gentleman, and I say it with the utmost sincerity, that if the hon. and learned Gentleman will, not only here, but in all other places, follow up the same mild and can-
 660 661 locus pœnitentiœ 662
 Mr. O' Connell  was understood to say, in explanation, that one-fifth was to fall immediately on the landlord, and two-fifths were to fall on the land, to be levied on the occupier.
 Mr. Stanley : If such were the case, where then was the prospect of the pacification of Ireland? The hon. and learned Gentleman had told them over and over again, that it was not the amount of tithes to which the people of Ireland objected, but to the objects to which that amount when paid was applied. [Mr.  Sheil 663 s s 664
 Colonel Conolly  said, that when he announced his determination to support this Bill, his impression was, that the funds with which it would deal were to be applied to the purposes for which they were originally intended. His Majesty's Government had since gone from that ground. They had abandoned the distinct proposition on the face of the Bill, and he now claimed to be released from the engagement that had been made at a time when he was grossly deceived. When
 676 felo de se? felo de se;
 Mr. Langdale  alluded to the petition he had presented from fifty Catholic clergymen, complaining of the measure which had been introduced by Government on the subject of marriage, and urged the necessity of some effective legislative enactment on the subject. There had of late been several instances of marriages, which had taken place in Unitarian places of worship, when a simple protest had been made at the altar, and he put it to the House whether any person could desire to witness the repetition of such scenes?
 Lord John Russell  said, that the able and eloquent speech of the hon. and learned member for Dublin had made so deep an impression upon him, as he was sure also it made generally upon the House, that he could not refrain from making a few observations on that occasion. If the hon. and learned Gentleman would always address the House with the same temper and mo-
 665 666
 Major Beauclerk  was glad to hear the speech of the noble Lord (the Paymaster of the Forces), which would pour more oil into the wounds of Ireland than any speech made in that House. The question between the two countries was, what
 668
 Mr. O'Dwyer  moved, pursuant to his notice, for leave to bring in a Bill to restrain parties from proceeding in the Superior Courts in Ireland for the recovery of debts under 10 l 679 l l 680
 Mr. Anthony Lefroy  said, it had not been his intention to express any opinion upon the measure so long under discussion, till, as the hon. and learned member for Tipperary said, a difference of opinion on the most important clause in it had manifested itself amongst his Majesty's Ministers, which pressed hard upon their hearts and feelings, and which, he begged to assure the House, shocked his heart and feelings, and those of his hon. friends near him, to a degree which no words could adequately express. He, therefore, felt it an imperative duty on his own part, as well as of those hon. friends whom the forms of the House prevented a second time expressing their sentiments, to protest firmly against the doctrines for the first time revealed by the noble Paymaster of the Forces. He had not approved of all the details of this Bill; but,
 675
 Mr. Lefroy  said, he did not rise to rediscuss the question, but he wished to make one or two observations in consequence of what had fallen from hon. Members at his side of the House. It appeared to him that his hon. friend (Colonel Conolly) was labouring under a misconception as to what had fallen from right hon. Members opposite. He (Mr. Lefroy) did not understand his Majesty's Government as having stated their intention to strip the Irish Church of its revenues, but what he did understand them to say was, that the appropriation of these revenues was an open question. By the Bill as it stood, the revenues were appropriated to the Church. When the clause to which he referred, should come under discussion in Committee, it would be Open to any hon. Member to move an amendment to that clause, and then for the first time the question of appropriation would come directly under discussion. As the Bill stood at present—inasmuch as the revenues were appropriated by it to the Church, he felt justified, nay, bound to vote for the second reading. In adopting this course, he felt on the one hand, that he was not compromising the interests of the Church in Ireland, while, on the other, by rejecting the Bill, he would deprive the Church of all opportunity of making an advantageous adjustment of the question. Although individual members of the Cabinet might not feel themselves committed personally to a specific appropriation of the revenues of the Church, yet as a cabinet they were undoubtedly committed by bringing in a bill containing a clause by which the revenues of the
 678
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  wished to say a few words upon the petition which was yesterday presented from the inhabitants of Manchester. With regard to its respectability no question could be entertained; at the same time it must not be supposed that the sentiments contained in it expressed the opinion of the vast number of Dissenters whose signatures it bore. To that portion of the prayer for the redress of practical grievances, not a single objection had been made: but with regard to that part which prayed for the separation of the Church and State, a very considerable difference of opinion existed among those who had affixed their names to it. He was prepared to support the petition so far as it prayed to be relieved from the payment of Church-rates, for a registration of births, marriages, and deaths, and for the celebration of the rites of marriage in their
 611
 Mr. David Roche  hoped, that, as he seldom troubled the House, hon. Members would allow him a few moments on a question of such consequence to the peace and tranquillity of Ireland, and especially to the part of Ireland that he came from, which had been so lately the scene of such a deplorable conflict on the subject of tithes. He had deemed it his duty, during the Easter recess, to lay the right hon. Secretary's Bill before his constituents and he was fortunate enough to find both the grand juries of the county and city of Limerick assembled, to whom he submitted the Bill now before the House. He assured the right hon. Secretary for Ireland that both those bodies were unanimous in their opinion that such an enactment would not produce the tranquillity of the country, and that, as landlords, they declared they would not on such terms mix up tithes under any name whatever with their rents. He assured the House that he entered into the subject with the most anxious and sincere desire to afford his Majesty's Government every information in his power as to what
 669 670 l
 Mr. Ronayne  would repeat, that not only himself, but every Member around him, had repeatedly had occasion to express to each other the indignation they felt at the gross insolence—it was far beyond disrespect—with which the right hon. Secretary habitually treated the House.
 Mr. Ronayne  observed, that the object of his hon. and learned friend in counting the House was perfectly manifest. Yes, the object of his hon. friend was to show to the country, that, while four or five hundred Members could be called together to uphold the Pension-list, they could not muster together more than one hundred when the question to be considered was of the utmost importance to the people of Ireland. They could not command more than a hundred when the question was, whether or not Ireland should be visited with the tender mercies of the police and the military. The present Bill, he contended, was meant to perpetuate tithes under another name. With respect to the breach of confidence which was stated to have accompanied the production of the letter of the Marquess of Anglesey to Earl Grey, he could state, that the observation, if applied to him, was without foundation. The noble Lord knew, that there were many modes, without treachery, of obtaining such a document. He had read a paragraph in a paper, in which a certain individual was stated to have said, that he could not tell how any Gentleman could make use of such a document. He would only say, that, as far as the observations applied to him, he would take that opportunity of giving them his strongest and most indignant refutation. He did not think it necessary to give the source of his information, as he had a precedent in the noble Lord (Lord Althorp), who had refused to name the author of a calumny upon a Member of that House, which was admitted to be false and futile. For the purpose of saving a noble Marquess (the Marquess of Anglesey) he would read part of his correspondence. The hon. Member then proceeded to read a letter of the noble Marquess, in which he condemned the practice of compelling 8,000,000 of people to pay towards the support of an Establishment to which they did not belong. He could assure the Members of the Administration, that he would no more think of adopting their notions of honour, than he would think of imitating their "consistency." He was not affected by the contemptuous smile with which the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies (Mr. Stanley) honoured him. He was too well accustomed to the insolence with which the right hon. Gentleman treated the House on all occasions,
 624 Cries of Order, order; Chair, chair
 Mr. Ronayne  then resumed. He denied the existence of any such combination as had been alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman. But he was not surprised, as that right hon. Gentleman had, on the 6th May, 1834, called the Irish, a bigoted illiterate people, possessed of all the vices and virtues of savages, to whom the new religion would be disagreeable, as it was forced upon them by conquest. It was against the perpetuation of a State Church that he (Mr. Ronayne) contended, and should contend as long as he lived; under what name soever it might be saddled on the country—tithes, or commutation, or any other name whatever. The Church Establishment of Ireland was maintained for no other object that he could discern, than to enable the English gentry to quarter their children upon it; and that it had no spiritual purposes to forward, was, as he would show, the opinion of several of the most distinguished members of the present Government when they sat on his, the Opposition, side of the House. [The hon. and learned Member here read extracts from the letter of the Marquess of Anglesey, which he had already referred to, and also extracts from the speeches of the Marquess of Lansdown and other Ministers, which, he said, were their sentiments before they had taken their seats on the Treasury Benches, and before a change of position in that House had effected a change of opinion.] In reference to the letter of Lord Anglesey, the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had said, that it was a gross breach of confidence to publish it. He denied it, and considered it was as incumbent upon the person into whose hands it had come, to make known its contents, as if he had been secretly informed of a conspiracy to injure the interests of the country, to disclose it. The question of tithes in Ireland
 627 628 vice versa Robert Peel Robert Peel: 629 l 630 l l 631
 Mr. Littleton  said, that in the defence of his own character, and in the defence also of the Church and his Majesty's Government, he must ask the hon. and gallant Officer if he was in the House when he (Mr. Littleton) submitted that resolution to the House on which the Bill was founded? And if the hon. and gallant Gentleman was in the House, he would ask him further if he did not remember, as nineteen-twentieths of the House, no doubt, did, that he (Mr. Littleton) then stated, that the question of appropriation was a separate and distinct question? And if the hon. add gallant Gentleman did remember this, on what principle could he reconcile to himself the language that he had used, when he stepped forward and told them that he thought, up to this moment, he had been acting with gentlemen? The hon. and gallant Gentleman having so expressed himself, he (Mr. Littleton) would declare
 677
 Mr. Littleton  would not trouble the House for more than two minutes. The hon. member for Limerick had urged the authority of the grand jury of Limerick against his (Mr. Littleton's) Bill; but it would appear that the grand jury were equally averse to the plan of the hon. Member. The immediate object of his
 671
 Mr. Denis O'Connor  regretted, that he was compelled, in the discharge of the duty he owed to his constituents, to withhold his support from the Bill under the consideration of the House. He wished he could support it, because it was introduced by the present right hon. Secretary for Ireland, who, he felt convinced, was actuated by a sincere desire to ameliorate the condition of that country, and because it professed to have for its object the abolition of the evils of that tithe system, which contributed, as had been justly observed, more than any other cause whatsoever, to fill with misery and crime a country that would have otherwise been peaceful, prosperous, and united. The right hon. Secretary sadly miscalculated the advantages which he anticipated from the present Bill. It would be far from satisfactory, and, therefore, could not be final, and nothing, in his opinion, could be more pregnant with evil than passing laws affecting property of any description which involved in
 634 635 iota l l l l l bonâ fide 636 637 638
 Mr. Shaw  said, that before he replied to the observations of the hon. and learned Gentleman, he would shortly state the reason of the vote he meant to give. He objected strongly to many of the provisions of the Bill; he thought them unreasonable, and unjust to the clergy of Ireland; they deducted nominally one-fifth from their income; but if those provisions were not modified or altered in Committee, the real deduction would be nearly one-half. In the first place, it was made upon an already reduced income; in all cases—or, at least, nineteen out of twenty—where voluntary compositions had been entered into, the clergy had made large abatements from their just demands, in order to ensure certainty and facility, as they were then led to suppose, in the
 655 656 l l l 657 658 659
 Mr. Sinclair  said, that he should endeavour at that late hour to consult the convenience of the House, and do justice to his own feelings, by expressing his views as briefly as possible. If he had been so fortunate as to have addressed the House at an earlier period, he would have adduced many arguments, and enforced them by facts, into which he should then very slightly enter; more especially as his noble friend had intimated to him, that the Motion would be acquiesced in by the Government. It would be borne in mind, that he did not rise for the purpose of proposing, that an increase should be made to the salaries of the eminent public functionaries, in whose behalf he esteemed it a high honour to appear. All that he claimed—and he did not see on what grounds such a reasonable demand could be resisted—was a strict and dispassionate inquiry. And he should appeal in no degree  ad misericordiam ad justitiam 681 l anxietate carens animus delectus personœ 682 l pari passu l l l 683 l
 Mr. Barron  also thought, that what had fallen from the noble Lord would do more good in Ireland than all the Acts of Parliament which had been passed for years. The people of Ireland, he believed, would not seek a separation, but they were sick of demanding justice which was always refused. The speech of the noble Lord, however, would gain millions of hearts in that country. He did not advocate the separate interests of the landlords; he did not wish that one shilling should go into their pockets. All he asked was first, to settle the tithe upon an equitable principle, and secondly, when settled as to amount, that there should be a fair and equitable adjustment of the mode in which it should be distributed for useful public purposes.
 Mr. James Oswald  said, I have been requested to support the prayer of the petition from Glasgow, and I regret much, that while I concur with them on many points, I cannot go along with them in all the views which they have adopted. It appears to me, that the petitioners would have acted more wisely had they limited the prayer of their petition to the redress of grievances and the reformation of abuses. I am warranted in saying this, as I find large bodies of Dissenters who disapprove of a portion of the petition. There has hitherto existed in Scotland an exceedingly good understanding between the Church and the Dissenters. This, petition has, in my mind, tended to diminish that good feeling. The petitioners propose to separate the Church from the State—in other words, to apply the revenues of the Church to State purposes. It is very easy to make such a proposition, but is it wise to do so now, or is it all likely that such a proposal will be adopted? The Church is a very powerful body, and very powerful as a political body, independently of all considerations connected with religion. Is it likely that this very powerful body will quietly, and at once, relinquish its great power and influence? In my opinion, it will not. I feel quite satisfied, that any attempt to press such a measure would lead immediately to a fierce collision between the two parties, and would endanger the peace and tranquillity of the country. Sir, it is my determination to resist everything that will in my mind tend to so lamentable a result. While I say this, and while I declare my determination not to lend my aid to any measure which will tend to overthrow the Established Church. I am, at the same time, ready to admit that, in my opinion, the petitioners have in principle the best of the argument. If I am right in this opinion, I conceive that I am also warranted in believing, that in this age of information
 622
 Mr. Lalor  seconded the Amendment. The Irish people would never endure, that such a sum of money should be drawn from their property to be lavished on men who were the bitter foes of their country, who heaped all kinds of contumely and oppression upon them. Tithes were not only one-tenth of the value of the land of the country, but of the labour and capital of the poor. But, great as was that hardship, it was a folly to suppose, that it was the amount that was complained of. No; it was the appropriation of it to such men as the Protestant clergy. There was another fallacy, in supposing, that the tithe composition was entered into voluntarily. No such thing. At first twenty-two of the highest rate-payers were empowered to effect a composition. After a few years' experience, it was found expedient to add to them those who possessed large property in the parish—Magistrates and others. These, in a short time, bore down the twenty-two, and thus compositions were carried against the wish and interest of the parishioners. In the parish where he resided, the clergyman, who was a pluralist, and an absentee for thirty years, proposed a composition to the amount of 1,100 l l l 632
 Mr. Sheil  would only say three words. The right hon. Gentleman had said, he did not agree with the Paymaster of the Forces. Did he mean to censure a Cabinet Minister? [" Oh, oh! and cries of Spoke Question 672
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that if the plan of the hon. and learned member for Dublin would settle this question for ever, he would not say that he would object to paying one-fifth of this burthen from the public funds of the empire, though upon principle he objected to taxing the people of England and Scotland for the benefit of the people of Ireland. After what had passed that night, he trusted that the hon. and learned Gentleman would not, on any future occasion, state that the affairs of Ireland were neglected in that House. He contended that, on the present occasion, the House had nothing to do with the appropriation of the tithes. The House was bound, however, to protect the fund to be derived from them, whether that fund was to be appropriated hereafter to the Protestant Church or to the Roman Catholic Church in conjunction with the Protestant Church, or to the general purposes of the country at large. Ireland was interested in having that fund preserved, and it could not be better preserved than by fixing it as a land-tax on Ireland. Though he intended voting for the second reading of this Bill, there was one point connected with it, on the expediency of which he entertained some doubt. He doubted whether the House should invest the funds intended for the future support of the clergy in land, and his doubts were founded on the unthrifty management which had been the lot of the Bishops' lands universally in Ireland. He hoped, therefore, that this part of the Bill would be well considered in the Committee. He also trusted, that Parliament would, at no distant day, consider whether the enormous endowments of the Church of Ireland, so disproportionate to the amount of the Protestant population, ought to be continued.
 Mr. Robert Wallace  opposed the Bill. He did not Wonder that it was opposed by the Irish Members, when it was intended to secure a large revenue to a sinecure Church, the only duty of which was to keep alive hostility and discord in the country. He considered that the Ministers did hot act wisely by persisting in the measure.
 Mr. Fitzgerald  said; Sir, that this Bill has caused much dissatisfaction in Ireland is beyond all doubt, and I fear much it will also create great disappointment; for, after the Address to his Majesty, lately passed by the House, the people of Ireland have reason to expect, that when the grievance which, above all others, has oppressed them the most, is under consideration, a substantial remedy would at once be applied, thereby proving that the Imperial Parliament deserved the confidence they claimed from my countrymen, when legislating for them. It is true, Sir, that we have had, in the last five or six years, many enactments on tithes; but it is equally a matter of notoriety that they all failed—and why? Because while the supporters of them professed that they
 641 l l l l l 642 l l
 Mr. Gisborne  rose to make a few observations upon the petitions he had presented to the House from the Dissenters of various parts of the country. He supported the petitions so far as they prayed for the redress of all practical grievances; but as a separation between Church and State could not be effected without lacerating the religious feelings of an immense portion of the community, he was opposed to the prayer of all petitions that desired a severance of Church and State. His own opinion certainly was hostile to the union between Church and State, but he felt himself bound to pay some attention to the long established custom of the country, and to the feelings which that had engendered. Several of the petitioners were impressed with feelings of deep and sincere gratitude towards the two noble Lords he now saw in their places (Lord Althorp and John Russell) for the warm attachment they had on many former occasions evinced towards the Dissenters; and while they regretted, that very trifling measures of relief had been introduced by his Majesty's Government, they expressed a hope that those noble Lords would see the justice of further concession to the well-founded claims of the Dissenters.
 Mr. Gillon  said, that the petitions he had that morning presented from that part of the empire to which he had the honour to belong, were signed by no fewer than 50,000 persons, of the greatest respectability and character. Those petitions had come from Glasgow, and he hoped they would receive from that House the attention to which they were entitled. He trusted, that these petitions, emanating from so large and so respectable a body of his countrymen, would meet with the fair and dispassionate consideration of the House. He trusted, that hon. Members would keep their minds open to reason and argument, however strongly biassed they might be on the subject of Church Establishments; at the same time that he felt assured there was no subject on which the opinions of Members of that House, and the public out of doors, so widely differed. In formerly presenting petitions of a similar nature,
 612 613
 Mr. Gillon  would detain the House but a very few minutes in bringing forward the Amendment to the Motion of his hon. friend, of which he had given notice. He could scarcely suppose, that his hon. friend was serious in the proposition he made to augment, at a period like this, the salaries of the Scotch Judges, when the profits of capital, the rents of land, the products of industry, and the wages of labour, had sunk to so low a scale. He begged to state to the House
 684 l l l l l l l l s 685 d
 Mr. W. Roche  said: Not being personally connected with Tithes or Church property, I shall refrain from entering into a detail of their practical evils and results which, during the two nights' discussion on the subject, have been so forcibly and amply demonstrated to the House; but, Sir, although I shall thus refrain from details, I cannot forbear observing, as regards the principle upon which that impost and mass of property are founded, that religion never can become what its Almighty author designed it to be, "the tranquiliser of our passions, prejudices, and animosities;" the promoter of our social harmony and happiness, instead of, as it often unnaturally and unfortunately does in these countries, augment and embitter every other source of discontent or collision, until every class of Christians cease to tax and harass their neighbour, by compelling him to support doctrines from which he conscientiously dissents, while, from duty and inclination, he is called upon to support those his conscience and feelings concur in, or, in other words, until each sect maintains its own institutions, that only sound, moral, and honest maxim, one to which the conviction of mankind is every day advancing, as is demonstrated by the rapidly increasing representations and petitions to that effect from all classes of Dissenters. Sir, in every country where this honest and conscientious principle prevails, we have indubitable proofs of its value and advantages; nor can even the spiritual tenets of any particular sect have fair play, while, as in the Established Church, the sense of injustice and antipathy arising from unfair and compulsory support opposes calm inquiry at the very threshold. But, Sir, until this fair and happier principle be recognized and adopted, I feel it to be my duty to prefer
 639
 The Speaker : Certainly. The hon. Member may be allowed to explain what he intended to say, but he cannot enlarge upon the words he used.
 The Speaker  said, he was sure, that if any hon. Member had been guilty of disrespect to the House at any time, the House would not have failed to take notice of it at the time.
 Sir Francis Burdett  said, that, in the
 667
 Sir Henry Willoughby  said, that he should studiously avoid the question of appropriation: the only question properly before them was, whether the Bill tended to the beneficial commutation of tithes. The commutation provided for in the Bill appeared to him to be the best basis on which tithes could be settled in Ireland, accompanied as it was, by a table of reduction, and by an easy power of redemption. The hon. member for Tipperary and other hon. Gentlemen had, with great ability, pointed out what they considered the defects of the present Bill; but they offered to the House no suggestions of their own for a better system of procedure. Though they might not desire to destroy the Irish Church, the tendency of the course they were pursuing was unquestionably to have that effect. The hon. and learned member for Dublin having been examined before a Committee of the House on the 11th of March, 1825, said, in his evidence—"The Catholic people of Ireland are not anxious to transfer the property of the Church into other hands; and if the people of England were acquainted with that fact, they would not be so opposed as they are to the Catholic claims." He might assert, then, on the best testimony, that, at all events, at the time to which he had alluded, the Catholics of Ireland did not seek a different appropriation of the Church property. Gentlemen also declared that they had no wish to transfer tithes to the landlords; but, certainly, from the
 633
 Sir Richard Vyvyan  said, he had presented many petitions in support of the Church, all of which had his most cordial concurrence. So long as the country was governed by a King, that King must be of some religion, therefore the Church and State must be connected until the country changed from a monarchy to a republic.
 Lord Althorp  admitted to the hon. Member that very considerable grievances existed on the subject of marriage. He did think it a great grievance on the Dissenters of every description to compel them to go to a Church from which they differed for the performance of what could not be fairly termed a civil ceremony, but was more properly one of a religious nature. The Bill of his noble friend removed those grievances; for although the performance of the rite of marriage was purely religious, such could not be said of the publication of bans. The Government had proposed to relieve the Dissenters in this respect, but it was well known, that the Dissenters were dissatisfied with the proposed measure on the ground that it did not go the whole length of their desires. It therefore became useless to pass a Bill of that nature. With respect to an entire separation of the Church and State—that was to say, the destruction of the established religion of the country—he was not prepared to concur in any proposition that would have that effect. The hon. member for Westminster had said, that half measures on this subject were impolitic, and that it was not till after the introduction of the Dissenters' Marriage Bill that the language of the Dissenters had assumed so violent a tone. It was, however, well-known, that such language was used long before the introduction of that Bill. It was used when it became generally known, that it was not the intention of Government to put down the Established Church. He had often stated in that House, that he was prepared to join with the Dissenters in any measures for the redress of all practical grievances, whether it was with respect to the celebration of marriage, the registration of births and burials, or the payment of Church-rates; but that those measures must be consistent with the preservation of the Church Establishment. He had hoped that the Dissenters would have been
 621
 Lord Althorp  said, that the hon. and learned Member who spoke last had certainly not spoken so much to the question as to the Cabinet. Before he, as one of the Ministers, answered his questions to the Cabinet, he would take occasion to notice some of the points in debate. The Bill now before the House was for the purpose of securing the revenues of the Church in Ireland to the clergy, which they were far from being secured in the possession of now. It was not the intention of Government to go any further at present than to secure these revenues. The Bill also provided for the redemption of the tax which was to be imposed on the land in lieu of tithes. He conceived that the first of these objects the Government was bound to effect, and nothing less than bound by their duty to do so. And, with respect to the second provision, he considered that the interests of Ireland were thereby consulted, and that it would prove ultimately highly beneficial to the people to be able to redeem the tithe tax at any future period. It had been stated in debate by an hon. Member, that the plan of the hon. member for
 673 674
 Lord Ebrington  considered the question of appropriation had been left an open question; if he had not so understood it, the Bill would never have obtained his support.
 Mr. John Smith  opposed the Bill. If it were passed, the effect would be the creation of twenty new banks in London, and the consequent withdrawal of the deposits from the Bank of England. The right hon. Baronet, the member for Tam-worth, in his (Mr. Smith's) opinion, had done an effectual service to the country by the introduction of that Bill which sup-
 693 l
 Mr. Baring  thought the whole question for the House to consider was, whether the present Bill interfered with the privileges of the Bank of England. He denied that it interfered with its legal privileges, and on this point he differed totally with the noble Lord opposite. There was a particular restriction in the clause which had been alluded to against the issuing of notes; and that being the only restriction, it was clear, that banks might be established, provided they did not interfere with that restriction. He did not think either the Bank of England or the private banks of London would be injured by the Bill, and it was absurd to assume the nature of our engagements with the Bank of England as a reason for not doing a simple act of justice.
 Mr. Pryme  could not see on what ground a Bill like the present was to be rejected, and therefore he should vote for the second reading.
 Mr. Cayley  conceived, that the extension of such an establishment would make the Bank of England more liberal in its transactions.
 Mr. Duncombe  said, that although he looked upon the present measure as one of the greatest importance to the country generally, yet he should not trespass more than a very few minutes on the attention of the House, because the subject had already undergone such a full and ample discussion. He should feel, however, that he was abandoning his duty to his constituents, and as a Member of that House if he did not offer a few remarks before the discussion closed. He thought he had a just right to complain of the conduct of the hon. and learned member for Southwark, to whom a representation had been made, that the system of registration at present established in Yorkshire, had perfectly succeeded, and was found to work well for the advantage of the property of the county, and requesting that that county might be excluded from the provisions of the Bill now before the House. This application the hon. and learned Gentleman had, in his discretion, thought proper to reject, without having one single reason, or at least without assigning any, for doing so. The hon. and learned Gentleman had certainly said, that he did not consider the system of registration in Yorkshire, so perfect as had been represented; but this objection came with a very bad grace from the hon. and learned Gentleman, because it undoubtedly was owing to the agitation which he had himself created and kept up on this subject, that many improvements which were in contemplation in the registration of Yorkshire were not proceeded with and completed. He was happy to state, that the people of Yorkshire were, almost to a man, unanimous in their reprobation of the present Bill. A number of petitions had been presented from various parts of the country against the measure. He had himself presented some; and the hon. Members for the East and West Ridings presented several others, praying that the people of that country might not be compelled to resign to the keeping of the hon. and learned Member, or to any other person all their title deeds. The opinion of Sir Edward Sugden on this measure was decidedly opposed to the propriety of such an enactment. The hon. and learned Gentleman might sneer at the opinion of such a man as Sir Edward Sugden; but he (Mr. Duncombe) believed that few men could be found who would disregard the legal ad-
 729
 The Solicitor General  observed that this Bill had hitherto been debated upon grounds which had diverted the House from the consideration of the real point at issue. There were two distinct points involved in this Bill—first, whether there should be a registry at all; and secondly, if there was to be a registry, was the mode of accomplishing it proposed in the present Bill the best mode that could be devised? From the speeches which had been that night delivered in the House, one would think, that no doubt existed as to the propriety of establishing a registry, but that all the difficulty arose about its details. He was afraid, however, that when the House divided, it would turn out that there were many who thought that we ought to have no registry at all. There was no question in which the landed interest were so deeply interested, as that which would enable them to have their titles so ready as to be producible at a
 730 731
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  said, that, within a twelvemonth after the Government had entered into an arrangement by which the Bank of England gave up a sum of 120,000 l 694
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  defended the conduct of the London and Westminster bank from the imputations of the hon. Member (Alderman Thompson) who had last spoken. The hon. Member called upon the House to keep faith with the Bank. He called upon the noble Lord to keep faith with the public.
 Mr. Kennedy  said, as he was the only English Member who voted for the Motion of the member for Dublin, he felt it necessary to take some notice of the comments which a noble and learned Lord was pleased to make upon his conduct in another place. He could not believe, that the observations to which he alluded were meant to intimidate him, or that it was
 695 696
 Mr. Brougham  moved the Order of the Day, for the second reading of the General Registry of Deeds Bill. Upon doing so, he said, that, notwithstanding the vast number of petitions against the Bill, he could not feel altogether so disheartened as to suppose that the measure was now utterly destroyed, or to conclude that even if it failed for the present, it would not be in his power successfully to propose it upon some future occasion. Although he did not agree with a certain noble person in thinking that the petitions of the people were little better than waste paper, yet he must be allowed to say, that upon a question like the present, feelings of interest might be very readily excited and petitions procured against a measure good in itself, because it was not sufficiently understood throughout the country. He considered it quite impossible that anybody who had attended to the subject, or who had an interest in land, could doubt that the principle of registration was a good one. They might differ as to the mode. Some might wish to have all deeds sent up to London—others might prefer a system of district registration to one of central registration—others again, like his hon. friend oppo-
 697 698 699 700 701 l s 702 703 704
 Mr. Heathcote  felt it his imperative duty to oppose the second reading of this Bill. With reference to what the hon. and learned Member had said relative to accidents arising from the loss or concealment of deeds, he must observe, that he had had the honour to present several petitions against the measure, from persons who he knew were incapable of stating a falsehood, which asserted that instances of that kind were extremely rare. If, however, the fact were as stated by the hon. and learned Member, the remedy proposed was worse than the disease. It appeared to him, that the hon. and learned Member's plan, so far from diminishing the number of accidents, would considerably increase them. It was absurd to suppose, that many deeds would not be lost in the course of their transmission to London, and that the most unfortunate results might not ensue from clerical errors in transacting the immense mass of business which would press upon the London office. A central office might be suitable to a small country like Scotland, but was wholly in-
 705
 Mr. Cayley  said, that the measure which he had the honour to introduce was founded upon the principle of locality. He had, however, no objection to act upon the hint
 706 707 l l l l s l s l s l s d s d l s d l s d l s s s d l s l s 708 709 in fieri 710 711 712 713
 Mr. Brougham  interposed to say, that Sir Edward Sugden had been invited to attend the Committee, but had declined to be examined.
 Mr. Cayley  was not aware of the circumstance just mentioned. If the present Bill went into Committee,—that was, if they were to have any registration at all, it would be matter for the Committee to determine whether it should be a compulsory or an enabling Bill. It was clear, that a Bill of some sort they must have; and to prevent the measure of the hon. and learned Gentleman being brought before them Session after Session, they could not do better than adopt one of local registration. It would be a plan more consonant with the habits and feelings of the people of England, who at all times desired to have their affairs brought home as near to their own doors as possible. It had been said, that registration would be advantageous to the landed interest. In the present depressed state of that interest, he believed there was no one legislative measure capable of doing them so much service as a good system of registration. At the late meeting of the West Riding of Yorkshire, it was universally admitted, that the effect of the system of registration in that district had been to raise the value of land. Not only could money be obtained on mortgage with more facility than before, but a rate of interest one-half or a quarter per cent lower than before. If the Parliament were to adopt the principle of registration which prevailed in that part of the country and establish it generally, he was perfectly satisfied, that it would be attended with the most beneficial results to the agricultural interest throughout the kingdom. He had troubled the House at so much length from a desire to save their time upon another occasion, for it would be quite as well to take the debate then as at any other time. He concluded by seconding the Amendment.
 Sir George Strickland  said, that he should with great reluctance have trespassed on the House if he had not devoted as much time as possible to the question. He could not help congratulating the House and the country at large upon the
 714 715 716 717 718 719 l 720
 Mr. Brougham , in reply, said, that, after the very full discussion which the subject had received, he should not trespass long on the attention of the House; but, as the observations of the hon. member for Yorkshire might carry some weight with them, he thought it necessary to say a few words on the subject. His hon. friend said, that the only witness whose evidence he (Mr. Brougham) had cited in favour of the plan was Mr. Bell. Now, his only reason for abstaining from further quotations from the evidence given before the Committee was, in order to spare the time of the House. There were no grounds for saying, that Mr. Bell's opinion was unfavourable to the present Bill. Observe what that gentleman stated. The following was a question put to him, with his answer on the subject:—"You have now changed your opinion with respect to the advantage of a metropolitan register over district registers?—Yes; my opinion is still that, until a better plan is pointed out than has been devised at this time, a general register-office would not be useful to the public; but if a better plan can be brought forward, I think it should be adopted; the only practicable plan I have seen is that proposed by this Bill." It was in conformity with the peculiar construction of Mr. Bell's mind always to speak doubtfully on a subject. But observe the answer which Mr. Bell gave to a subsequent question:—"You do not precisely say that you enter into the full merits of this plan?—I think I understand it; I have read it several times
 739 bona fide 740
 Mr. Phillpotts , in seconding the Motion, observed, that the same measure of justice, which had been afforded to London should he extended to the provincial towns.
 Mr. Vernon Smith  said, that if copies of this Bill had been sent, like copies of the Poor-law Amendment Bill, to every town and hamlet in the country, he was sure that they would have had a great number of petitions from them against it. It was a short Bill certainly; but its brevity was the only merit that, in his opinion, it possessed. It proposed to establish the same system in the provincial towns that existed in London; but it was for the House to consider whether regulations which
 742
 Mr. Pryme  would not touch the question of registration, or no registration, but would content himself with pointing out one or two objections which occurred to him on the subject of a metropolitan registry. In every great town where buildings were from time to time erected, it was customary to grant mortgages on such buildings in this way:—a portion only of the total amount was advanced at first, and subsequent advances were made as the buildings proceeded, each advance being endorsed upon the deed according as it was furnished. Now, if this Bill came into operation, there must be eight or ten successive deeds in such cases, or else the lender must trust to the honour of the borrower that he will not, before receiving the last instalment, raise money on the same property by granting another deed. The effect of the proposed system would be to put an end to all such mortgages. He had some acquaintance with the registration carried on under the Bedford Level, which affected the Isle of Ely and its vicinity; and he could say, that although it might have the effect of preventing clandestine deeds, the system had not diminished the expenses
 738
 Mr. Wallace  referred to a plan of Cheltenham, to show, that the limits for the free delivery there were extremely arbitrary and unequal. The pennies levied there for the penny delivery amounted in the year ending 5th of January, 1830, to 92,000; in 1831 to 103,000; in 1832 to 123,000; in 1833 to 146,000; and in 1834 to 167,000. The charge was therefore one of which the inhabitants of Cheltenham felt that they had a right to complain. He begged to ask why were newspapers charged 1 d d
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, that, from personal experience of its necessity, he should support the second reading of the Bill. When residing at Cheltenham, in a house so little remote from the Post-office, that he could scarcely credit the information, that it was not within the town delivery, he found it absolutely necessary, from the lateness of the hour at which his letters and papers were received, to send for them, and had, notwithstanding, the pleasure of paying one penny each. He trusted that the Bill would not be rejected, but if it should, that means would be taken to prevent the evils so justly complained of.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  opposed the Bill. He was led to believe, that the deficiency of revenue which would be occasioned by the hon. Gentleman's Bill, in Cheltenham alone, would amount to 8,000 l l
 Mr. Hughes Hughes , in explanation, said, that one thing, of which he complained, was, that a competent establishment was not kept. He was compelled to send for his letters and papers, or wait their delivery till perhaps one o'clock, which he thought a most unreasonable time.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  would not have risen but to defend himself against the attack made by the hon. and learned civilian upon all who supported the Bill. He would not yield to any one, not even to the hon. and learned Member, in devoted and zealous attachment to the Established Church, of which he trusted every act of his since he had had the honour of a seat in that House, would afford a proof. He would then adduce only one fact in illustration of his reason for supporting this Bill, a fact within his own knowledge, and which occurred in a populous parish with which he was connected. The clergyman of the Established Church being in the habit of addressing the inmates of the workhouse every Thursday evening, many persons out of doors sought admission to this service, and were admitted, in "great numbers, for a considerable period, and until a threat was given of an information;" ever since which it had been considered necessary to admit the nineteen persons who first arrived at the workhouse door, and to refuse admission to all beyond that number. He would ask whether this was a state of the law which should be allowed to continue. He could not sit down without offering the humble tribute of his thanks, and in the name of the Established Church too, to his hon. and learned friend, for the introduction of this most necessary measure, which should have his warmest support.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  opposed the Bill. He never could give his consent to any measure that would permit laymen, or individuals not regularly ordained, to preach the gospel. In whatever manner, and to whatever extent, the present Bill might be modified, he never could give his assent to its adoption.
 Mr. Pryme  supported the Bill, and remarked, that he knew an instance of a curate, serving the duties of the Established Church, being placed under considerable personal difficulties from the operation of the existing laws, and the liability to which he was exposed.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, that, at that late hour of the night, he would only state his reason for submitting to the House the Motion of which he had given notice, that certain unfounded remarks had been made on occasion of the right hon. Secretary for the Treasury on making his recent Motion for a grant to defray the charge of Salaries and Allowances to certain Professors in the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge. His object was, to show, by means of a return, that the vote annually made on this account in each of the last three years, bore no comparison to the amount received from the Universities for Duty paid during the same period, on the Admission or Matriculation of Members on the Grant of Degrees, and on Testimonials or Certificates of Admission to Degrees; and that, therefore, in a pecuniary point of view, as well as in so many other respects, the country was indebted to the Universities, and not the Universities to the public. He moved, that there be laid before the House a return, showing the amount of the grant made by Parliament in each of the last three years, to defray the charge of salaries and allowances to certain professors in the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, the manner of its appropriation, the number of Members admitted to, and of degrees granted by, each of those Universities, and also of testimonials or certificates of admission to degrees given, during the same period; distinguishing each year, and each class of degree, the amount of duty payable respectively on the admission or matriculation of members, and
 748
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, that the part of his Motion to which the right hon. Secretary had thought fit to object would scarcely add ten lines to the length of the return, and he had wished to have placed the receipts and payments in juxta-position, but if the right hon. Gentleman persisted in his objection, he must, of course, agree to strike out the first three lines of his Motion.
 Lord Robert Grosvenor  said, that he was Chairman of the Committee on a General Register of Deeds Bill, and that nothing could be clearer or more conclusive than the evidence of Mr. Bell, who certainly could not be called a reluctant witness. His evidence, and that of Mr. Duckworth had completely satisfied him (Lord Robert Grosvenor), and enabled him to make up his mind on the subject. No consideration should induce him to refuse his support to the present measure. He was fully convinced of the great loss and injury and gross fraud which were caused by the present system; and considering the extent and amount of them he could not conceive on what ground gentlemen resisted the principle of a measure which was calculated to remedy the evil.
 Lord William Lennox  would ask the House whether the hon. Member was justified in calling Sir F. Freeling the Postmaster-General. He never took up his papers in the morning, that he did not find the name of the hon. member for Greenock there with some notice of Motion for inquiry with respect to the Post-office. He wished to God, that the hon. Member would bring forward that inquiry at once in some tangible shape, instead of indulging, as he had on the present occasion, in vague generalities and declamation. His noble relative was ready to meet any inquiry. With respect to the Bill immediately before the House, he felt, that the details of it were very ineffective, while, as to the principle, it was, as had been stated by the hon. member for Northampton, a question of revenue.
 Mr. Lynch  said, that no person entertained greater respect than himself for the opinions of Sir E. Sugden and Mr. Preston, but it so happened that he could, on this question also, quote opinions of able men on the other side. He might call in evidence, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Humphries, and Sir Samuel Romilly; and he was enabled to state, that no one was more strongly in favour of registration of deeds than the late Mr. Butler. Of the two modes of registration suggested, he confessed, that he preferred metropolitan to local registration; but let him see the deeds deposited and enrolled, and also a good index provided, and he would not object to local registration. For many reasons, metropolitan registration was the most advisable, and that House ought not to legislate on the chance of a civil war, or the contingency of a tumult. The possibility of a rebellion might as well be urged as a reason for not permitting wills to be deposited in Doctors' Commons. Besides, was there no danger of riots in market-towns in the country? Had no tumults occurred at Bristol or at Nottingham? He should not therefore suffer himself to be shaken in his conviction of the advantage of establishing a metropolitan registry-office, by the assertion that it might be in danger, in the event of a civil war breaking out. An hon. gentleman had expressed an apprehension, that
 721 722 l Hear 723 l 724
 Mr. Ayshford Sanford  could not concur in the view taken by those who saw such advantages in the Bill. He had heard much about security of property in Yorkshire in consequence of the system of registration adopted in that county, but he would venture to say, that property was not a whit more secure in Yorkshire than any other county in England. He did not think, that property in Yorkshire was worth a single year's purchase more than that of any other county. The best proof of this was to be found in public feeling, and public opinion, both of which were in his favour upon this point; and, therefore, this was no argument in support of local registration. As to the possession of deeds, he believed, that few deeds remained long in the hands of their owners after obtaining possession of the property; they must pass into other hands before they became, if he might say so, legally his. The theory of registration was one thing, and the practical effect of it, together with the present expenses of conveyancing, was another thing. A very large proportion of the transfer of property did not take place in London, but in the country; and the country practitioners were quite competent to discharge their duty in the most effectual manner to their constituents. Recitals were necessary to deeds, particularly if titles were of ancient date; and even at so recent a date as twenty years gone by. The proposed registration would be attended with very considerable expense, and that expense, the majority of persons having an interest in conveyances and estates were not disposed to bear. He considered, that the proposed Bill, or any other founded upon similar principles, would prove prejudicial to the interests of the public. Whenever any Bill likely to do away with abuses, could be introduced upon this subject, he would not oppose his individual opinion against that of lawyers of respectability,
 Mr. Finch  supported the Bill. He could conceive no law more tyrannical than the present in respect to assemblies for religious worship.
 Mr. Aglionby  supported the Bill, and observed, that he was at a loss to conceive the possibility of the occurrence of the danger which had apparently been anticipated by the hon. and learned member for the Tower Hamlets. He almost doubted his own senses when he heard the learned Gentleman make that remark, and thought there must be something in the Bill which he could not read.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that the Bill was objectionable in form, but he would support the principle of the Bill.
 Mr. Warburton  suggested, that as he understood Bills directed to the same object were multitudinous in this and the other House of Parliament, it would be advisable that every hon. Member should introduce a Bill of his own, and that from the collection some measure might be adopted.
 Mr. Warburton  did not rise to support the Bill, but merely to make a statement on the part of the gallant Admiral, the member for Devonport, which his absence from the House prevented him from making in person. That statement was, that the hamlet of Stonehouse, situated between Plymouth and Devonport, with no less than 40,000 inhabitants, many of whom were retired officers, would not have to pay, as at present, a penny on the delivery of letters and newspapers, if a post-office was established there in the mail coach road. The answer which had been given by the Post-office to a representation from the inhabitants on the subject was, that the proposed change might be a convenience to them; but it were resisted on the ground, that it would diminish the revenue. Now, where there were 40,000 inhabitants, many of whom, as he had stated, were retired officers, to whom a penny was a matter of consideration, such an alteration should not on such a ground be resisted.
 Mr. H. Curteis  suggested the propriety of postponing all proceedings on the Bill
 747
 Mr. Hardy  said, that he would willingly postpone the second reading, if there was any new principle in the Bill; but, under the existing laws, teaching and preaching were allowed, yet praying was visited by a penalty of 20 l
 Mr. Hume  would only occupy the time of the House for a few moments, while he begged to protest against the assertion of the hon. Baronet (Sir John Wrottesley) that an Act of Parliament prevented the passing of this Bill. The principle of it was one of justice; it was not the Company's interests which were consulted, but the public advantage, in affording a facility to any persons wishing to embark capital in the banking system. He was surprised at the opposition given to the Bill by the noble Lord (Lord Althorp), for the measure was one of public utility and justice. The monopolists were protected, but the public were neglected, by the course of the noble Lord; and he hoped that the House would give the Company that facility which all joint-stock companies should have.
 Mr. Pease  objected to the Bill. Why should the freeholders of this country surrender their rights as Englishmen for a security of which they did not see the use, and of which they did not appreciate the value? There were two principles involved in this Bill—first, the principle of registration generally; and secondly, the principle of a metropolitan registration. To the last his constituents objected in the strongest manner. They stated, that they resided at a great distance from the metropolis—that they would be put to great expense by sending up their deeds to London for registration—that they would incur great risk of losing them in the transmission to and from the metropolis—and that they would be impeded in their efforts to raise money to meet temporary pressure by the necessity of having the loan registered, or be injured in their securities by not having them duly registered. The average expense of each registration in the metropolis, upon the lowest estimate given by the witnesses examined before the Committee, would be 3 l l 732 caveat 733
 Mr. Pease  thought, that, at this time of day, persons ought to be allowed to offer prayers where they pleased.
 Mr. Patrick Stewart  said, that all the Company asked to be given them by the present Bill was, that one of its Members be allowed to sue and be sued in the name of the Company. It was intended to remedy a glaring defect in the law, and the House could not with justice resist the Motion of his hon. friend. He never knew an instance, and he believed there was none on record, of the privilege which this Bill was to confer being refused, and he thought that this was not the occasion to make the exception, when an Establishment was formed of so much advantage to the public. The objections raised by the noble Lord rested more upon private than public grounds, as was proved by the attendance the noble Lord had upon the benches behind him. The noble Lord might have been inadvertent when he made his declarations last year, but it was upon the strength of those declarations, that the London and Westminster Bank was started. The noble Lord, by the speeches he made when the Bank Charter Bill was under discussion, led the House and the country to believe, that the noble Lord considered it lawful for banks with more than six partners to be established. On the faith of that understanding, this Bank had been established. The hon. Member referred to several passages in Lord Althorp's speeches on August 9th, 1833, to show, that the establishment of Banking Companies in the Metropolis was consistent with the law. * * 691 * † s
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that he should vote for the second reading of this Bill, on the ground, that it was a question of registration or no registration, and not a metropolitan or local registration. To the experience derived from Yorkshire and Middlesex, as to the benefit of registration, he could add the experience of Scotland also. The system of registration had existed there for more than two centuries, and owing to its existence every man felt that his title to his property was secure. Every man there also felt, that if he had occasion to borrow money on his estate, in justice he ought not to conceal from the lender the encumbrances which he had placed upon it. It was said by some hon. Members, as an objection to this Bill, that they must deposit their title-deeds in the general registry before they could obtain mortgages; now, that he denied, for he held himself title-deeds, and if others also held theirs, without any necessity for raising money upon them, they would not be under any necessity of depositing them in any registry, whether district or metropolitan. If Gentlemen wanted to borrow money, and intended to deal fairly with the lenders, they ought not to refuse showing their title-deeds. It was truly said, that the law, as it now existed, was very defective upon the subject of proof of title between lenders and purchasers, inasmuch as it was expected, that purchasers were presumed to know the actual amount of encumbrances upon estates on which they lent money. But that, under the present system, was im-
 735
 Dr. Lushington  said, that places of worship could be licensed, and preachers also, at a trifling expense; whereas this Bill went to remove all impediments to meetings with the ostensible design of religious worship, but which might be perverted to other purposes. He could hardly conceive a Bill more destructive of the principles on which the Church of England was established. He moved, that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 Mr. Gisborne  said, this question was opposed by the country bankers, by the London bankers, by the Bank of England, and by the noble Lord, (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) but he hoped the latter was not a Government opposition; but a local one only. The article in which banks traded, was the circulation of the country, which ought not to be refused one class of his Majesty's subjects any more than another. The Act said, that banks might be established, and the noble Lord said so too, but he added, "You shall be virtually outlaws." He (Mr. Gisborne) was willing to be bound by the words of the Act, but not by any private understanding between the noble Lord and the Bank of England. He could not believe the majority of that House would oppose this Bill, which was similar to those incorporating the Scottish banks, and Insurance Companies. The Liverpool Banking Company was exactly a case in point. It was supported both by reason and precedent, and should have his support.
 Mr. Spring Rice  observed, that there never had been an instance in any public department in which greater efforts had been made by the head of it to facilitate the convenience of the public than that over which his noble friend (the Postmaster-General) presided.
 Mr. Spring Rice  objected to the first part of the Motion; such a return being already before the House, the expense of reprinting it should be avoided.
 Mr. Tooke  said, that the possessors of landed property were desirous, that their affairs should not be interfered with, and exposed in the manner proposed by means of a general registry. The effect of such a measure would be to deprive persons of the facilities possessed for borrowing money on equitable mortgages, because the evidence to be obtained in the Registration-office would not satisfy the lender, and duplicates were no security. He was not disposed to concede the convenience of any registration whatever. He desired time, in order to enable them to judge of the effect of the several measures recently adopted with respect to real property, and for the improvement of conveyancing—measures to which it was necessary to give a trial before adopting such a system as was now proposed. He wished to avoid the risk of an experiment from which there would be no means of retreating if it were found unsuccessful. The hon. member for Southwark had himself stated in the strongest manner the appalling consequences of the measure not being perfect, and the indexes free from error. This admission showed the danger of adopting the plan. Look at the consequence of clerical errors in the Registration-office—the effect would be to throw the burthen of all losses incurred by them upon the Consolidated Fund. Petitions had been presented from every quarter of England,
 736 737
 Sir Francis Burdett  complained of the illiberality which characterised the transactions of the Bank of England, and which would be obviated by the establishment of banks like that under the consideration of the House. He cordially supported the second reading of the Bill.
 Mr. John Romilly  said, that his bias was in favour of metropolitan registration; but it was not so strong as to make him determined to reject the Bill of the hon. member for Yorkshire, if he could not obtain that of the hon. and learned member for Southwark. He was, however, strongly of opinion, that registration should take place either by a deposit of the original deeds, or exact copies of them, which should be equally valid with the originals in a court of law. He believed, that registration would be attended with this good effect, that, after the lapse of a certain time—twenty years for instance—perfect security of title would be obtained. The main object of the measure was, to protect the real  bonâ fide 726 l l 727
 Sir John Wrottesley  said, he had stated before, that the "great panic" arose out of the misconduct of the Bank of England, which, in order to get itself out of a scrape, sacrificed the country bankers. But while he said that, he was a friend to justice, and must say, in his opinion, that the House had no power to recognise the establishment of any Banking Company within sixty-five miles of London. As to the success of the Scottish system, that was more to be attributed to the careful habits of the people, than to its intrinsic merit. The Parliament had sanctioned
 * † 692
 Mr. Rolfe  only rose to repel, with indignation, the insinuation of the hon. member for Truro, that the members of the Real Property Commission had recommended a measure of registration, in order that they might appear to earn their money by doing something. Gentlemen more honourable than the Commissioners, or who had devoted themselves more assiduously to the discharge of the duties assigned them, could not be found.
 Mr. Clay  said, in rising to move the second reading of the Bill for enabling the London and Westminster Bank to sue and be sued in the name of its Chairman, he
 687 688
 Sir William Horne  was understood to express an opinion not very favourable to registration; but when he reflected that the system of registration had worked for a century in Yorkshire without any complaint being made against it—when he reflected that it had also been in force for many years in the metropolitan county—and when he also reflected, that it was a system which had long been successfully established in the sister country,—he was not bold enough to put his own private opinion against the establishment of a system, which, in various parts of the empire, had practically worked so well. He therefore felt it to be his duty to vote for the second reading of this Bill. He should give that vote with the less reluct-
 734
 Lord Althorp  said, that the hon. member for the Tower Hamlets had represented him as having no wish to prevent competition in banking establishments. But the hon. Member certainly might have known that, although he had no objection to a competition between banks that did not issue their own notes, between those which did issue their own notes he had stated that he entertained strong objections to a competition. He confessed he did not think, that the public would derive any advantage from such a competition; on the contrary, he could easily conceive that such a competition might in many instances be injurious, because the effect might be, to generate and continue an excessive issue of paper money in order to accommodate the public. He thought he could prove, that it would have a tendency
 689 690
 Lord Morpeth  had no difficulty in stating, that the sense of that riding of Yorkshire which he had the honour to represent, and which it was hardly necessary for him to say contained a number of persons of large landed property, was almost unanimous against the Bill of his hon. and learned friend, the member for Southwark; a feeling which he had no doubt that riding only shared in common with the other ridings of the important county of Yorkshire. He thought, it could not be denied that the wishes of the constituency ought to have great weight with every member of that House, in reference to all matters which bore on private concerns, and on the administration of property. Unquestionably, the sense of the people of Yorkshire was favourable to the system of registration which they possessed, and not to the system proposed by the Bill of his hon. and learned friend. They were very willing to amend any defects which might appear in their present system, but the system itself they were desirous of retaining. It was his intention, therefore, to vote, not for the Bill of his hon. and learned friend, the member for Southwark, but for the Bill of the hon. member for the north riding of Yorkshire, in order that an opportunity might be afforded of considering how far the principle of registration contained in that Bill might be applied to certain local districts; leaving open other points for future settlement. Whatever might be said in favour of metropolitan registration—and many very plausible arguments had already been stated in favour of it—it would undoubtedly be exceedingly onerous in many respects, especially to small landed proprietors, and it would be difficult to guard against the inquisition into every man's property which might be undertaken by any designing or curious or otiose individual. He did not think, that the principle of registration could be carried beneficially
 725
 Lord Morpeth  hoped, that the Bill would be allowed to be brought in. No hon. Member would be compromised by assenting to such a course, and therefore the approbation of the measure would so far be qualified.
 Lord Sandon  thought, that sufficient time had not been given for considering and consulting with members of the Church of England upon the question, and he hoped, therefore, that time would be given by postponing the second reading. He should, therefore, move the adjournment of the debate.
 Colonel Evans  also opposed this Bill, as it was his intention to oppose several other Inclosure Bills, now in progress through the House, for the reasons stated by the hon. Member who spoke last—namely, because he considered it an infringement of the rights of the poor. The hon. member for Berkshire (Mr. Palmer) had stated, that if the land were enclosed, it would become greatly increased in value, by being rendered productive. The petitions which had been presented to that House, from all parts of the country, complaining of agricultural distress, declared that the best land in the country would scarcely pay the rent, and that, therefore, the present system of Corn-laws must be kept up. He would ask the hon. Member, how that could be reconciled with the pretext set up on the present occasion for depriving the poor of their rights—that the land would be rendered more valuable by the inclosure?
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, that it was never contended in the Committee, that the poorer freeholders would not be injured by the bill. The very fact that the Lord of the Manor had offered them compensation proved, that there must be some
 753
 Mr. Pryme  then rose to bring on his Motion for the repeal of the Act commonly called Home Tooke's Act, prohibiting clergymen from sitting in the House of Commons, provided they are not engaged in the cure of souls. If he were asked, he said, why he wished to restore this privilege to the clergy, his answer was, that it was from no partiality to them, from no personal wish to see them in the House of Commons, but because he was averse from every principle of exclusion, and because he objected to all restrictions, unless some paramount reason could be shewn for maintaining them. Had this exclusion existed with respect to physicians or lawyers, he should have been just as anxious for its abrogation. It was the natural right of every man to be returned to Parliament—it was the natural right of electors to enjoy their suffrages without restraint. The case which led to the enactment which he wished to have repealed, was that of Horne Tooke, who was returned to Parliament in 1801. That distinguished philologist had recommended Lord Camelford (who had had a quarrel with the Minister of the day) to return his black servant as the representative of Old Sarum; but as, on reflection, his Lordship was not willing to go to this extreme, Horne Tooke told him that the next best thing for the country, and the next worst thing for the Minister, would be to return him, and thus he came into Parliament. Lord Temple objected to the return—the matter was referred to a Committee, before whom it was urged that the duties of a Senator would necessarily interfere with the duties of a clergyman, and the reasoning prevailed against the opinions of Mr. Fox, Lord Thurlow, and the most enlightened
 760
 Mr. Baring  was not aware, until he entered the House, that such a subject was to come before it. The case of Horne Tooke was certainly in point, since he was a man who had early entered the Church, and had for many years conscientiously forborne from the discharge of any of the duties of his sacred character. He could not see why such a man should not be allowed to sit in the House of Commons, although it would be unwise to admit any clergymen in the possession of livings, and who were bound to watch over the morality and religion of their parishioners. If the Bill had gone to that length he should have resisted it; but, according to the explanation of the hon. Member, he saw no reason for refusing to allow it to be introduced.
 Mr. Pryme  did not think that a clergyman would suffer anything derogatory to his character by having to undergo the ordeal of a contested election. At the same time, as he perceived that the sense of the House was against his Motion, he would not press it.
 Mr. Lefroy  rose to oppose the Motion. Any one could easily see, that that small beginning was but the first step to the subversion of the Irish University, and, through the subversion of that nursery of the Irish Church, to the total extinction of the Protestant religion in Ireland. That was no slight alteration, as the hon. Gentleman insidiously intimated, but one of great and lasting importance; one that would eventually involve the constitution of the University in destruction. He hoped to convince the Government, since
 767
 Colonel Butler :—Sir, I rise to present a Petition from the parish of the Bower, in the county of Kilkenny, very numerously signed, and as the petitioners complain, as well almost as all the petitioners on the same subject, of the poverty and wretchedness entailed on Ireland by the Act of Union, I shall trespass on the patience of the House, while I read a letter which I received about six or seven weeks ago, from a gentleman, on whose statement the greatest reliance can be placed—a letter that it was my intention to have read on the Repeal Debate, had I not observed that if I had, not one word of it, or anything I could say in reference to it,
 754 Westcourt, Callan, March 5, 1834. Dear Sir—Though our politics are somewhat north and south, yet as the member for the county in which I reside, I think it right to make you acquainted with the condition of the poor of the town and liberties of Callan, in order that you may be enabled in your place in Parliament to state from an authentic source the distress which prevails in this country, and the absolute necessity of some legislative enactment for providing employment for the poor. The cholera has been for some weeks amongst us, and has gained an easy victory over our emaciated population; a few hours has generally been sufficient to bring the matter to a fatal termination. We have raised in the town and immediate neighbourhood a considerable subscription, and its effect was almost immediately perceived in the staying of the plague. Our funds, however, are not only exhausted, but we are left in debt, with famine staring us in the face. The number of victims to this dreadful scourge has exceeded one hundred, and though, by the blessing of God, it has much subsided, yet, being no longer able to distribute provisions, we have too much reason to fear its return. The population of the town and liberties of Callan, by the last census, exceeds 6,000, without any means of employment except the occasional demand for agricultural labour at busy seasons of the year. Of these, many hundreds, being principally the wives and children of those who at various times have left the country in search of work, are by trade beggars, trusting to the charitable disposition of the neighbouring farmers, but who, since the introduction of the disease into the town, will not permit them to come near their doors. I protest, that whatever ills might attend a provision for the poor (and having lived many years in England, I am not ignorant of those ills), I would unhesitatingly prefer being subject to them all, rather than be compelled, as I am daily, to witness misery that it is not in my power to relieve. I have of course contributed my mite, about 30 l 755 756
 Mr. O'Dwyer  would not avail himself of any advantage which his position as a Member of that House would give him to indulge in reference to the management of his Irish estates by the noble Lord (Lord Clifden) alluded to; although he did not mean to say that a landlord, and especially an Irish absentee landlord, was not amenable to public opinion for the
 757 l l l
 Mr. Mullins  deprecated the discussion of so important a subject, and the presentation of such important petitions in so thin a House. He moved that the House be counted.
 Mr. Sinclair  was not surprised, that petitions of that nature were intrusted to the hon. Member, for he believed the hon. Gentleman was the only Member from Scotland who advocated such a proposition.
 Mr. H. B. Curteis  gave his decided opposition to the Bill upon public principle. He knew nothing of the facts of the case, but he opposed the measure generally, because he thought the rights of the poor were not sufficiently protected in any Bills of that nature which were introduced into the House. He was himself the Lord of a Manor, and he very well knew, that a universal desire prevailed with the Lords of Manors to encroach on the rights of the public, and particularly of the defenceless poor, and for this reason their conduct ought to be watched with great jealousy by that House. Another ground of objection to this Bill was, with respect to the great amount of tithe which would be received out of this land. He strongly objected to the pressing forward Bills of this nature at the present time. When it was remembered that a great Parliamentary measure for the commutation of tithe was about to pass, it must be admitted, that the present Bill was premature.
 Mr. Ewing  was aware, from his knowledge of the Dissenters in Glasgow, that many of the names affixed to the petition were of the highest respectability, and that every care must have been taken to avoid improper signatures. But he certainly felt startled when he heard that a petition from that city for a separation of the Church from the State had been presented from 50,000 persons. The whole population at the last census was 202,000 of whom more than one-half were females. Of the males, not many more than 50,000 were above fifteen years of age, and of these about one-half were computed to belong to the Established Church. He had been requested to support the object of the petition, with a view to the next election, but he had refused all pledges, and would continue to pursue the even tenor of his way. If ever there was an establishment of which Dissenters had little reason to complain, which was founded not only on the rock of poverty, but of purity, and which was distinguished for the talents, the piety, and the zeal of its clergy, it was that of the Church of Scotland. He had every reason to love and respect the Dissenters, and would strive to remove all their real grievances.
 Mr. Plumptre  objected to the Motion. The number of beneficed clergymen who wished to give up their profession was so small, that it was not worth while to frame a Bill on their account; and as for the unbeneficed clergymen, he objected to the Bill on their account, for the only effect would be, that if they were once to get a hold of the minister, the latter would be clamoured out of benefices, whether he approved of the parties or no.
 Mr. Walter  moved, that they be read a second time on that day six-months. He did not mean to say, that cases had never occurred wherein inclosures might have been beneficial; but of this he was persuaded, that if the rage for enclosures had been more tempered with discretion, the country would not at that moment have been burthened with such a mass of poor as now existed. With respect to the Bill now before the House, he had paid the greatest attention to it; and it was his duty to state, that the conviction of his mind was, that the measure was pregnant with as much mischief, and promised as little advantage to any person, as any Inclosure Bill that had ever been presented to the House. With the permission of the House, he would read a fair and impartial account of the advantages which the poor derived from their present right of commonage:—
 
 
 £ s d 
 By Fuel 2 12 0 
 By keeping pigs 1 10 0 
 By keeping a cow, with or without a calf 2 15 0 
 By keeping geese, ducks, and fowls 1 0 0 
 By litter, such as fern, for bedding for the cow, pigs, or colt 0 5 0 
 £8 2 0 750 s s d s l
 Mr. Pease  said, that one of his constituents was interested in the measure, and had desired him to oppose the Bill in his behalf. He, however, felt it to be his duty to do so upon principle. He must say, that an act of greater unfairness toward the poor, in his opinion, had never been committed. They were to be deprived of their rights by the Bill, and no manner of compensation was to be afforded to them. He called upon the House, now, to protect the rights of the poor against the oppression of the great landed proprietors of Berks. He protested against the measure generally, and hoped that such at-
 752
 Mr. Bernal  regretted that the hon. Member had not taken up this subject with his usual good sense and discretion. He apprehended that his intention was, to give every clergyman a right to sit in Parliament, who had not a right to sit in convocation; but did the hon. Member think it right, or even decent, that persons in holy orders, perhaps in their reverend habits, should be tempted to expose themselves on a hustings, and to partake of all the contamination of a contested election. Surely, such a situation was unbefitting the sacred character of the gown. The effect of the Bill would be, that young aspiring reverends would struggle for seats in the House of Commons, as the means of obtaining provision in the Church from the minister. Allusion had been made to the case of Horne Tooke, and to his conscientious scruples, but an instance of the kind might not occur again for centuries.
 Mr. Sheil  rose, to move for liberty to bring in a Bill to enable Roman Catholics to hold Professorships and Scholarships in Trinity College, Dublin. The question was not merely Irish, for it was connected with the principles on which the claims of the Dissenters were founded. He had originally given notice, that he
 762 763 l 764 765 766
 Mr. Robert Palmer , in reply, repeated that he only acted ministerially on the present occasion, and regretted it became his duty to divide the House on the question.
 Mr. Robert Palmer  wished to say a few words in defence of the Bill. He had no immediate interest in the Bill; it was placed in his hands in the ordinary course, to conduct through that House, and he knew nothing more on the subject than the simple facts of the case. On a former occasion he stated, that he only acted Ministerially with respect to the Bill, and that he was in no other way interested as to the result. The facts were these:—the Lord of the Manor was the proprietor of by far the greater part of the soil. The number of acres amounted to 4,050; of which the Lord of the Manor and seven other individuals assenting to the measure possessed 3,942. The remaining 108 acres belonged to different persons; among these, the number of those dissenting from the enclosure was nineteen, and the number assenting was twelve, who were owners of the common rights. A petition had been presented by 150 tenants-at-will of the Lord against the Bill; but so far from being injurious to their interests, he was of opinion it would protect them. Evidence had been offered to the Committee to show, that the land was capable of great improvement. He admitted, that only one witness had been called to prove that the land was now in an unproductive state, and that it would be rendered highly productive by being enclosed. He also admitted, that three respectable witnesses had been called on the other side, who declared that considerable injury would be sustained by those tenants whose lands were to be enclosed. He did not think, however, that the number of witnesses on the one side and the other, should have any weight with the House, as it was in the power of either party to have called more. Under these circumstances, he trusted the House would permit the Bill to be read a second time.
 Mr. Throckmorton  having been a member of the Committee, was desirous to observe, that so far as the evidence adduced before the Committee went, there was no argument advanced that could induce him to withhold his support from the Bill.
 Mr. Finn  said, that he must take the House as he found it. It was not his fault if neither his Majesty's Ministers or other Members attended to their duty there.
 Mr. Finn  said, facts were the strongest arguments, and these the right hon. the Secretary for the Treasury furnished him with. A fourth of the entire population of Ireland was unemployed; and a fourth part annually passed through the fever hospitals, and a fourth of the population of the city of Dublin, 60,000 persons, were similarly circumstanced every year. Disease was propagated by famine, and continued by privation.
 Mr. Gillon  asserted, that no imposition whatever had been practised to obtain signatures to the petition referred to. He had stated no more than the truth when he declared, that the Dissenters of Scotland were almost to a man favourable to the separation of Church and State.
 The Speaker  said, he did not consider the hon. member for Paisley guilty of any disorder in the observations he had made.
 Sir Daniel Sandford  in continuation, contended that the petition to which he referred was a rank imposture, and a tissue of downright trickery. He was ready to prove that a great portion of the signatures attached to it were those of mere boys, and that whole columns of names were nothing more than inventions. He denied, that the great majority of the Dissenters of Scotland were in favour of a separation of Church and State, and asserted that there was a proportion of four to one the other way.
 Sir Daniel Sandford  wished to show to the House by a short statement of facts, the weight that was to be attached to petitions presented by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gillon) praying for a separation of Church and State. The other day that hon. Member presented a petition of this description from Glasgow which he said was signed by 49,600 persons. At the time he (Sir D. K. Sandford) doubted the accuracy of the hon. Gentleman's statement, and by an inquiry he had subsequently made on the subject he was now in a situation to show that his conjecture was correct. The whole male population of Glasgow did not exceed 54,000, and from this a deduction of 15,000 was to be made for persons who were unable to write their own names; so that there re-
 758
 Sir S. Whalley  rose to order. The hon. Gentleman (Sir D. K. Sandford) had no right to discuss the subject of a petition presented on a former day.
 Lord Althorp  said, there would be a great difficulty in distinguishing between such clergymen as conscientiously recanted, and such as repented of having taken
 761
 Mr. Hill  said, that the hon. Member for the University of Oxford had stated, that immense mischief and danger would accrue to the Universities if they touched those institutions, and that the admission of Dissenters would raise such religious controversies that the orthodoxy of the Universities would be sapped to their foundations. But Dissenters had been already admitted to Cambridge. The experiment had been tried; and, he asked, had it sapped the orthodoxy of Cambridge? He thought, this was a sufficient answer to the alarm of the hon. Member.
 Colonel Williams  could not understand why other institutions were to be altered and amended, and that the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge were to remain unchanged.
 Mr. John Stanley  supported the claims
 783
 Colonel Evans  thought, that if the hon. Member had not some legislative enactment to propose—if he had only to pronounce a censure upon this Government or some past Government—he would not be justified in persevering in his Amendment.
 Mr. Baring  said, that he thought the hon. member for Worcester was entitled to the thanks of the country for having brought this important subject under the notice of the House. When he found the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs standing so much on a point of order, and so evidently anxious to get rid of the question, he immediately concluded, that
 793 condottieri 794 795 Palmerston: 796
 Colonel Evans  said, that our severe Custom-laws, under which large boats were seized by our cruisers, occasioned our fishermen to use smaller boats than were used by the French fishermen, their Custom-laws being more indulgent. Our fishermen ought to be enabled to have larger boats, that they might meet the French fishermen on an equality. There was another point to which he wished to advert. He recollected the opprobrious epithets which the late Government had bestowed on Don Miguel. Whatever might be said of Don Pedro, it would be admitted, he believed, that the present Regent of Portugal was not to be put on a level with the usurper. He must object, however, to the terms in which the hon. member for Essex, and others, spoke of the British officers in the service of the contending parties in Portugal. Was not Sir J. Campbell, for instance, on exactly the same footing as the officers on the other side? These individuals were but following their profession for want of military employment in the service of their own country.
 Mr. Baring  did not rise to oppose the proposition, which he thought was perfectly fair and equitable; but he wished to ask one or two questions of the noble Lord. In the first place, he desired to know whether it was the intention of the noble Lord in the course of the present year to enter into any negotiation respecting the loan for the advance to the West-India planters? He took it for granted that no such intention existed, inasmuch as such a course would hardly be fair to the new holders of this stock. He also would beg the noble Lord to state what measures his Majesty's Government had taken to stop what were considered unfavourable conversions of Three per Cents into Life Annuities.
 Mr. Baring  said, that the differences between the picked lives and the ordinary lives, gave a result that was astonishing. He did not see why the same experiment, should not be made with lives of sixty-five as had been made with lives of eighty.
 Colonel Evans  complained, that the proposed measure would effect a total alteration in the Constitution. He had not attempted to wade through the whole of the Reports on the subject, but he had read so much of them as referred to the abuses which were stated to exist, and the modes of redress proposed. The first of these evils was the system of out-of-door relief, and it was said to be principally produced by magisterial interference. He had no objection to any measure which might be resorted to for the purpose of counteracting these evils, but in his opinion they were such as might have long since been rectified by the landed proprietors and the magistracy; and by means less objectionable than those now proposed. The next defects of the present system were said to spring from the Laws of Settlement and Bastardy, and the irresponsibility of Select Vestries? He found in the reports no other causes assigned for the extent of the demoralization and misery which existed. He would ask, whether these might not be referred, at least in some degree, to other causes, whether they might not partly arise from the unfair manner in which the poor were
 806 No, no 807
 Mr. Hawes  expressed his assent to the principle of the Bill, and should vote for its going into a Committee. He had heard a great deal about despotic power, but he could not conceive how this Bill could be called a despotic measure. The power which it was proposed to intrust to the Commissioners might be subjected to some appellate jurisdiction. With some restriction of that kind be should vote for the Committee, reserving it to himself to check any great and unnecessary power which might be conferred by the Bill on the Commissioners.
 Mr. C. Buller  said, that, it was his belief, that if the Universities would meet the Dissenters, that the latter might be admitted into the Universities without the slightest injury to the interests of the Universities.
 Mr. Forster , in presenting a petition from members of the Established Church in Walsall, against the Bill for the admission of the Dissenters to the Universities, said, that he could not agree with the hon. member for Oxford.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  expressed his regret, that the Motion had been brought before the House in so inconvenient a manner, that it was impossible to enter upon the subject to which it referred so fully as the importance of that subject would justify. For his part, he should be glad to have the conduct of the Government with regard to our commercial policy brought under discussion, in order that he might have an opportunity of meeting the charges which had been unjustly brought against it. On the present occasion, however, he would confine himself to the subject of our commercial relations with Portugal. The charge of the hon. member for Worcester had been reduced to almost nothing, even upon his own showing, and the Motion could produce no result except, perhaps, the expression of the opinion of the House on one single point—namely, the conduct of the Portuguese Government in issuing the decree which had been referred to without giving the Government of this country previous notice. The hon. Mem-
 797 798 799 800
 Mr. Baines  observed, that it had been said, the Dissenters did not desire professorships and scholarships; now, he begged to say that they did, but they certainly did not wish for any ecclesiastical offices; because they were not congenial with their own principles. They merely wished to obtain those privileges of which they were deprived as Dissenters, and which they could only enjoy as Dissenters. It was said to be a popular doctrine, that Dissenters should be placed in a situation of exclusion; but it was not a popular doctrine; on the contrary, it was very unpopular, and the conduct which the Universities were pursuing towards the Dissenters under their professed and avowed opposition to the separation of Church and State was the very means of hastening the discussion of that question, and the churchmen were defeating themselves. He had thought proper to make
 784
 Mr. Baines , in explanation, said, that he could not keep back a fact that was already before the public, namely, that the Dissenters, at their meeting on the previous day, had passed a Resolution to the effect, that it was expedient a separation should take place between the Church and State.
 Mr. Edward Buller  said, the hon. member for Marylebone had stated many of his own notions without condescending even to touch on the substantial inaccuracies of the Bill, or to notice any of its real merits. The hon. Gentleman seemed to look with more than common fight at the erection of a Central Board, whose powers should pervade and control the mighty parish of Marylebone—hitherto looked upon as an independent state, but now it appeared a tributary one
 828 829 830
 Mr. Grote  addressed the House as follows: I rise, Sir, to express my hope that the House will read this Bill a second time, and suffer it to go into Committee. Approving as I do, of almost all its main ends—approving as I do also, to a great degree, and for the most part, of the new machinery by which those ends are proposed to be accomplished, and, convinced, as I am fully, that some new machinery is absolutely and indispensably requisite, I hope the House will not refuse to examine this Bill in Committee. This is a subject on which I feel a strong and anxious interest, and had I been left to my own unaided judgment and knowledge of the case, I should still have entertained a strong persuasion that some measure of this kind was indispensably requisite. But I feel the more confirmed in my opinion on this occasion, because this measure has been preceded by a careful and copious inquiry, the details of which are before the public. That inquiry I have consulted with great pains and care. The hon. Gentleman who preceded me states, that he does not believe, that any one has read the one-hundredth part of the evidence and reasonings published by the Commissioners. This is at least a proof of their diligence. But I may state, that Ix have perused with deliberate attention, not only the general Report of the Commissioners, but their Appendix A, which contains the Reports of the Assistant-Commissioners; and I must say, that the details of abuse, as they are set forth
 813 l l 814 815 816
 Mr. Robinson  rose to propose an Amendment. He observed, that he saw the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies suggesting to the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He rose for the purpose of moving for certain papers connected with the passing of a decree by the Portuguese Government which materially affected our commercial relations with Portugal. He was sorry to see the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, smiling at the very mention of it. The subject was, perhaps, beneath the consideration of a Minister so deeply engaged in diplomatic relations.
 Mr. Robinson  admitted, that the course he was pursuing was a most inconvenient course, and confessed that there was no excuse for his Motion except the fact that he had sought all manner of opportunities from the Government to bring the question forward at such time, and in such manner as might be agreeable to them; but he could obtain no assurance with respect to any particular period on which he could depend. In adopting an unusual course of proceeding, which he maintained had been imposed upon him by the Government, he felt he had a right to claim the indulgence of the House.
 Mr. Robinson  said, he was perhaps the least connected with party of any man in that House, and therefore he could not call for that adventitious support, the value of which was so well known to hon. Members connected with party in that House. If the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) would name any day in next week, he would be happy to give way on the present occasion. He understood from the noble Lord, that he could not. Well, he must proceed. He had the authority of the Speaker for proceeding. The case he had to urge, was one of pressing importance. By a late decree of the Portuguese Government, we had been placed in a less advantageous position with respect to our commercial relations than we had been in for the last 125 years. He did not quarrel with the Portuguese Government for this measure; they had the full right to pass it, although he thought the course they had pursued was an extraordinary one, and not very conspicuous for its gratitude towards the present Ministers of England. He would state to the House, without hesitation, that his conviction was, that this decree was brought about by the imprudent and injudicious conduct of the Government in 1831. The noble Lord had no excuse for his conduct at that period; he was warned by all connected with the Oporto trade, by him (Mr. Robinson) among others, that it must bring about such a result as that which they now had to deplore. The noble Lord expected three advantages from the equalization of the duties upon wine. First, that the revenue upon wines would be increased. The fact was, the revenue was diminished. Secondly, that the consumption of French wines would be increased. On the contrary, the consumption had rather diminished. Thirdly, it was supposed, that the spirit of commercial liberality, and of reciprocity would have greatly increased, but no such event had yet taken place. M. Thiers had certainly made some remarks upon the subject at Havre, which no doubt found favour in the eyes of the people there. The right hon. the President of the Board of Trade had also, he entertained no doubt, received, upon the occasion of his late visit to Paris, very flattering compliments from the French Government: but, notwithstanding all the laudable and strenuous exer-
 787 788 789
 Mr. George Young  was astounded by the argument which had been used by the noble Lord (Palmerston). The noble Lord appeared to contend that, inasmuch as British commerce maintained a superiority over other nations, it was a matter of perfect indifference to us, whether we lost or preserved the advantages that we possessed. This might be a very convenient argument for the noble Lord, but the people of this country—the merchants, manufacturers, and shopkeepers—he would find, would repudiate it as equally adverse to their interests, and as incorrect logic. The argument of his hon. friend who brought forward this Motion, seemed to have been mistaken by the noble Lord. It was not—if he (Mr. Young) understood it right—that there had been an infraction of any treaty, but that the Government of this country had pursued an impolitic course in reducing the duties on French wines, which had induced Portugal to enforce the restrictions of which we complained. The obligations of the treaty that had been entered into between this country and Portugal ceased to be binding after 1825, when it became open to either party to take the course that each might consider most beneficial. Acting on this principle, England, in 1830, withdrew from Portugal the advantages the Treaty had secured to her; and Portugal had, as regarded us, followed our example. He recollected that his hon. friend, the member for Essex (Mr. Baring) stated, almost prophetically, on the debates which took place at the time of the proposed alteration in the wine-duties, that he did not expect the proposed change would provoke a retaliation on the part of Portugal at that time, but he had apprehensions as to the consequences, in case the liberal party ever obtained the ascendancy in Portugal. The noble Lord replied, that he admitted it was possible Portugal might impose the restrictions anticipated, but he did not
 801
 Mr. Benett  said, that too much blame had been thrown on the Magistrates, who had acted solely under the law. They had distributed their own money and the money of their tenants. They had been accused by the public Press, first of having been too sparing of their own money, and then of having been too lavish of it. This was a very difficult subject. A Bill had been brought in by Mr. Sturges Bourne, founded on the evidence and Report in the year 1817. No man understood the Poor-laws better than that Gentleman, and yet his Bill was not successful. Then the matter was afterwards taken up by Sir James Scarlett, who gave up his Bill. He was followed by Mr. Nolan and Mr. Slaney, both of whom in succession gave up their own measures. He was not standing up to oppose the second reading of the Bill, though he was confident that it must be altered so as to make it agreeable to the country. He agreed with many Gentlemen who said that something must be done; but if something must be done, it must be done well. The workhouse system, which only perpetuated poverty, must be abolished. The system might be put down without this machinery of the workhouse. The great evil in the west of England was, that able young men, who did no work, received wages. He should certainly support the second reading of the Bill.
 Mr. Richards  said, it had been the constant cry that Ministers ought to take the revision of the Poor-laws into their own hands, with a view to correct those manifold and glaring abuses, the existence of which no one attempted to deny. They had done so. He (Mr. Richards) had carefully read the Bill brought by them into the House, and, in spite of the taunts thrown out by the hon. member for Marylebone against it, and against the Poor-law Commissioners, on whose recommendation it was founded, he must beg leave to assert his opinion, that the Bill had many excellent features; and he was bound in common justice to say, that both the Bill and the Report did high honour to the talents and the integrity of the Commissioners appointed by Government. He thought his Majesty's Ministers entitled to praise for their judicious selection of Commissioners; he thought the Commissioners entitled to praise for the fearless and the able discharge of an onerous, and, in many respects, a painful duty. The hon. Baronet who last addressed the House, animadverted, in a slight degree, on what had fallen from preceding speakers; but he (Mr. Richards) must say, with the greatest respect for that hon. Baronet, that he could not have read the report of the Commissioners; or, if he had read it, that he had not brought to its consideration, that keen and shrewd talent which generally characterised his observations in that House. The principal provision of the Bill was that which went to deny relief to the able-bodied pauper, except in exchange for labour; and if this provision held out any hope—which certainly it did—of safely mitigating the immense abuses of this part of the system—of doing away with a notorious, a crying, and worse than all, an increasing evil—he did not, see any reason which could fairly impede any hon. Gentleman from giving the measure his best consideration, or justify him in say-
 825 826 827
 Mr. Walter  said, that it was impossible to conceal the fearful importance of the present measure, any more than its anomalous and unprecedented character. It was an attempt, not to alter or improve, but to abolish at one stroke the whole body of our Poor-laws, and to substitute another body of laws, totally different in principle and practice, in their place. The general usage in this country had been to correct abuses, to remove pressures, to strengthen infirm parts, and so by a system or succession of expedients our laws had grown up to their present form and consistency. He confessed that he dreaded, and his constituents were also beginning to dread, this new-made constitution, for such it must be considered, for the poor, and for every parish in the kingdom. He said, that people attained rights by long and unbroken enjoyment; and the poor of this country had rights, many of which they had lost, as the right of commonage, by the indiscriminate rage for enclosures. The right of maintenance and employment still remained to them under the old constitution by which they had been governed; and if injured, if their rights were violated, they were within reach of those to whom, by their voices, they could complain of that violation. But by this new constitution, their rights were to be removed from their old basis, and placed on a totally different foundation; and that foundation would not be within their reach, but placed in London, in a central board or commission. A certain Abbé at the beginning of the French Revolution was said to have had constitutions of every kind, which he could take out of the pigeon-holes of his bureau. This certainly was not one of his constitutions, for there had never been any legal provision for the poor in France; but, it resembled them; for it had no connexion with any thing that ever existed before in the habits of the people lo whom it was meant to be applied, no analogy with any of their pre-
 831
 Mr. Warre  wished the right hon. Gentleman, the Vice-President of the Board of Trade, had been more explicit as regarded the fisheries. He had said, it was a question of international law. He was aware of the circumstances of the case, and he would observe, that he could not see any good reason why, or on what grounds of justice between two nations at peace, the French boats should be allowed to come to our shores and cast their nets where they pleased, and our fishermen should be interfered with if they cast their nets off the French shores. Much conflicting testimony was delivered before the Committee last year, and, taking the whole of the evidence, it certainly was not easy to make out the case between the two parties. Amongst the other difficulties, there was the difficulty of determining from what points the distance should be measured—whether from beach to beach, or from headland to headland. The case was well worth consideration; and if a case of aggression were made out, the proper representations ought to be forwarded.
 Mr. Brotherton  said, that the Bill, before it received the final sanction of the House, must receive many Amendments and modifications. His constituents were in favour of the principle of the Bill. It appeared to him that, considering the fluctuations in the trade of the country, it would be impolitic to exclude able-bodied labourers from relief. This Bill would Reform the system of management introduced into parishes. He should support the second reading of the Bill, at the same time he must say, that he thought the power of the Commissioners by far too great.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the hon. Member who had just addressed the House, seemed extremely anxious that we should not enter upon any course which would entail an extravagant amount of expense upon the country. In that particular, he entirely agreed with the hon. Member; and it was because he thought the present Bill calculated to save millions of expenditure, that he approved of its provisions. If the
 832 833 834 835 Samuel Whalley: 836 837
 Mr. Ingham  participated in the alarm of his hon. friend, and did anticipate great danger from the passing of the Bill then before the House. As long as the Established Church was to be maintained, the exclusive character of the Universities Of Oxford and Cambridge, as far as related to ecclesiastical degrees, ought also to be upheld.
 Mr. Slaney  expressed the pleasure he felt at the calmness of tone and temper with which the hon. Member who had just sat down had delivered his opinions upon this great and important question; and he felt, that both these qualities were the more agreeable, when contrasted with the style and manner of the former speaker. It was not for him (Mr. Slaney) to presume to dictate to the House; but he thought, if ever there was a subject of great and vital importance brought under their consideration, if ever there was a question upon the consideration of which it was right that they should lay aside all violent passions and strong feelings it was the present. It was, he repeated, a most important question, as far as regarded the interests of the great body of the labouring population, and he might say, of the community at large. Their great object ought to be to elevate the character, to improve the condition, and restore the independence, of the most numerous, and he might justly add, the most valuable portion of society. If he were allowed to address the House for a short time, he would state a few facts, which would prove that this was as important a question as had been undertaken by any Government. Let the House consider for a moment the immense burthens which the present system of Poor-laws entailed upon the country. They had heard much about agricultural distress; but he would say that, of all the evils which pressed upon those who resided in the country, none could equal the evil of the Poor-laws. He called upon the House, then, not to cast back, without calm and deliberate inquiry, the measure brought for-
 817 l l l l l l l s d s s s s 818 819 l s s s s 820 821
 Dr. Lushington  said, that, under the Treaty of 1815, the French government set up a claim to the exclusive right of fishing on their coast. In 1817, the Government conceded to them the exclusive right to fish within one league. In consequence of representations made in 1821 to the then Government, the distance was extended, in 1822, to six miles from the coast. The result was, that our fishermen, who had been accustomed to fish nearer the coast where oysters were in great abundance, thought they were treated unjustly in being deprived of the right they had enjoyed, and they did not observe the line, but, when they thought they were not watched, passed beyond it. The French Government, jealous of the encroachment, and desirous of enforcing
 802
 Mr. Estcourt  presented a Petition which had been intrusted to him by his constituents—the Chancellor, the Master, the Fellows, the Professors, and the Students of the University of Oxford—against the Bill pending for second reading on Wednesday next to admit Dissenters to take up degrees in the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge. He considered it a duty on his part, not only as regarded the high respectability of the petitioners, but with reference to the great magnitude and importance of the subject itself, to read to the House the language in which the petition was couched; but before he did so he must express the regret which he felt, that the severe indisposition of his hon. colleague (Sir Robert Inglis) had deprived him of the benefit of his hon. friend's assistance on an occasion like the present, when it was so much needed.—The hon. Gentleman proceeded to read the petition, which commenced by stating the great alarm which the petitioners felt on learning that their rights were to be infringed by
 780 781 782
 Mr. Estcourt  expressed his admiration of what had fallen from the hon. Member who had spoken last. If the first degree were granted to the Dissenters, it would be injustice to deny them to all the others; they would be hypocrites if they did not seek for them also. The concession of privileges to them would be an infringement upon the laws and rights of the University.
 The Speaker  said, that according to the forms of the House and the law of Parliament, there was no necessity that the Amendment should be akin to the question. However, it would be much better if the House should always know upon what subject it was likely to be engaged, and, accordingly, he thought it would be incumbent upon the hon. Member to show, either that the Amendment related to a matter of pressing importance,
 786
 Sir Francis Burdett  observed, that without reading all the details of the Report, but simply from his own knowledge of the facts, every man who had any experience on the subject, must, in his opinion, soon come to a just conclusion upon it. In fact, the House had nothing to do at present with details; the question before them was the principle of the Bill. Now, he roust say, that he felt great repugnance to so extensive a change in a system which had existed so long; a change which would go to the hearts and feelings of so large a portion of the people; which would annihilate those laws which had so long been enforced; and which would take from them all hope whatever of relief from their embarrassments, however temporary. If that were not so, he should be very happy, and be almost disposed to vote for the second reading of the Bill. But then there was another objection to the measure, which struck him as most extraordinary. All the good which it proposed to do by its cumbrous machinery appeared to him to be perfectly attainable by a proper administration of the existing Poor-laws. Some of the statements which had been made that evening by an hon. Member, were irrefragable arguments against so large a change as that which was projected; for
 823 824
 Sir James Scarlett  did not wish to detain the House, but he must beg leave to say, that he congratulated the country upon the Government having taken this momentous question into their hands; and though there were some particulars in which he thought the provisions of the Bill faulty, in respect to the authorities to be vested in the Commissioners, and the proposed alterations in the Law of Settlement, and the workhouse system, yet he would vote for the second reading. With respect to the Commissioners, he was decidedly opposed to the union of legislative and executive power which it was proposed to repose in them. This was a delegation of authority, a sort of  imperium in imperio
 Sir Richard Vyvyan  contended, that until it could be proved, that the Universities were not Corporations, they should not be deprived of their rights; and, for his part, he should defend their privileges until they themselves called for alteration. They ought to take a serious lesson from the Motion which was brought forward by the hon. and learned member for Tipperary last night. The object of that Motion was to enable Dissenters and Roman Catholics to participate in the whole of the advantages to be obtained in the University of Dublin; but although the advocates of the claims of the Dissenters disavowed all desire on their part to appropriate to themselves fellowships, professorships, and scholarships, was it not clear to the commonest understanding, that if one concession were granted to them, they would use the power placed in their hands to obtain others? All he could say was, that if this Bill were passed, he should be prepared, and at no distant period, to see the Dissenters as clamorous for a full participation in every endowment of the Universities as they were now for admission into them.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  felt considerable pain in addressing the House, because he knew, that this was a dry question to enter upon, and therefore he would occupy as short a time as possible in offering a few remarks. He felt sincerely the evil which was likely to be inflicted upon the country by this Bill; for, looking to the machinery of the measure, he thought that, instead of correcting the evils of which the community complained, it would increase them. It would be prejudicial to property, and demoralizing to the labouring classes. With respect to the principle on which the Poor-laws were founded, he
 808 Laughter 809 l 810 l Sic volo, sic jubeo, stet pro ratione voluntas s l l 811 812
 Mr. Clay  could by no means participate in the fears entertained by the hon. member for Marylebone, that the powers which were to be intrusted to the Commissioners under the Bill were likely to produce any serious inroad on the rights and liberties of the country; for, to whom were those powers to be intrusted? Not to any body of persons powerful in themselves. If, indeed, those powers were vested in the Crown, in the House of Peers, in his Majesty's Ministers, or in any powerful Corporation such as that of the Bank of England, there might be some apprehension; but they were to be intrusted to persons who were merely public servants, possessed of no external authority, allied to no party, and against whom every man's hand might and would be raised in the event of their misconduct. So far from creating improper powers, the Bill went to limit the frightful powers which the magistrate on the one hand, and the overseers on the other, exercised over the labouring population, and by which they degraded that population to a state of absolute slavery. He allowed, that the powers to be intrusted by the Bill ought to be subject to proper limitations, and that there were some parts of the Bill which might be advantageously modified; but all that would be matter for consideration in the Committee. At present, such was the state of things, that no man's property, whether in town or in country, could be said to be his own. One step after another, the labouring population had been sunk into such an abject condition, that when they roused themselves from their state of slavery, it was only to plunge into crime. The hon. member for Marylebone had said, he should divide the House to see who were
 822
 Lord Althorp  said, he should have no objection to discuss the topics included in the Resolution of the hon. and gallant Colonel the member for Westminster, when the proper time for such discussions came; but there was one point in the Motion upon which he would content himself with a single observation. The Resolution spoke of the increased influence which would be added to the Crown and Administration for the time being. He (Lord Althorp) would only ask whether it was possible that his Majesty's Ministers would propose the measure now before the House with a view to any patronage which it might be the means of conferring on them? If there were any who thought so, he could only say, that they had a very strange notion indeed of the policy or sense of the Ministry.
 Lord Althorp  had great satisfaction in stating, that he did not see any occasion to detain the House very long. The objections which had been raised against the provisions of the present Bill in the course of the evening's debate were so few and so inconsiderable that he need trouble the House with but very few observations. It was extremely satisfactory to him to find that such a general concurrence of sentiment existed in favour of the principles of the Bill before the House. Although some very few Gentlemen had announced their intention of voting against the second reading, there was no class of Representatives or of peculiar opinions united against it. The hon. member for Westminster (Sir Francis Burdett) had expressed an opinion that the provisions of this Bill were too large; but if he had considered how large was the evil that was to be remedied, he would not have expressed that opinion. If it was attempted by small measures to Reform the present evil system of the Poor-laws, it would be but a continuance of the mistaken principle which had hitherto been acted upon in legislating on this subject. It was well known that Bill after Bill had been carried through the Legislature upon this subject, which, so far from having any beneficial effect, had, in too many cases, made matters worse than before. Another hon. Member had said, that if parishes were left to themselves they would adopt such measures as might promise to be of a beneficial practical effect, and had instanced cases in which a wholesome system of Poor-laws had been introduced by the assiduity and good sense of the local authorities. He admitted these facts, but in doing so he thought they were but an additional proof in favour of the necessity for some general measure of
 839 840 841 842
 Lord Althorp  must, at once, protest against the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman. He thought, the course the hon. Member was pursuing was most inconvenient. The Amendment which the hon. Member proposed to bring forward had no relation whatever to the four per cents.
 Lord Althorp  said, he should not have to address the House at any great length in proposing the Resolutions which it was his duty to bring before them. The amount of the Four per Cent Annuities did not
 803 l l l l l l 804
 Lord Althorp  moved the Order of the Day for the second reading of the Poor-laws Amendment Bill.
 Lord Althorp  was understood to say, that it was not the intention of Government to propose a negotiation for a loan for the West-India planters. It would certainly be necessary to make an arrangement with the Bank to pay 3,500,000 l 805
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that he thought the House would agree with him that the course adopted by the hon. member for Worcester was a highly inconvenient one, and the reason the hon. Member had given for pursuing it was most unsatisfactory. The hon. Member said, that he had interposed this Motion between the House and the usual course of its business to-night, because his noble friend did not consent to fix any day next week at which he might have a more convenient opportunity of calling the attention of the House to this subject. That argument might just as well be used by any other Member of the House who wished to bring forward a Motion, and he had no doubt, that there were many present most anxious to bring particular subjects under the consideration of the House, but who were prevented from doing so in consequence of the great number of Motions already standing upon the books. If each of them were to adopt the course which the hon. member for Worcester had pursued this evening, (and they would have just as much reason for doing so), it would become impossible that the regular business of the House should proceed. He should be justified, therefore, if, instead of answering the speech which
 790 791 Robinson 792
 Mr. Abecromby  was of opinion that nothing could be more injurious to the Church Establishment than compulsory payments to the clergy. The clergyman in the present instance had formerly received a large stipend from the voluntary contributions of the parishioners, so long as he resided in the parish. They had thought proper to discontinue that voluntary support on the ground of non-residence, and the House was now called upon to say whether it was willing to convert that voluntary payment into one that would be compulsory on the parishioners. In justice to the parish and the Church,
 862
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  wished to state the grounds on which he should support the second reading of the Bill. Having himself succeeded in obtaining the insertion of a clause in the Churches' Building Act of 1831, to prevent the holding of any new district church or chapel with any benefice having cure of souls, he could not be justly charged with being a friend
 865 l l l 866
 Mr. Pryme  condemned the proposition before the House as one of the most shameless attempts to violate private property by taxation he ever remembered.
 Mr. Hill  was willing to bear testimony to the character of the rev. Gentleman who was concerned in this Bill. But that was not the question. The real question was, whether the House would give the Rector power to compel the parishioners to make up the deficiency of his income,
 864
 Mr. Francis Baring  said, the question for the consideration of the Committee was, whether this Bill was a breach of contract with the parties opposing it?—and if the Committee would attend to him for only a few moments, he would undertake to show that it was not. Much stress was laid upon the words "not exceeding," but it was clear that those words were never meant to convey an impression that superannuations, up to that amount, were to be paid. The Act of 1810 was introduced to limit the discretion of Ministers, but it by no means bore the construction given to it by the hon. member for Weymouth. If they looked to the history of enactments generally, they would find, that no doubt could be entertained on the subject. Before 1810 the Treasury had in itself the full power and discretion of granting superannuated allowances, and it was to limit and confine that power, that the Act of 1810 was passed. The Act said, you shall not, in certain cases, go beyond such and such a sum, but it never said, or meant to say, "You must give that sum." On the contrary, the discretion of Government was left to go as much under it as all circumstances would justify. Before that Bill there had been a looseness in all Treasuries in granting pensions, and no sufficient
 875
 Mr. Lloyd  said, that if he saw any general desire to carry economy into other departments of the Government, he should be more inclined to give Ministers credit for it in the present instance. But he regretted, that he did not perceive any such anxiety on their parts, He was sure that great injustice had been done to these parties. Their own fund had been seized upon—[" No no
 Mr. Lloyd  proceeded: Every person on entering office as a clerk or public officer contributed.
 Mr. Lloyd  asked whether this was the case in the Customs?
 Mr. Lloyd  said, he had understood differently. At all events, the universal understanding was, that proper superannuated allowances were to be given to these parties. He had himself had to lay before the Treasury a case of severe and unmerited hardship. It was that of a gentleman who had held an office of 600 l l fortiori
 Mr. Vernon Smith  defended the measure, and contended, that no injustice could be sustained by any party from its operation. However highly he valued the service of these clerks, and he would say that their services had been most valuable, still he thought that they were not inadequately paid. They were much better paid than clerks in mercantile establishments.
 The Solicitor-General  rose, to move the second reading of the Central Criminal Courts' Bill. He did not anticipate there would be any objection to allowing the Bill to be read a second time; and he should content himself by simply stating, that one great object of the Bill was, to increase the number of Sessions held in the year. Formerly, they used to be eight, but henceforward it was proposed there should be twelve; and by this regulation, punishment would almost immedi-
 879
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  rose to inquire of the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Solicitor-General), why the Chief Judge and the two other Judges in Bankruptcy were among the Judges of the proposed Court appointed by the Bill? Considerable surprise had been expressed in the City of London on the appearance of those learned persons in the Bill, who seemed to have no natural connexion with a Criminal Court. He would take this opportunity of giving notice of his intention, in the Committee on the Bill, to move, that the parishes of Bromley and Beckenham, in the county of Kent, be comprised within the limits of the proposed Court; and the insertion of words in clause 17th, saving the rights and privileges of the Sheriffs of the City of London, and Sheriff of the county of Middlesex: also a clause to provide, that all and singular the enactments, persons, and authorities, made and given in and by the Act of George 4th, cap. 48, "for enabling Courts to abstain from pronouncing sentence of death on certain capital felonies," shall be deemed to extend, and shall extend, to the proposed Court.
 The Solicitor General  said, that the reason why the three Judges in Bankruptcy were named in the Bill was, that in the absence of the Judges on circuit their assistance might be necessary to enable the Court to sit.
 The Solicitor General objected to the principle of the measure, and said, he should oppose its further progress. Much business was done by Grand Juries in England, but it was never impeded by the form of their oath. This measure would introduce another discrepancy into the laws of the two countries, while the object generally contemplated was to assimilate them. 
 Colonel Davies  totally differed from the course taken, both by the hon. member for Weymouth (Mr. Buxton), and the hon. member for Truro (Mr. Tooke), as to the construction put upon the Act of Parliament in question. In order to show the principle on which the Act of 1810 was founded, he would refer them to the Act of 1808, which was introduced for
 874 l l
 Colonel Davies  said, he approved of the general principles of the Bill, but he dissented from some of the clauses. The clause then under consideration entitled certain high officers of State, after two years' service, to a retiring pension of 2,000 l l l l l
 Colonel Davies  opposed the Bill, which, he said, if it were allowed to pass, would constitute a precedent to encourage any Rector, who was not content with his income, to apply to that House for power to compel his parishioners to pay him more, whether they were pleased with him or not.
 Lord Darlington  considered pluralities the greatest abuse existing in the Church. He did not think the property of the Church too great if it were properly distributed, and one means of effecting a more proportionate distribution would be, to prevent any gentleman who already held a living or a stall of the value of 500 l
 Lord Dudley Stuart  could not permit this Clause to pass without a few observations. He gave credit to his right hon. friend (Sir James Graham) for his services in the cause of his country; but he objected to the Clause, as it would have an  ex-post-facto 877
 Major Beauclerk  thought, that the clerks were rather hardly dealt with. He saw opposite more than one right hon. Member who might retire upon a pension of 2,000 l l
 Major Beauclerk  seconded the Amendment, and complained of this House being called on to make a rate upon the parishioners of Christchurch for the payment of the Rector, who did no duty in the parish, and who held other livings. He had heard that the rev. Gentleman was a most amiable and good man, but his objection to the rate-payers being obliged to contribute 400 l
 Colonel Perceval  said, that, the observations of the hon. Member who had just sat down, as well as the tone and manner in which they were uttered, could not be permitted to pass unnoticed. He presumed that these observations came from a gentleman who had been used to sit on Grand Juries. If so, he could only say, that the hon. Member must have belonged to Grand Juries of a description such as he never had the
 884
 Mr. Hawes  hoped the House would not pass the Bill. The case, he said, was exactly thus:—The parishioners, in an open vestry, where no excitement whatever prevailed, granted the Rector a certain sum per annum, a voluntary rate, to mark their esteem for his character, and their
 863
 Mr. Shaw  thought it would be a very ungracious course to pursue, if the Government should throw out the Bill in its present stage. If it were read a second time, the House would have another opportunity of taking the discussion, which it was then too late an hour to enter upon, and of distinctly understanding the nature of its provisions. As at present advised, he was inclined to think that an oath would be administered under circumstances of greater sanctity and solemnity, under the provisions of the Bill, than by the present practice; but still he should be unwilling to make any hasty change in a matter of this important nature against the opinions of those authorities to which the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary for Ireland, had alluded. He hoped, however, that he would consent to let the question stand over.
 Mr. Finch  believed the Bill was not properly understood by the House. All the Rector received, after the payment of his Curate, was about 112 l
 Mr. Aglionby  would not go into any calculations of what this Gentleman received from his two livings, and what he paid to his two curates; he objected to the Bill as bad in principle. He had received a letter stating, that this clergyman applied for the Bill for the sake of his family, and to support the Established Church. He should be sorry that his vote should deprive the applicant's family of any advantages they might derive from this Bill; but there were other parties who were entitled to the protection of that House who had also families to support—he meant the rate-payers, from whom it was proposed to take their property.
 Mr. Aglionby  thought, that the hon. member for Weymouth had used two words of very different signification. He stated, that the parties in question depended on the "justice" and the "liberality" of the House. If they depended upon its justice the last speaker had put the question on its right footing; if they depended upon its liberality, then those who were continually calling for economy ought not to stand in its way when it was proposed unless a clear case of injustice were made out.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the true cause of the refusal to pay the rector the salary of 400 guineas a-year, was the discovery of its illegality; or, at least, that it was not competent to pay such a sum out of the parish rate. The present Bill was to provide a remedy for this. The gentleman had been unfairly dealt with, because, if an Act of Parliament had not unjustly passed, depriving him of the benefit of the provisions of Marshall's will, he would have the remuneration which his services deserved. If the sum legally devoted to the payment of the rector were to be continued, it would not be sufficient to support a gentleman. He, therefore, hoped the House would prevent non-residence by providing adequately for the rector.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  would be glad to learn what would be the amount of the saving made to the public by the operation of this clause. If it were one which pressed but lightly on the clerks, it could not effect any important saving to the public; but if the saving were of large amount, it might press with severity on the clerks. He thought it would be dealing more fairly with them to alter the Clause, so that it should not have any retrospective effect. He would press this the more urgently on the right hon. Baronet and on the Committee as it was well known that, owing to the great reduction in the number of clerks in most of the public offices, the chances of promotion were greatly diminished. In the office which he had held, there were, during the war, near 170 clerks. They had since been reduced to sixty; and, in the Ordnance department, the reductions had been in the same proportion.
 Mr. Hume  begged to state the ground upon which he objected to this Bill being supported by the House. Two years ago, the Archbishop of Canterbury introduced a Bill into the other House, which sanctioned pluralities. When the Bill came before this House, he (Mr. Hume) moved an Address to the King, praying the numbers and amount of pluralities should be laid before the House. The Returns had
 861
 Mr. Godson  was opposed to the introduction of a principle into Ireland, for which there was no precedent in England.
 Mr. Godson  had great pleasure in seconding the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman; and he should take the opportunity of observing, that he would move in Committee, that stealing from the person, embezzlement, and a second conviction, be added to the offences contemplated by the Bill.
 Mr. Estcourt  could not understand why it was, that all this opposition on the part of the parish of Christchurch should exist to this just and proper claim of their Rector. One of the complaints of the parishioners was, that 150 l l
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  thought, that this Bill would entail a great hardship upon many old servants of the public. The only argument, or the only shadow of an argument, which had been referred to by the right hon. Baronet, was that in which he referred to the Act of 1810, when it was stated, a maximum was fixed in respect to the superannuations. He had no doubt, that the Act originally intended that persons should have the full benefit of the maximum stated, except in the cases of those who might have been disqualified. The gentlemen who were clerks in public offices had to complain of the constant changes which had been made in their prospects. Prior to 1810 it appeared that no system at all had prevailed. If, however, any had existed, it was, that they who had friends and patronage, got superannuations, and that they
 872 l l l l
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that concurring as he did, in all that had fallen from his right hon. friend, respecting the merits and services of these persons, he should be sorry to utter a single expression calculated to militate against their interests, or give a moment's pain to their feelings; but the plain question for the consideration of the House was this, "Is this Bill calculated to injure their just interests?" Before the introduction of this measure, the universal cry on the other side of the House was, the continuance of the dead weight of pensions; but no sooner was the Bill laid before the House than a storm of indignation was raised against it—[" No, no 873
 Mr. William Evans  opposed the Bill, but said he was certain the Church property was not more than sufficient for the purposes for which it was intended, if properly distributed; and, if a proper distribution did not soon take place, the destruction of the Established Church would be inevitable.
 Mr. O'Reilly  said, he entertained a very strong objection to the present system, because it gave Grand Juries in Ireland an opportunity of finding just what bills they pleased. That it had that tendency he must repeat; and if it were not then so late, he would undertake to prove the assertion.
 Mr. Tooke  said, he wished to add to the clause:—"That this measure should have reference to officers and clerks who had entered the public service subsequent to the 4th of August, 1829." He wished this distinction to be drawn, as those persons who had entered this service before that period, were very differently placed from the others; as would be seen by a petition which he had that day presented to the House at its early sitting. From this, it was clear, that those clerks had entered into the public service with the understanding, or, at least, under the impression, that they should receive the then usual retired allowance, but now they found themselves mistaken. He had before said, that Government was bound to deal openly, candidly, and fairly, with those individuals, and not to introduce a retrospective measure affecting their interests. Such a proceeding was manifestly unjust. The parties affected by the proposed regulation, threw themselves upon the protection of the House from, and showed they had reason to complain of, a measure which had never been contemplated when they entered the service.
 Colonel Verner  said, in moving for the second reading of this Bill, he begged to assure the House, that he was actuated by no feeling, but a desire to discharge what he held to be a public duty. He should, therefore, as briefly as possible, state to the House the objections attending the present system of swearing witnesses in Court, and the advantages which would, in his humble judgment, be derived from the change which he proposed to make.
 880 vivâ voce 881 882 883
 Mr. Hall  opposed it, on the grounds that the Rector had not complied with the condition under which he had stipulated to fulfil the duties of the incumbency. The hon. Member concluded by moving as an Amendment, that the Bill be read a second time this day six months.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  wished to state what were the circumstances under which this Bill was proposed and objected to. The Rector had formerly received gratuities from the parishioners which were deemed by them necessary to enable him to provide for the discharge of the duties of the parish. The grounds upon which these gratuities had been withheld were, that the rev. gentleman had become a non-resident and a sinecurist. The facts of the first charge were, that the Rector lived six doors out of the boundary of the parish, and only four hundred yards from the parish church, and this was what was called non-residence. He was really surprised that any Gentleman in that House, knowing the facts, could allege non-residence against this clergyman as a ground of refusing the Bill. He was as much opposed as any man to non-residence and pluralities under the ordinary meaning of those terms; but he called upon the House to judge of the opposition to the Bill from this specimen, and he trusted that it would be passed. With regard to the charge of the Rector being a pluralist, he had accepted the living of Mitcham on the express condition that he should hold it only until another gentleman should be old enough to take it, and he resided there only during the three months of the year which the law allowed him to be absent from Christchurch, and when not there himself he provided for the performance of the duty. The friends of the Bill did not wish to interfere with any of the details of the arrangement between the rev. gentleman and his parishioners, but only to provide that a certain sum, which was no more than necessary for his maintenance in his proper station, should be supplied.
 Sir James Graham , in opposing the Amendment of the hon. Member, thought it necessary to state the circumstances under which the present measure had originated. The measure on which the Bill under consideration was founded, grew out of the report of a Committee, of which Mr. Banks was chairman. The report of the Committee recommended the abolition of all those sinecures, or the immediate modification of them by which the service of the Minister had formerly been rewarded. In consideration of that sacrifice on the part of the Crown, by which it was deprived of the means of rewarding persons who might have rendered an efficient service, the report recommended that superannuations should, under certain circumstances, be granted. A number of offices were abolished, such as the Auditor of the Exchequer, Clerk of the Pells, &c, the emoluments of which amounted to 100,000 l l l l l l l 869
 Sir James Graham  stated, that it was to this clause that great objection had been made by the gentlemen employed in the public offices; and he certainly should not have brought it forward, unless he had thought it was consistent with public faith and honour, and with principles of just economy. He was disposed to be provident for the future, and to deal tenderly with the parties who were at present interested. This was a feeling which had been embraced in a subsequent measure of the late Chancellor of the Exchequer. A report then made enforced that principle which he held to be good—namely, to effect the greatest possible saving in the public service with the least possible injury to individuals. Acting on this principle, he had been most studious that there should be nothing in this Bill which should have a retrospective view; that those Gentlemen who had entered the service before the year 1829 should be dealt with according to the circumstances
 870 871
 Sir James Graham  contended, that there was no such thing as an absolute right to promotion. He agreed with the right hon. Baronet opposite that the result of the late reductions had practically proved a great stop to promotions; and he likewise concurred in the meed of approbation which he had bestowed upon the excellent spirit and conduct which were displayed by the clerks in the public offices. If anything were to damp their zeal, the injury which would be inflicted thereby on the public service would not be compensated by the gain derived from any pecuniary reduction in their salaries and emoluments. In accordance with the suggestions made by the right hon. Baronet, he should propose an Amendment to this Clause exempting from its operation all persons appointed since the order of the 8th of February, 1822.
 Sir James Graham  said, that the Amendment would exclude persons who entered office before 1829, as well as since. In fact, the Amendment would go farther than the noble Lord really intended. He could assure the House that great pains were taken by him before he brought forward the system of reduction, and he could also say, that the services of valuable servants had been especially attended to. He would not touch upon either express or implied contracts, indeed, on the contrary, he would religiously observe them. He did not believe, that one of either class was infringed on by the Bill.
 Sir James Graham  said, that the parties who objected to this Bill had not contributed one farthing to the fund.
 Sir Robert Peel  was much gratified by this declaration, as it evinced a desire on the part of the right hon. Baronet to meet the fair claims of those who were engaged in the public service.
 Sir Robert Peel  took the same view of the case as his right hon. and gallant friend near him. It was quite clear that those clerks who had been appointed since 1829 must submit to any minute regulating their salaries which might be made by the Treasury or Admiralty; but the same rule did not, in his opinion, apply to those who had been appointed before that. Suppose a young man of good character, education, and abilities, had been appointed before 1829, at a salary of 95 l l 878 l l
 Lord Althorp  answered "Yes."
 Lord Althorp  said, that the whole of the money had been repaid.
 Mr. Baring  presented a petition from 500 of his consti-
 894
 Mr. Lennard  presented a petition to the same effect from 300 electors of South Essex. He said, no means had been resorted to for the purpose of getting it up, and it was most respectably signed. The petitioners thought such an irresponsible and extensive power prejudicial to the public, and ought not to be intrusted to any body of men, still less to one over whom the public had no control. He considered it quite anomalous, too, that the hon. member for Colchester should be debarred from practising as a barrister, and yet be allowed to practise as a solicitor. They considered such a power as that claimed by the Benchers wholly unnecessary, as barristers were constantly before the public, who were the best judges of their conduct, and who would not employ them if they were not deserving of encouragement. They complained also, that justice had not been done to Mr. Harvey—that witnesses had not been compelled to attend—that they were not sworn, and that the judges should have no power to examine into the allegations against an applicant for admission, but rest satisfied with the certificate of the benchers. He entirely concurred in the sentiments contained in the petition, and trusted the question, as far as it related to the hon. member for Colchester, would have a fair and full investigation.
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to move for the appointment of a Select Committee, to inquire into the practice observed by the four Inns of Court in London, and also by the King's Inns, Dublin, upon the application of persons to be admitted students, and to be called to the bar; and also to inquire into the revenues of each Inn, and the application thereof. What had fallen from hon. Members on presenting these petitions would enable him to spare the time of the House, and so would, even to a greater degree, the sixth report of the Common Law Commissioners, which had just been laid before
 895 per se 896 897 898 899 900 901 l l l 902
 Mr. Hill  supported the Motion. The principle in operation was bad, and, therefore, ought to be done away with. He denied, that Mr. Wooler had been convicted of a libel. His hon. and learned friend (Sir James Scarlett) was mistaken. The finding was such, that there could be no judgment upon it; and, in fact, there never was any. Mr. Wooler was convicted of sedition, in the case with Sir Charles Wolseley; but the case of Mr. Wooler proved, most undeniably, that the Benchers of the Inns might be influenced by political considerations in their decisions upon applications to be called to the Bar. The sole offence of which that gentleman could be accused, was the authorship of a certain political pamphlet; but, that in itself was sufficient to induce the Benchers to refuse his application for admission. But if the case of Mr. Wooler were not sufficient, that of Mr. Redhead Yorke placed the matter beyond the possibility of a doubt. Mr. Redhead Yorke had been convicted of a seditious libel, and the Bench of the Inn to which he belonged as student, at once rejected his application for admission to the Bar. That
 911
 Mr. Hill  understood, it was estopped by the certificate. He did not support this Measure, for the purpose of inculpating the Benchers. He would guard against giving any opinion on the case of the hon. member for Colchester, as he was ignorant of the facts of the case, but he thought there was sufficient grounds on principle to support the Motion before the House. First, he objected to the secrecy of the trial, and the want of the controlling power of public opinion; next to the want of power in the party most interested, to enforce the attendance of witnesses. Again, no notice of the charge was given by which the party could prepare for his defence. The principle was bad, and he should, therefore, support the Motion for Inquiry.
 Mr. Lennard  said, he would not have troubled the House with any observations but for certain allusions made by an hon. and learned Gentleman. That hon. and learned Gentleman, indeed, had met this case with that astuteness which he believed was peculiar to the course which he had pursued through life; the hon. and learned Gentleman had met the question with much ingenuity. He had had the honour to present, in a former part of the evening, a petition bearing on this subject, the object of which was, not so much to call upon the House to make an inquiry into the case of the hon. member for Colchester as into the privileges of the Inns of Court. He begged to state, that neither the petitioners nor himself thought it necessary to enter into the circumstances of the case, not thinking that the House would feel it to be a proper subject for investigation. What was the power of the Benchers, who had rejected the application of the hon. Member for admission to the Bar, without stating the grounds upon which that refusal was made? Was it not a great hardship that a person in defending himself should not have the power to summon those witnesses who were necessary to his defence? The powers given to the Benchers were objectionable on four distinct grounds:—First, That they did not give reasons for their decision. Second, Because the defendant could not summon witnesses. Third, Because the witnesse were not sworn. And, Fourthly, Because the Benchers did not give to the Judges the full statement of all the facts given in evidence. In conclusion, the hon. Gentleman said, that his vote would depend upon the sort of Bill which was about to be introduced into the House. There were many evils to amend, but if a Bill were to be brought in to remedy those evils, and to give to the hon. member for Colchester the assurance, that the opportunity would be given to him (and to persons, in future, who might be similarly placed), the means of conducting their case—such a measure would satisfy him. With reference to the Benchers themselves, he had the honour of being known to Mr. Bickersteth—a gentleman who was universally respected—a gentleman, of whom he would say, he had never been the man to desert those
 914
 Mr. Halcombe  said, that in a discussion like the present, he could not but feel a deep interest in a matter which concerned a professional brother. He had examined with great care and diligence into the case of the hon. member for Colchester, and he, therefore, could not remain silent, seeing that, he was perfectly convinced, that the hon. Gentleman had come out of the inquiry with honour to himself. There were two charges made. With reference to the first, it was perfectly evident, that the hon. Gentleman could have had no motive in purloining the document which had been declared to have been secreted by him. He had been at the mercy of a third party, and that individual was the father of his opponent's attorney. One of the charges which had been made against Mr. Harvey by the Benchers was, that he had submitted to a verdict, without seeking to obtain a new trial. But Sir Samuel Sheppard had often, and in various places declared his conviction, that not the least imputation rested on Mr. Harvey. It was stated, too, that the party which gave the strongest evidence against Mr. Harvey, had acknowledged, on his death-bed, that he had done that gentleman great injustice. Again, an agreement had been found amongst the papers of one of the witnesses upon his son taking possession of his office subsequently to his death, though a witness had sworn, that no such document was in existence. This averment, however, was in the hand-writing of his opponent. He had had conversation with many respectable persons, attornies and others, whom he could name, who were convinced, that upon the two chief charges particularly, the hon. Member stood entirely acquitted.
 Mr. Halcombe , in explanation, said, he had been charged by the hon. and learned member for the Tower Hamlets with having intruded his opinion upon the House and with having based it on the opinions of certain nameless attornies whom he had consulted, in opposition to the opinions of the benchers who had decided upon the case of the hon. member for Colchester. He had only discharged his duty in delivering his opinion upon the case when it was brought before the House. The hon. and learned Member said, that none but those who had read the evidence could be competent to form a just opinion in the case; but if the hon. and learned Member had done him the honour to attend to what he said he would have learned that he (Mr. Halcombe) had read the evidence.
 Mr. Pryme  said, that, with regard to the question before the House, he considered it one which, in every way, called for a Committee of Inquiry, that was its most proper shape. It should be considered, that that inquiry would open the avenues which led to the highest branches of that profession from which the judicial Bench was formed. With the hon. and learned Gentleman he thought that purity of conduct and character were more highly to be esteemed than mere talents. With regard to the purity of Benchers, and other officers alluded to, he would mention a circumstance which he had himself witnessed when at Lincoln's Inn some years ago. A gentleman was to be called to the Bar—there then existed a practice, a remnant of which only now remained, that of reading exercises to a barrister. On the occasion to which he alluded, the barrister recognised the face of the student as that of a person who had been tried and found guilty of libel. The exercise closed; and, upon inquiry, it was found that the student was the editor of a periodical publication, and had been convicted and imprisoned for libel. It was decided, that he should read no more exercises as he could not be admitted to the Bar. It turned out that the libel was a private, not a political one. But what was the result? The Benchers, those guardians of purity and public morals—those supporters of the Castlereagh factions, were applied to and inquired into the case. They directed the barristers to continue the exercises. They refused. What did the Benchers do then? They undertook to hear the exercises themselves; the consequence was, that the explanations of the student were listened to, and he was by the recommendation of the Benchers, called to the Bar. So much for the supporters of the purity and integrity of the profession. He considered that the Benchers forming, as they did, an irresponsible tribunal, was of itself sufficient ground upon which to institute the proposed inquiry.
 Mr. Lefroy  defended the character of the benchers of the King's Inns, Dublin, from the imputations cast upon them by the hon. member for Drogheda, and some other Members. He had been a bencher for some time, and he had never heard of a defalcation on the part of any of these persons to the amount of 20,000 l
 Mr. Lloyd  objected to the present system of calling to the Bar. There should be another and a better test of qualification than that which now existed. He admitted, that when improper persons were called to the Bar, public opinion acted upon them, and he believed there was no instance of any improper person called to the Bar having risen to any eminence in the profession. The best control on the admission to the Bar was public opinion; but that control was not exercised by the benchers. They exercised a capricious control, and, while they rejected some, admitted others whom they ought not to admit. On these grounds, he would vote for the inquiry. He would not enter
 923
 Mr. O'Connell  was ready to withdraw his Motion for the purpose of substituting a Resolution, "That it be referred to a Select Committee to inquire into all the circumstances attendant upon the rejection of the claims of Daniel Whittle Harvey, Esq., to be called to the Bar; and to report their opinion thereupon to the House."
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that if the inquiry could be gone into, he meant to withdraw that part of his Motion which related to the revenues of the inns of court.
 Mr. Lennard  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to repeal so much of two Acts of 7th and 8th George 4th, cap. 29, sec. 6; and 9th George 4th, cap. 55, sec. 6,—as was contained in the following words:—"And be it enacted, that if any person shall rob any other person of any chat-
 938
 Mr. Brougham , notwithstanding the lateness of the hour, felt himself bound to proceed with the measure which he had now an opportunity of bringing forward; but in consideration of the advanced period of the evening, he would state, as briefly as possible, the nature of the measure which he had the honour to propose. It was unnecessary to preface this subject with any remarks on the want of parochial registration—of a registry of Births, Deaths, and Marriages—and as this was the only civilized country in Europe which did not enjoy the advantages of a registration of this description, he would at once pass to another point. When he first contemplated this measure, he had proposed to incorporate with it some mode for the celebration of marriage among Dissenters, which would remove the obnoxious feeling which obtained among them at present in connexion with this subject. Such a design was comprehended in the measure which had lately been introduced by his noble friend, the Paymaster of the Forces; but the dissatisfaction of those for whose relief it was intended, though he would not stop to discuss the question whether that dissatisfaction were reasonable or not, had caused the progress of that Bill to be suspended, for the present at least; and this circumstance had induced him to proceed
 941 942 minimum 943 l
 Lord John Russell  also thought, that it would be a national benefit to pass such a measure as was proposed to be introduced, founded upon the principle that
 950
 Mr. O'Dwyer  supported the Motion for inquiry, and assured the House, that they would find amongst the benchers of Dublin a great neglect of duty; and he would add, that instances of peculation were not wanting. He had been credibly informed by a Gentleman, that one individual had appropriated to his own use a sum of 20,000 l
 Mr. Harvey  had understood the hon. member for Norwich to say, that there were not nineteen gentlemen to be found who would not confirm the decision of the Benchers; now, however, he understood the hon. Gentleman to say, that he would be well pleased to recognize the decision of any nineteen gentlemen on the subject. He could bring plenty of persons to prove that they had heard Mr. Welsh say, he voted against the first decision of the Benchers; and he could also show, that another Bencher had expressed his disapprobation of it. So much for the alleged unanimity of the Benchers. The hon. Member said, that the Benchers' certificate went to the Judges with such evidence as was thought fit, and that he (Mr. Harvey) made no objection. How did the case stand? The certificate went to the Judges on Friday, and he had it on the Thursday evening, about six hours before the inquiry. What time had he to object? The certificate contained documents which the Benchers trumped up after the inquiry had terminated; and it contained other matters to which his attention was never called. The recent inquiry lasted nine nights, during which time there was he, with his witnesses in attendance, at an expense exceeding that of an election committee. The attendance of Benchers varied from nineteen to eleven. Some gentlemen were present only once—some twice; some went in and out from time to time; and such was the nature of the evidence and speeches, that some of the Benchers occasionally
 937 ab eodem ad eundem
 Mr. Harvey  said, that he had been in that House for sixteen years, during which he had experienced how little chance any man had of receiving its courtesy, if he were unallied to one of the great parties within its walls, or to some of the great families without; but, however that might be, he was sure, they would not forget the feelings of honour or their sense of justice. To those feelings he appealed. He might, if he pleased, make out a case which would bespeak their sympathy, by showing them the losses he had sustained, and the way in which his prospects had been clouded; but he would not attempt anything of the kind. He would say to the House, as he had said by his counsel to the benchers, that he appealed to their justice, and to that alone. He would not claim for himself any exemption from the ordinary failings of human nature. He would admit, that he might have had his full share of the indiscretion of youth, or that he had not been free from the errors of more mature years, but as to the two instances on which so much stress had been laid in his case, he would say solemnly, that if the Acts of his life were to be done over again, he would repeat those two Acts without any scruple. He perfectly agreed in the statement, that the Motion was not one of merely a personal nature; but that it was a question of character, affecting the House of Commons itself. For nothing could be so monstrous, nothing was so insulting to that House, as to assert, than an individual who had been declared unfit to take a half-guinea fee at the Old Bailey Sessions, was yet fit to be a Legislator—was yet fit to hold the station which, in a free coun-
 924 925 926 l 927 928 929 930 931 932 locus pœnitentiœ 933
 Mr. Shaw : There is not a word of truth in that story.
 Mr. Shaw , as a bencher of the King's Inns, at Dublin, might be permitted to express his surprise at the introduction of that society, as a sort of make-weight in the Motion of the hon. and learned (Gentleman (Mr. O'Connell); for, either in regard to the admission of students or of barristers, or of the application of the funds, there had not been even a suggestion of misconduct or impropriety made by the hon. and learned Gentleman against any Member of that body. The hon. and learned Gentleman had said, that there were considerable funds at their disposal, and some under Act of Parliament; that was true; but then the ground on which the Four Courts stood was their property, and they charged no rent to the public. They had also made over a portion of the land, and some buildings of the society for other public objects, and had then, under their consideration, proposals for a large expenditure of money, in order to promote the accommodation of the two legal professions, as well as of the
 922 primâ facie
 Mr. Sinclair  would vote for the Motion. He should wish to give the hon. member for Colchester an opportunity of vindicating his character.
 Mr. Plumptre  expressed a hope, that the proposition of the hon. and learned member for Dublin would not be acceded to by that House; for, if carried to its full extent, interfering as it did with the property of the Inns of Court, and he saw nothing to limit it, it might have the effect of shaking the whole frame of society.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, his hon. and learned friend (Sir James Scarlett) had not spoken at all upon the case of Mr. Wooler, beyond saying, that Mr. Wooler was convicted of a libel. But his hon. and learned friend knew, that little value could be attached to a conviction for a seditious libel in those times. Here, then, was one case for inquiry, a case of gross injustice, and the other was that of the hon. member for Colchester. He did not mean to impeach the conduct of the Benchers of the Inner Temple, but the mode of conducting the inquiry, which he
 915 l mandamus 916
 Dr. Lushington  said, that the sole question which the House were called upon to decide was, whether the Motion proposed by the hot), and learned Gentleman, the member for Dublin, was justified by the circumstances stated by him? Now, the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman was for a Committee to inquire into the practice of the Inns of Court in England and Ireland, with reference to the admission of students; and also to inquire into the revenues of each Inn, and the application thereof. He thought, that no reason whatever had been stated, for inquiry into the application of the revenues of each Inn. But a matter of infinitely greater importance for the House to consider was, whether upon such a Motion, the House should appoint a Committee to consider the practice of the Inns of Courts with respect to calling gentlemen to the Bar, with a view to make an alteration therein. He thought, that the case of the hon. member for Colchester had been most unjustly obtruded upon the House. It was an injustice to the hon. Member himself and to the House, because he was not aware that hon. Gentlemen had had an opportunity of entering into the merits of the case; and he begged, on his own part, to disclaim any observation upon it. He would not say, whether the Benchers of the Inner Temple were right or wrong; for he had not read the minutes of the evidence, and, therefore, could not, as a man of honour, pretend to give an opinion upon it. The hon. member for Dover had interposed, with the weight of his own opinion, that which he was justified in doing—but the hon. Member had added the weight of the opinion of others, which he was not justified in doing—namely, the weight of the opinion of certain un-named attornies. The hon. member for Colchester had two modes of proceeding open to him. First, he had the appeal to the twelve Judges; and, secondly, that course which had been recommended by the hon. and learned member for Norwich (Sir James Scarlett)—namely, to make a Motion for the production of the evidence. This, he apprehended, was not likely to be refused, and then the House would be
 917 918 a laugh prima facie 919 Harvey
 Mr. O'Reilly  felt considerable difficulty in coming to a decision on the present occasion, inasmuch as he found the Motion of the hon. member for Dublin not only mixed up with, but founded upon, the case of Mr. D. W. Harvey. He was
 921
 Sir Francis Vincent  thought, that sufficient had been said to justify the appointment of a Committee of Inquiry into the case of the hon. member for Colchester. Indeed he should like to have the inquiry extend to the whole objects of the Motion, because if these high functionaries had fallen off from the strict and impartial discharge of their duties, if they had sunk in the scale of social relations in society, it was time that they were restored to their original station. The hon. member for Norwich (Sir James Scarlett) had told them that the examinations of the law students were not severe. Perhaps not the inquiries, but it was in the power of these persons to prevent, by a certain line of examination any person from entering, against whom they entertained a prejudice. The examination, however, ought to be uniform and alike for all. It was not his intention to enter into the question of the funds of the Inns of Court, but he understood, that each bencher had, amongst Other things, a set of chambers worth a
 920
 Sir Harry Verney  did not understand why an investigation into the private character of applicants for admission to the Bar should be deemed of more importance than an examination into the moral conduct of the Members of that House. He should vote for the Committee of Inquiry, because he was anxious to give the hon. member for Colchester the fullest opportunity of vindicating his character.
 Sir James Scarlett  had no intention of opposing any inquiry which the hon. Member, or the House might desire, but he objected because no documents were before the House, and he thought it improper by a side wind to make the original Motion the means of investigating the case of the hon. member for Colchester. He was very far indeed from stating that the benchers shrunk from inquiry; in point of fact, he had stated the very reverse, and he said, that if any nineteen Gentlemen could be found to differ in opinion with the benchers, he should be ready to recant his error. If the hon. Gentleman chose to insist upon an inquiry, he for one was most ready and willing to grant it. The hon. Gentleman, however, ought not to make an  ex-parte 935 936
 Sir James Scarlett  rose to order. The hon. and learned Member could not bring on a Motion of which he had given no
 934
 Sir James Scarlett , in explanation, said, that he had stated originally, in answer to the hon. and learned member for Dublin, that it was a matter of opinion, but that he should be surprised if nineteen gentlemen differed upon the point. At the same time he was ready, if there was ground for it, to recant. With respect to Mr. Welsh, he repeated, that Mr. Welsh did vote against the hon. Gentleman.
 Sir James Scarlett  said, that if there were any evidence to be adduced on the other side, the Judges would either hear or have it reported to them.
 Sir James Scarlett  said, that, as the Motion did not appear to be founded in any general principle, it would be necessary for him to examine a little the various statements or charges made by the hon. and learned Mover of the Resolution. He should do so not so much with a view of preventing inquiry, as for the purpose of endeavouring to point out the foundation upon which inquiry ought to proceed, if inquiry should be thought necessary. The hon. and learned Gentleman had complained of the authority which he said the Benchers of the Inns of Court exercised over the admission of gentlemen to practise as special pleaders and as conveyancers. It was very true that, before any person could practise either as a special pleader or as a conveyancer, he must be admitted by some Inn of Court; but really the proceeding was so much a mere matter of form, in as far as the Benchers were concerned, that, upon their account, he as one of them, could have no objection to any change whatever. The present system was pursued under an Act of Parliament, which dictated the course to be taken. The chief, if not only, difficulty imposed was in the shape of certain stamp duties; and if it should please his noble friend at the head of the Exchequer to repeal those duties, he, as a Bencher, could have no objection; and, doubtless, gentlemen wishing to become conveyancers or special pleaders would be thankful for the change. The hon. and learned Gentleman appeared to think the practice op-
 903 904 905 Hon. Member: O'Connell: 906 l l s s d l 907 908 909 O'Connell 910 seriatim
 Mr. Jervis  said, that if there was any objection to the hon. Member withdrawing his original Motion, for the purpose of substituting the proposed Resolution in its stead, he would move the latter by way of amendment.
 The Solicitor General  said, that he only meant to relieve the House from the consideration of extraneous matter, and bring it down to the point which was the proper subject for inquiry.
 The Solicitor General  said, that the hon. member for Colchester should have his assistance if the object were simply to remove the weight of any imputation that might attach to his character, but he objected to an attempt to do that indirectly which ought to be the ground of a substantive proceeding. Why did not the hon. and learned member for Dublin come down to the House, state the case of the hon. member for Colchester, and make a specific motion for inquiring into it? He was satisfied, that the House would not object to such a course, which was due alike to the hon. member for Colchester, and to the House itself. But he objected to the House going into an inquiry relative to certain establishments, not for the purpose of altering them, but in order to give the hon. Member an opportunity to bring forward his case incidentally. He was not surprised, that the hon. member for Colchester should have taken the present opportunity of making the statement he had addressed to the House—the hon. Member's feelings were perfectly natural—but he was rather surprised at the course some other hon. Members had pursued, more especially as the House knew nothing of the particulars of the case. It was true that there was a report on the Table, but the House had not the evidence of Mr. Harvey's case before it, and therefore was not in a situation to form any opinion on the subject. Why did not the hon. Member ask for a Committee to inquire into the circumstances of the case?
 Mr. Rolfe  would oppose the Motion, but not from any  esprit du corps
 Lord Althorp  said, that he thought the original Motion very inconvenient, but with respect to the Amendment, after what had passed in the House, and feeling, as he must, that if the hon. member for Colchester claimed an inquiry at their hands, it was but justice to grant him the required investigation, he for one would not offer the least objection to it.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had explained his plan in a way which must have rendered it intelligible to every one who had listened to him. The plan promised to be one of a practicable character, and the expense attendant upon it would not certainly be nearly as great as would be necessary, in order to carry any other plan which had been proposed into operation. He hoped, that the details of the measure would be rendered so perfect, as to enable it to work well. It appeared to him, that with respect to the greatest part of the plan, there would be no difficulty whatever in carrying it into operation; but there might, perhaps, be some objections to that part of it which related to communications with clergymen. All difficulty upon this point, however, might be overcome by the establishment of a general registration-office in London, as proposed by the hon. and learned Member. It was in his power to confirm what had been stated with respect to the practicability of employing individuals in the Tax-office department in carrying the details of the Bill into operation. Mr. Wood, of the Tax-office, had informed him, that the hon. and learned Member's plan might be adopted without disadvantage to the conduct of that office. Under these circumstances, he would offer no obstruction to the introduction of the Bill; but would reserve to himself the right of making such suggestions as he might think fit.
 Lord Althorp  said, the House must recollect, that the Motion before them was not for the introduction of any measure, but for the appointment of a Committee of Inquiry; and the question was, whether it were necessary to go into such a Committee. The Common Law Commissioners, in the Report to which the hon. and learned member for Dublin had referred, stated the objections to the present system; but the hon. and learned Gentleman said, that they did not point out the
 912 913
 Lord Howick  said, that, as he understood, the hon. Member proposed to repeal the punishment of death only so far as regarded acts of robbery committed without gross violence and ill-usage, it was not his intention to offer any opposition to the Motion. He believed, that the progressive mitigation of the law agreeable to the dictates of humanity, which had, of late years, taken place, was most eminently successful. Perhaps it would have been better to have abstained from further legislation till the reports were before the House upon the whole state of the criminal law; but as a different course had been followed by the House upon the occasion of the Motion of the hon. member for Liverpool, he should offer no objection to the introduction of the Bill.
 Colonel Evans  said, the noble Lord had denied that there was any analogy between the present measure and the measures of
 959
 Colonel Wood  seconded the Motion, and reminded the House, that he had originally proposed such a measure, which had also been recommended by the hon. Baronet, the member for Westminster. He had not voted on the second reading, because, on the one hand, he did not think the Bill could be modified so as to render it unobjectionable; and, on the other hand, because he did not like to oppose the Ministers, who had manfully come forward to grapple with a subject of the greatest difficulty and importance. He thought, that the Bill should be di-
 956 957 pari passu
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  could not agree with the right hon. Baronet, that there was no ground for opposing the Amendment of the hon. member for Kidderminster. If the House agreed to the Amendment, it would be virtually agreeing to the suggestion conveyed in the instruction. In his opinion it would be better to include the entire measure in one Bill.
 Colonel Torrens  said, that he did not object to the number of Commissioners, neither did he object to the principle of the Bill; on the contrary, he approved of it, and he thought his Majesty's Ministers were entitled to the thanks of the House and the country for having grappled with this great and important question. He looked upon the Poor-laws in their present shape as the most crying evil under which the country laboured; and unless they were checked by arresting pauperism in its progress, they would, in a little time, absorb the whole rental of the country, and establish an Agrarian law of the worst and most injurious description—a law which must end in the starvation of the people, and the depopulation of the country. But while he approved of the principle of the Bill, he must observe, that he thought it too stringent, and that it was the duty of the Committee to render it less so. He thought, for instance, that if, by a clause, they could induce a greater co-operation of the parishes, it would materially increase the efficiency of the Bill. In his opinion, however (and it was to propose an Amendment to this effect, that he rose), it would be right to limit the duration of the Commission; and he would therefore beg leave to move that the appointment be for a period not exceeding five years.
 Mr. Halcombe  thought, it was the duty of the Committee to decide, in the first instance, whether the appointment of the Commissioners was to be temporary or permanent. The Committee would judge of the increased power which this measure gave to Government, when they considered that it would place under their control a sum nearly equal to one-half of the money disbursed for the current expenses of the country. The money available for the actual service of the year was, he believed, from 16,000,000 l l 976
 Colonel Torrens  said, it would, perhaps, be more to the satisfaction of the House if he withdrew his Amendment, until the House was in possession of the extent of the powers to be vested in the Commissioners.
 Mr. Halcombe  was not surprised at finding Ministers so little inclined to be joined with the Commissioners. As the case stood at present, the Ministers were to have all the power without the responsibility. If the Commissioners, or any one of them, were to misconduct themselves who, on that (the Ministerial) side, was to get up and answer for them? He saw no one, and, looking at the case in this point of view, he hoped the hon. Baronet would divide the Committee upon the proposition. The noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) certainly had an alternative, which was, that, as he intended to limit the powers of the Commissioners, the consideration of that part of the case might be postponed for the present until the House had an opportunity of knowing what the powers vested in the Commissioners were to be.
 Colonel Evans  was glad to hear any hon. Member on the other side of the House allude to the patronage created by this Bill. He had done so on a former evening, and got laughed at for his pains. He was opposed to the appointment of these Commissioners with such powers; he objected to this tyrannical Bill; and was determined to resist those who seemed resolved to put down all opposition. He would not be put down by any such attempts; their only effect upon him would be to arouse him to increased energy. There was one thing which he begged the Committee to understand—the noble Lord might carry that Bill by a majority (and, indeed, he could command a majority on almost every question in that House), but he wished it to be understood, that in the short discussion which took place on the Bill, every speaker (save the noble Lord himself) expressed his dissent and his disapprobation of the powers given to the Commissioners, and to the patronage; but Ministers wished to enjoy it, that they might longer retain their places. As to patronage, let the Committee look to what was said by the Commissioners themselves. "The powers," said they "which we recommend to be vested in the Commissioners, is a power now exercised by 15,000 sets of public officers," and they went on to say, that such Commissioners should be removable by the Lords of the Treasury. If this was not additional patronage and power, he knew not what was. It was a perfect  imperium in imperio 979
 Mr. Wolryche Whitmore  felt called upon to say a few words upon the clause, because it appeared to him, that the House had been hardly dealt by, in reference to the Bill before them; for when hon. Gentlemen took upon themselves to assume, that unconstitutional powers were to be delegated under it, they were almost sure to excite prejudices in the country, which would not be fair or justifiable to its promoters. Being one of those who saw no such unconstitutional powers delegated by the Bill—who anticipated most beneficial effects from its operation—who saw the necessity of strong, but not unconstitutional, remedies for great and increasing evils, he called upon hon. Members to treat the measure with something like fairness, and not to attempt to crush it by words and names alone. He really did not understand what was meant by an unconstitutional principle, if such could be found in that Bill. True, a great change was contemplated; but this did not necessarily originate or involve the establishment of either an unconstitutional, or a tyrannical principle. True, they were going to give to another body a great power over a large class of persons and a vast amount of property; but he would ask, whether those persons would not be much more accountable to that House and to the country, than the individuals who had now the control of the taxation levied for the support of the poor. There lay the question; and he answered by saying, that responsible as the Commissioners would be to the Secretary of State and to that House, he for one preferred such a security far beyond that lax and uncertain one which the present system afforded. Was it not obvious, that the Board as at present to be constituted would have the eyes of the whole country always upon them, and have every act closely scrutinized and canvassed? And did any man in that House really believe, that they would wish to abuse their powers, or that, if they were besotted enough to attempt such folly, the Government would not instantly and peremptorily interfere? But, supposing even that the Government did not interfere, where were all the county Members? Where were all the Representatives of the boroughs and large constituencies? Would they not, without a minute's delay, interfere and put down such attempt? He really believed it would not be desirable to limit the duration of the Board. This, however,
 981
 Mr. Halcombe  who spoke amidst much noise and interruption was understood to
 1000
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, he was opposed to the despotic power of the Board more than to the Board itself, badly as the Board was constituted, and indeed its very constitution was highly objectionable. The Board might consist of three Commissioners, or only one—[The hon. Member quoted the clause of the Act, which
 1002
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  said, that the second reading of this Bill had passed in a very thin House; and as the principle of it was most important, he hoped that the hon. Member would not proceed with it at so late an hour of the night. It tended, as far as he understood the Bill, to make a very serious alteration in the law, inasmuch as it would enable any person whatever to pray and preach without either license or regulation. There had been little or no debate or discussion upon the Bill, which was of such importance that it ought not to pass without attracting more attention. He hoped, therefore, the hon. Member would consent to its postponement until a more convenient opportunity.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  considered the Bill as the first step towards sapping the foundation of the Established Church, and, therefore, he would oppose its further progress. The hon. Baronet moved, that the Bill be committed that day six months.
 Mr. Heathcote  was anxious to have the Bill delayed. It was, on all hands, admitted, that it was not free from objection; and he would put it to the good sense of the House, whether it was right to enter upon the discussion of so important a measure at that late hour of the night. He did not desire to throw the Bill out altogether, but he thought that it should be delayed for a week or a fortnight to enable them to know exactly what its provisions were.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  considered the Bill as entrenching on the principles of the Established Church, and he therefore should vote against its going into Committee.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  would be the last person to support a Bill which would destroy the discipline of the Church of England; but it was in order to remove a defect in that discipline that the Bill had been brought in, and numerous communications he had received from different parts of the country, proved to him that the Church desired that defect to be removed. He would state to the House a fact which he had before mentioned. The clergyman of a parish in the neighbourhood of London was in the habit, every Thursday evening, of assembling the parishioners at the workhouse, to the amount of one hundred, perhaps, or more, for the purposes of worship. For years, those who chose, attended; but an information being threatened, the clergyman was obliged to direct that the first nineteen who arrived should be admitted, and the rest turned away. Was it fit, that such a state of things should continue? On behalf of the clergy, and on behalf of the Church, he begged, that this Bill might be passed.
 Lord Granville Somerset  was extremely desirous to know, whether it was the intention of the hon. and gallant member for Westminster to press his Amendment to a division. If such were the hon. and
 984
 Lord Granville Somerset  felt, therefore, that it was necessary for him to detain the House with a few observations. He should like to know precisely and definitely the powers which were to be vested in the Commissioners. Though a judicial power should be with held from them, still, as it seemed to him, they would be possessed of powers perfectly tyrannical. Being parties in the matter, they had the power of repealing laws and putting into execution others, which savoured more of legislative authority than any other power he had ever heard of. He had frequently heard of the tyranny of governments; and he knew that, in some cases, it had been productive of beneficial results; but it was for the first time that he heard the principle of tyranny used as an argument for a measure in the House of Commons. He confessed, that the Report of the Commissioners on the Poor-laws was drawn up with much care and research, and that they had exerted themselves to obtain extensive information; but at the same time that he made this avowal, he felt bound also to state his opinion, that the Commissioners seemed to have a predetermined disposition to grant enormous powers to the Central Board, and to overthrow that mode of relief which had been for many years established throughout the country. Now, when he saw this disposition on the part of persons interested in the Bill, he felt the more anxious to be informed of the extent of the power to be granted to the Commissioners. He could not consent to any measure that would delegate to them an important part of the duty of the Legislature. He firmly believed, that not only the poor, but even the rate-payers themselves, would be affected and injured by the passing of the proposed measure. For these reasons, he could not but feel extremely jealous as to the powers that were about to be vested in the Commissioners. He did not doubt but Government would be careful to select fit and proper persons for the task; but still he should like to know the precise extent of their powers. He should also be glad to know how these Commissioners were to be paid, and to what extent. Were they to be officers salaried by Act
 985
 Lord George Somerset  admitted, that there were too many subjects introduced into this Bill; and if he were as anxious to support many of the clauses as he found it to be his duty to be anxious to oppose them, he should be equally desirous that the Bill should be divided into several parts. Having got through the first forty-six Clauses of the Bill, amongst the remainder there were many which involved subjects of the greatest importance, each of which might fairly take up the House a long time to discuss. There were several fresh questions that would arise—questions which, so far from having
 960
 Lord John Russell  said, that if the House agreed to the Amendment it would be expected that they recognise the convenience of dividing the Bill. He was, therefore, opposed to the Amendment of the hon. member for Kidderminster.
 Major Beauclerk  said, that, in supporting the Resolutions proposed, he could not conceive he was putting off a discussion on the best means to amend the Poor-laws; and he had it from the mover of those Resolutions, that such was not his object, but, on the contrary, he wished to improve the
 971
 Mr. C. W. Wynn  said, that if the Bill was as harmless as hon. Gentlemen would have them believe, no objection should be raised against the delay that was sought for. That was not an hour to commence the consideration of an important measure, especially as the late hour at which the second reading took place, precluded
 1005
 Mr. Baines  was a friend to toleration in the most liberal sense. He thought Churchmen and Dissenters should be put upon a par, without any distinction whatever as to their right to pray in places not consecrated. He had voted for the se-
 1004
 Mr. E. Buller  said, he had not charged Ministers with having introduced this measure for the purposes of patronage; all he did say, was, that a great share of patronage must necessarily grow out of it.
 Mr. Edward Buller  said, he also had given notice of an Amendment to one of the clauses of this Bill. The reason by this unpopular, and, he would say, unconstitutional measure was now proposed, was because the House felt themselves in the same situation in which they were placed last year with respect to the Coercion Bill. They were urged in each instance by the necessity of the case. But here they ought to make the measure as gentle in its operation and limited in its duration as possible. He had the greatest respect for his Majesty's present Ministers, but changes would take place, and let it be remembered, that whatever power they gave to the Commissioners on this occasion, they were placed at the disposal of the Crown. The Secretary of State would be behind the scenes governing all. Then let the Committee look at the pa-
 975
 Mr. Shaw  said, that the hon. member for Bridport was the first who had talked of the Church being in danger. The question as to discipline, however, was an important one, and ought not, he thought, to be pressed at so late an hour.
 Mr. Finch  said, that the question was certainly one of great importance, and if further time were desired he hoped the hon. Member would not press the matter forward at that time. It appeared to him, however, that the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies was mistaken as to the extent of the alteration which this Bill would produce, for, in point of fact, any person might preach already as the law now stood, but the moment he indulged in prayer he became liable to heavy penalties. The law, as it stood, was most absurd; for a man might pray as well as preach to nineteen persons, but the moment one or two more joined the party, his prayer-book was instantly converted into gunpowder to blow up the Church. Surely such a state of the law required alteration.
 Mr. Robinson  rose to move the Resolutions of which he had given notice. He exceedingly regretted, that his Majes-
 962 963 964 965 966 967 in terrorem 968 969 
 "1. That the Report of the Poor-laws Commissioners affords conclusive evidence of the deplorable condition of a large portion of the working population, highly detrimental to the interests of all classes of the community, and especially injurious to the honest, well-disposed, and industrious poor. "2. That, in order to apply an effectual remedy to long-existing and complicated evils, so deeply affecting the well-being of society, it is the bounden duty of a just and enlightened Legislature, when proposing to enact new laws with extraordinary powers for the suppression of idleness and vice, cautiously and deliberately to look into the causes which have operated or contributed to produce a state of widely-spread pauperism, demoralization, and crime, alien to the habits and feelings of a nation, otherwise in a state of unexampled wealth and improvement, and blessed by Divine Providence with the greatest abundance. "3. That this House, therefore, will, by all possible means, endeavour to improve the moral and social condition of the labouring poor by the promotion of beneficial employment, the encouragement of industry, and the removal of those burthens which press upon the productive classes with peculiar severity, in order to restore that harmony, goodwill, and respect for the constituted authorities, which alone can render the nation prosperous and happy."
 Mr. George F. Young  could not reconcile it to his conscience if he allowed the clause to pass without calling the attention of the House to the unfavourable situation he and other hon. Members would be placed in, if the Amendment of the
 986
 Mr. Aglionby  thought hon. Gentlemen had no reason to complain of want of notice, or to make that a pretext for alleging that they were unacquainted with the provisions of the Bill. He hoped they would allow it to pass that stage, knowing they could have any discussion they pleased on the bringing up of the Report.
 Mr. Warburton  contended, that the question as to whether the Church was in danger was so very microscopic, that the Bill ought to be proceeded with. Churchmen, at least, ought to be put on a footing with Dissenters.
 Mr. Benett  objected to the powers given to the Commissioners as too extensive, and the expenses by which the measure would be attended as too large. He should not consent to it unless the powers of those functionaries were limited.
 Mr. Hardy  remarked, that the Church of England was tolerant of every thing but itself. Before the Act of Charles 2nd, each man had a Common Law right to have religious worship performed in his own house, without any limit as to the number of persons present. It was right this privilege should be restored to families who happened to be distant from a consecrated place of worship.
 Mr. Hardy  said, that if they would ensure him a day for bringing the Bill for-
 1006
 Mr. Richards  did not object to centralization as a principle, but did not approve of its adoption in this case. The people of England had been accustomed
 994
 Mr. Pease  said, if he had had any doubt before of the necessity of appointing Commissioners, it would have been removed by the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down. He was satisfied that by the functions of the Commissioners the Magistrates would find themselves relieved from much trouble and ignominy, and the poor would be much benefited.
 Mr. Godson  said, that he would not then occupy the time of the House longer. The two parts of the Bill were of sufficient importance to be made the subjects of separate legislation. He would then only move his Amendment:—"That before going into Committee on the Poor-laws Amendment Bill, it be an instruction to the Committee to separate that Bill into two or more Bills,—Bills to amend the old laws and enact new laws; and one Bill to provide an executive power, for a limited time only, to carry the Poor-laws with uniformity into effect throughout England and Wales."
 Mr. Godson  said, that he meant to speak, and imagined he had spoken, to the question. He said, that the Bill gave the Commissioners unconstitutional and unknown powers; it invested them with kingly, judicial, legislative, and administrative functions,—a power beyond precedent or public safety; and he contended, that there should be a separate Bill from the Bill which went to amend the Poor-laws. He did not say, whether the present measure by itself was good or not; its principle he did not touch on; and so far he felt he was in order. It was, he maintained, too much when a power of such vast extent was to be given to three men, who were authorised to debate and decide with closed doors, in contempt of all the formularies of the established Courts of Law, and the wise safeguards thrown around the protection of the subject. Evidence—fact—everything they were at liberty to dispense with; they were free to do everything, and bound to do nothing. That was, in his opinion, a sufficient reason why those powers should
 955
 Mr. Godson : It was not surely unfair for him, representing an intelligent, enlightened, and, he might say, wealthy constituency of 10,000 persons, to express his opinion and theirs on the tendency of the Bill. If his arguments were so good [ A laugh
 Mr. Godson  was glad one hon. Gentleman could be found to assert, that the Bill was neither unconstitutional nor tyrannical, because it put the point at issue, and he really thought, if it were discussed and settled, the noble Lord opposite could better enter into the several clauses. When he was interrupted by the Speaker, he was showing that the Bill had better be divided into two parts, and that the power which was to be given to a Commissioner was greater than that granted to a Judge of a Supreme Court. Suppose a Commissioner did wrong, the aggrieved party was not to have his action, for an immunity was granted to the Commissioner. Was he then to petition the House of Commons for redress? [ Lord Althorp: 982
 Mr. Godson  rose to propose a Resolution in the nature of an instruction to the Committee. In the course of the discussion on Friday evening, whilst hon. Members had spoken against some of the provisions of the Bill, they had generally expressed themselves in favour of its leading principles. It appeared to him, on this account, that this measure ought to be subdivided into two Bills, each to be considered distinct from the other. He would propose, that all that part of it which was concerned in repealing past statutes, and enacting new ones in their stead, should form a separate Bill by itself; whilst that which related to the appointment of the Central Board, and the power with which they were to be invested, should be in another Bill. The question would thus be divided under two distinct heads,—first, the laws which would be enacted; and secondly, the authorities by which those laws were to be administered. During the debates on the Reform Bill, which had been so much altered during its discussion in that House, it was maintained, and very reasonably too, that it should be divided into two enactments; that the question of disfranchisement was enough for one Act, and the question of registration enough for another Act, if not for another Parliament. When the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) brought forward his measures for the reform of criminal law he did not lump all crimes and penalties together, but judiciously classified them, and placed one order of offences with their concomitant punishments in one Bill, and another in another. So should it be in the present case; arrangement was desirable. When it was considered that the seven million of taxes levied on the country as a provision for the poor were to be placed under the control of a single party,—when it was considered how many subjects and enactments were to be jumbled together in the Bill,—emigration, vagrancy, poor-houses, a Board of Commissioners with power greater than that of the King or Legislature, bastardy, and settlement;—when it was considered, that not less than 484 Acts of Parliament were to be repealed or greatly altered, and that 1,800 cases were advanced in the Report on which to found Legislative Acts applicable to each case; when it was considered that all these great changes were proposed to be effected by one single sweeping Act of Parliament,—he felt called on, as a
 954
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that hon. Members talked of this measure as being unconstitutional, and objected to the powers to be vested in the Commissioners, without knowing the nature and extent of those powers. He certainly could not vote for limiting the duration of the commission at the present stage of the proceedings, nor until he knew what the nature and extent of those powers were.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  remarked, that the hon. and learned member for Norwich had put a construction upon the 13th clause of the present Bill which, in his judgment, it did not bear; on the contrary, he must deny, that any such legislative powers as had been stated were conferred by it upon the Central Board of Commissioners. The powers thereby given were confined to the carrying into effect the other provisions contained in the Bill; they were most clearly defined, and limited to the objects of the measure. At the same time, he admitted, that these powers were extremely large, and ought to be watched and carefully scrutinized before they passed through the Committee. In the course of the present debate he had not heard any plan to amend the present system suggested by any hon. Member who had yet spoken, and it was clear, from the state of England at present, that twelve months ought not to pass before ge-
 1001
 Mr. Slaney  entreated hon. Members who should oppose the measure, to do so calmly and coolly. He acknowledged the abuses of the present Poor-laws, and he believed that they were pretty generally acknowledged. Government had been called upon to introduce a measure to remedy those abuses, and when they resolved upon bringing in such a measure, hon. Members ought to give them some credit and not listen to popular clamour. With respect to the defects of the Bill, the hon. and gallant member for Westminster thought, that the powers vested in the Commissioners might be used for unconstitutional purposes. The evils that were to be remedied were great, and, to remove them, was it not necessary that large powers should be vested somewhere?
 987
 Mr. Slaney  said, that if the Motion of the hon. and learned member for Norwich were adopted, it would be necessary to have all the rules first laid down at great inconvenience in that House; but what would be still worse, they must all be brought into operation simultaneously in all parts of the country. Now, the circumstances differed in different parts of the country, and the Commissioners would be able to adopt the regulations to each district—to feel their way—to introduce the alterations by degrees, and not to cause a feeling repulsive to the new rules. It was necessary to give a discretion at present which, however, need not be continued after a good system had been introduced.
 Mr. Frankland Lewis  said, if a Motion were made empowering the Committee to divide the Bill if they should think fit to do so, he should be disposed to give it his support. But the instruction moved appeared to him to be of a mandatory character.
 Mr. Frankland Lewis  hoped he should not be condemned for wasting the time of the House, since he had elicited the important explanation just given by the right hon. Gentleman. But he hoped he might still be allowed to make an observation or two on the words of the Motion. They appeared to go further than was
 961 Hon. Member:
 Mr. Frankland Lewis  hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman would not press them to go into Committee at such an hour.
 Mr. Ewart  understood his hon. friend to object to the principle of centralization, which he (Mr. Ewart) held to be the very essence of the Bill. His hon. friend objected either to the principle of centralization, or to the means by which it was proposed to carry it into effect. If the objections of his hon. and learned friend were confined to the latter point, they applied to the machinery and the present was not the time to discuss them. If his hon. and learned friend objected to the principle, he was prepared at once to meet his hon. and learned friend, who objected to centralization, that it was not indigenous in this country, but originated in another. If, however, the principle were worth any thing, the objection of his hon. friend was merely a local argument. His hon. friend said, that they were acting contrary to the principle of centralization in establishing Local Courts, and wished to act upon it in the administration of the Poor-laws. In one case the principle of centralization might be necessary, and in another local authority would be more advantageous. The principle of centralization, however, was not new in this country, for it was acted upon in the case of Benefit Societies. General rules for the government of these Societies emanated from aboard; and why not general rules for the administration of the Poor-laws? If the principle were good in the one case, why should it not be advantageous in the other. The question they had to consider was, not whether the powers to be conferred were extensive or not, but whether they were necessary. He certainly agreed with his hon. and gallant friend, the member for Bolton (Colonel Torrens), that it would be better to limit the powers of the Commissioners to three or four years, when, if the system worked well, it would be easy to renew the powers. He would give his cordial vote for the clause.
 The Speaker  said, he believed that any Member would find it very difficult to discover a precedent in which there was a mandatory instruction as to what a Committee of the House should do. The object of moving an instruction was to give the Committee the power to do that which, without the instruction, they could not do. The question could not be mooted without that power was given, and having been given, it was for the Committee to decide whether they would exercise it.
 The Speaker  said, that the hon. Member did not seem to apprehend the exact nature of the question before the House. When the House went into Committee, then would be the time for him to show that it was expedient to divide the Bill into two or more Bills. If his arguments were good before the Committee, his moving for any instructions to them would be unnecessary.
 The Speaker  said, that the hon. Member was not speaking to the exact Motion before the House, which was, whether a power be delegated to the Committee of the whole House to divide the Bill into two Bills or more. He admitted, that the hon. Member was putting his arguments with force; but he should remind him, that they were not exactly pertinent to the subject at issue, and could not, at this stage, receive an answer. The hon. Member was speaking to the principle and general efficacy of the Bill, not to the Motion.
 Sir Henry Willoughby  said, he entertained a jealousy of giving powers so extensive to any set of Commissioners, and the more so when he found they were irresponsible for their acts. He would ask the noble Lord whether he had any objection to adding  ex-officio 977
 Sir Henry Willoughby  asked, if the Central Board were established, what would be the condition of the poor. The power of the common vestries, which were generally composed of farmers and tradesmen, who had a sympathy for and an influence over the poor, would be taken away; and that intermediate power between the poor and the rich being taken away, and the management and support of the poor being left to strangers and a distant and despotic power, the consequences would be dreadful. It was the unanimous opinion of all dispassionate witnesses, Magistrates, overseers, farmers, and others, that the result, of the present Bill would be starvation to the poor. The admission of the noble Lord was enough to convince any one of the terrible evils of the measure when he admitted, that the Board would have nothing to do with individual relief. The great mistake seemed to be, that they did not carry legislation far enough. They should not hand over to any Board that power which the House should exercise. Improvements might be made in the Bill; but why should the House abrogate its proper functions? The evidence and the Report were jumbled together, and the apparent design of both was to show, what was already evident, that the present system was bad, and the only remedy was the proposed bad Board.
 Sir James Scarlett  said, he admitted the advantage and the propriety of having a uniform system of management. He thought such a plan exceedingly desirable. It would be extremely advantageous to have some central body for the purpose of watching over the execution of the law. One of the greatest defects of the administration of the present Poor-laws consisted in the local prejudices, and local feelings, and local occasions, which presented themselves everywhere, and caused a difference in the system adopted in different parts of the country. He agreed in the opinion that it was vain to hope that two or three districts could be well administered if the majority were ill-managed. The evil was advancing through the country, and it could not be corrected, but by the introduction of a better system. He did not, therefore, see any objection; but on the contrary, could conceive great advantages, as he had said, from the existence of a Central Board for superintending the execution of the law and taking from the local functionaries what appeared best in their various modes of practice. But that was quite a different question from investing that Local Board with legislative powers. The powers which he objected to were to be found in the 13th section and some of the preceding ones. From the provisions of those parts of the Bill, it appeared to him, that its effect was, that whereas Parliament had hitherto made certain rules and regulations for the administration of the Poor-laws, which had proved inefficient, therefore Parliament should no longer exercise that function, but should delegate it to Commissioners to be appointed by the Crown, who should make all the rules and regulations for the management of the poor. According to these provisions the Commissioners might Repeal any of the Statutes which related to the support of the
 997 veto 998 l l 999 s d
 Sir James Scarlett  begged to state in explanation, that he had not confined his observations on the 13th section of the Bill, but had taken the provisions of that section in connexion with those contained in the 35th. The latter clause, after referring to the Statute of 22nd George 3rd, provided, that the Commissioners to be appointed should have power "to make any new or other by-laws, rules, orders, and regulations, to be observed and enforced as they, from time to time, should think fit; and to alter at their discretion, any of the rules, orders, and regulations contained in the schedule to the said recited Act, or in any local Act of Parliament." Taking the provisions of the two clauses together, he repeated, that the Commissioners would be invested with legislative powers.
 Mr. Jervis  said, that he felt it his duty to move that the clause be rejected, as he felt that that was the best mode of opposing the appointment of Commissioners. He wished to caution hon. Members, that it would be too late to object to the appointment of Commissioners, should they be unsuccessful in their opposition to the objectionable clauses. There were many parts of the Bill relating to the Commissioners to which he did not object, but they were so mixed up with those parts to which he had insuperable objections, that he was satisfied, that the best course that he could pursue, would be to move that the whole of that part of the Bill be rejected. It was not his intention to object at length to the provisions relative to the appointment of the Central Board; nor would he follow the example of other hon. Members in designating the powers conferred on that Board as tyrannical or despotic, nor in using other harsh terms; but he believed, that none would deny that a great degree of power was conferred upon it. He objected altogether to the principle of centralization. It was admitted, that the Report of the Commissioners was founded on a state of things which prevailed only in certain districts, and to remedy the evils which existed in these districts a certain course was to be adopted; and therefore there could
 988 No, no! 989 990 ex-officio 991 992 993
 Sir Robert Peel  had no very strong opinion as to whether an "instruction" should be proposed to the Committee or not. But at all events, he could not see why the noble Lord should refuse to consent that such an instruction should be given. If the House went into Committee without an "instruction," no matter what might be their opinions afterwards of the propriety of dividing the Bill—they would not have the power of doing so. Why might not the noble Lord then concede that the "instruction" be given—reserving to himself, however, the right of opposing in Committee the division of the Bill? For his own part, he thought there were advantages, in some respect, in having all the code in one Bill. He did not, however, mean to say whether or not in this case a division might not be attended with advantages.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  seconded the Motion, and maintained, that if the Bill were founded on good principles, it would stand the investigation of public opinion, which had always been found correct in the conclusion at which it arrived. He thought, that early in the next Session of Parliament, they would be more likely to approach this subject calmly and dispassionately, and he hoped that the noble Lord would allow it to stand over till then.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  maintained, that the Commissioners had a double power even as regarded the subject of punishment. In the first place they had the power of removing the assistant overseers, and, in the second place, by another clause, namely, the 40th, they could remove the masters of workhouses. He begged to ask the noble Lord, whether that was not clearly and distinctly vesting in the Commissioners a double power of punishment? He would object to that part of the clause which appointed three Commissioners, unless the noble Lord, by some alteration as to their powers, removed his objections. Over these Commissioners, it appeared to him, there would be no control, and he considered that it would be better to increase their number.
 Lord Althorp  had not alluded to the observations of the hon. Member who had just sat down, but to those of the hon. and learned member for Dover, who had charged Ministers with looking mainly to the power which would be conferred on them by the Bill.
 Lord Althorp;  The power of the Commissioners would not be by any means so great as the noble Lord and other hon. Members thought. Their power would be limited, and they would be allowed to act only as Justices of the Peace for the purposes of this Act. At the same time, there was a proviso in the 10th clause of the Bill, which prohibited them from acting as Justices of the Peace for the recovery of penalties incurred under the Act. They would not, therefore, have the power of acting as judges in cases in which they might be looked upon in the light of parties concerned. He thought that their having the power of removal from office of agents employed under them ought not to be looked upon, taking the matter in a constitutional point of view, as vesting in them a power of punishment. There were many persons who possessed a similar power. He admitted, that the measure gave to the Commissioners great discretionary powers, but he really could not see how these powers could be designated with any truth tyrannical. They would be subject to the control of the House of Commons; and it was the first time in his life that he heard anything denominated despotism which was subject to that control. A despotism of such a description must necessarily be extremely limited. The noble Lord asked a question respecting the salaries of the Commissioners. His answer was, that, whatever were to be the salaries, they would be voted annually in Committee of Supply. Such a suggestion had been adopted, in order to give that House more control over the Commissioners in making rigid inquiries as to their conduct, than it could otherwise have possessed. When the vote for their salaries was moved for, the House would have an annual opportunity of investigating their conduct.
 Lord Althorp  said, that at present Justices of the Peace were armed with similar power. The clause alluded to was the only one that gave such power; and when they came to that in Committee it was time enough to examine it. His right hon. friend said, that it was desirable to take away the present power of Magistrates. That was the object of the Bill.
 Lord Althorp  said, in reference to the proposition of the hon. Member that the rides framed by the Commissioners should not come into operation until they had received the sanction of the House, he thought the delay by adopting such a course would considerably impair the efficiency of those regulations, though he admitted, that it would not alter in any material degree the general provisions of the Bill. The hon. Member had also objected, that he had not gone far enough in taking away the immunities proposed to be granted to the Commissioners. Now those immunities had been taken away entirely except in cases of actions brought against them when acting as a Board. That was the only case in which he proposed, that the Commissioners should be exonerated from Liability. The Assistant Commissioners were to have no indemnity of the kind, but only such as was usually granted to Justices of the Peace. The hon. Member had alluded to the taking away from the Commissioners the power of committal for contempt; but the hon. Member had spoken of contempt in the usual sense of the word, instead of the legal sense, which meant an obstruction offered to the proceedings of the Court, by refusing to give evidence, &c. In the next place, the hon. Member had objected to the power invested in the Central Board, of making rules. It appeared to him, that such a provision was
 995 996
 Lord Althorp  said, he would beg to remind the House, that the direct question was not whether they should negative or affirm the Resolutions of the hon. Gentleman, but whether they would pass these Resolutions instead of going into Committee; if they voted for the words of the
 970
 Lord Althorp  said, it was true that, in this Bill a great number of important subjects were detailed, and, no doubt, many of them were measures that might be made the subjects of separate Bills; but, in his judgment, it was no reason for objecting to consider all these subjects in one Bill, to say, that they were each of them of great importance. If they were matters connected together, by their bearing on one common subject, that appeared to him to be a very sufficient reason for retaining them all in this Bill. The hon. member for Kidderminster had illustrated his objections to the proposed plan, by referring to the course pursued by the House on two former occasions. He alluded to the inconveniences which he said were admitted, during the Debates on the Reform Bill, to have resulted from that not having been a divided Bill; and he alluded also to the Amendments of the Law introduced by the right hon. member for Tamworth (Sir R. Peel), and to the great convenience that resulted from the principle of division having been there acted on. Now, as regarded the former case, the object of the separation which took
 958
 Lord Althorp  here rose. It was unfair to the movers and supporters of the Bill to be called on to answer statements that should rather be reserved for another stage of the proceedings.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the addition proposed by the hon. Baronet would be a mere nominal thing. The case of the Board of Control had been mentioned, where some of the King's servants were members; but they did not attend, and were not responsible for the acts of that Board. He thought it disadvantageous to appoint any persons as members of a Board who did not attend to its duties; and certainly it would be altogether out of the power of the three Ministers named by the hon. Baronet to attend the sittings of these Commissioners. The proposition had been under consideration, and it was thought advisable not to adopt it. He thought, too, that it was not advisable to have persons connected with the Administration on the Commission.
 Lord Althorp  wished to inform the House that there were four provisions in the Bill, with respect to which it was his intention to propose some alterations. It would be recollected, that he had stated on a former evening, that it was not the object of Government to give the Central Board one fraction of power more than was necessary to insure its efficiency. Since that occasion, he had taken into consideration the propriety of making some alterations in the measure now under the consideration of the Committee. As the Bill at present stood, the Central Board of Commissioners possessed all the immunity of Judges of the land; but one of the alterations which he intended to propose would, to a certain extent, limit that immunity. It would leave them open to a criminal prosecution, while it protected them against having separate actions brought against them for facts done in their capacity of Commissioners. He thought this alteration would have the effect of diminishing the objections which were felt in some quarters to the appointment of these Commissioners. He cer-
 972 973
 Lord Althorp  said, the hon. and gallant Member's clause would, in his opinion, interfere with the working of the Bill, and he considered, that there was no necessity for it. If there was any thing in the Bill which prevented the removal of the Commissioners, or of any of them, at the end of five years, or of one year, it would be a different matter; but there existed nothing of the kind. The only effect of the clause would be to put an end to the Board at the end of five years, which it would be perfectly competent to the House to do without it.
 974
 Lord Althorp  denied, that the Board would be an irresponsible Board; the Ministers would be responsible if they did not remove any of the Commissioners proved to have acted improperly. Besides, the House itself had a check over the Commissioners, inasmuch as they could not receive any salaries without its sanction. He would then observe, that he would not answer attacks which would have the appearance of making this a personal contest. It was sufficient for him to know, that no man in his senses could for a moment imagine, that any Ministers, however corrupt, would introduce a measure like that before the House for the sake of patronage.
 Lord Althorp  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman must have misunderstood what fell from him. In what part of the Bill did the hon. and learned Gentleman find that the Commissioners were at the same time to make laws and to sit in judgment upon them? By clause 86 of this Bill, it was provided, that all the penalties under it were to be levied, by complaint made before two justices. In no one instance had the Central Board to act as justices. They had the power to make rules but not laws. They were to act as justices of the peace for the execution of the Poor-laws, and there was a particular clause which limited their power as justices to this. Notwithstanding what had been said by hon. Gentlemen, he was prepared to maintain, that the measure was not unconstitutional. There were some Acts of Parliament and many local Acts which conferred as great powers as this Bill did. He was first attacked for the extent of power conferred, and now he was attacked for proposing to reduce it. The hon. Gentleman had made an attack for diminishing the powers of the Commissioners; but if those powers had been left complete, there would be still greater complaints. If the power of punishing for contempt were left to the Commissioners, the hon. Gentleman, and hon. Gentlemen generally on the opposite side of the House, would declaim loudly against that part of the measure.
 Lord Howick  said, the existing laws occasioned an evil that was seriously felt, especially by Presbyterians. They were in the habit of meeting for the purposes of prayer previous to burials; and, according to the present laws, penalties might be inflicted on them for doing so. The grievance was one that ought to be got rid of.
 Lord Sandon  thought, that if a Central Board was necessary, its appointment ought to be of a temporary nature; he would, therefore, support the Amendment of the hon. and gallant Member. He agreed with the gallant Member, in thinking that it would be necessary to incorporate a great number of parishes. If anything was calculated to make the Bill less objectionable to, and less opposed by, the people, it would be the wish manifested by the noble Lord to limit the power and duration of these Commissioners. He would not confine himself to five, in preference to any less number of years, but he would press upon the noble Lord the necessity of limiting as much as he could the power given by the Bill.
 Mr. Milnes Gaskell  was anxious to say a few words on the subject of these petitions, and the more so, as he was placed in a position of some delicacy by the Bill to which they referred. Much of the property which his family possessed was derived from Dissenters, and, on that account, as on many others, it would have
 1035
 Mr. Lloyd  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the law relating to wilful Burning. He understood that the introduction of the measure would not be opposed; and he should therefore explain the outline of it very briefly. His object was mainly to reduce the punishment now affixed to the crime of arson, as he considered it one of the remaining blots of our sanguinary Penal Code. The House was aware, that there were many degrees of criminality, and it would not be disputed that the punishment ought, as far as possible, to be adapted to the degree. His second object was, to give more effectual protection to property. He proposed to retain the capital punishment for setting fire to any inhabited house or building attached, or immediately contiguous to a house, but he wished to abolish it in cases where fire was set to buildings or property by the burning of which human life would not be endangered. He took this main distinction—that offences against property ought not to be confounded with offences against life. He intended to provide, therefore, that where life was not put in peril by wilful burning, the offence should be punished by transportation. Barns or stacks, not connected with or endangering the consumption of dwelling-houses, would come within this distinction. The result of experience had warranted the dictates of humanity in reducing the amount of punishment and increasing its certainty. He entreated the House not to be carried away by any vindictive feelings from the
 1036
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, he had the honour to be intrusted with the presentation of a Petition from the Mayor, Bailiffs, and Commonalty, of the city of Oxford, in Common Council assembled, unanimously adopted at a Council on Monday last, and to which the common Seal of the Corporation was attached. The petition coming from a body of so much consideration, and which, during the three Parliaments he had had the honour of representing the city of Oxford, had not, he believed, presented as many petitions to that House, and also on account of the importance of the subject to which it referred, he had thought it right to give notice of his intention to present it, and then requested the indulgence of the House for a few minutes. The petition, after noticing that a Bill had lately been brought into Parliament to remove certain disabilities which prevent some of his Majesty's subjects who dissent from the doctrines of the Church of England from resorting to the Universities, and proceeding to degrees therein; went on to state,
 1030 1031 l l l l l l l l l 1032 ex uno disce omnia 1033
 Mr. Hill  was clearly of opinion that the effect of the change would be to augment the certainty of conviction. He had defended prisoners whom he knew to be guilty, but whom the Jury from compassion would not consign to the punishment of death. The alteration of the law would prevent impunity.
 Mr. Tennyson  rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice, for the Repeal of the Septennial Act. He considered, that he was now rather resuming an interrupted discussion of last Session than opening a new Debate. The noble Lord, on the former occasion, had moved the previous question, with a view that Members might avoid giving an opinion upon the merits, which it was inconvenient to discuss at that late period of the Session. He had hoped, that in the interval Government might have determined to introduce it as a Cabinet question; and he was quite confident, that several members of the Administration were favourable to shortening the duration of Parliament. He did not at all know what course the noble Lord intended now to pursue; but
 1037
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  remarked, that the period of three years was not fixed at the Revolution, but afterwards.
 Mr. Tennyson  admitted, that the Triennial Act did not pass until 1694, several years after the Revolution; but the Bill of Rights had asserted, in rather equivocal terms, that frequent Parliaments were necessary. It was a  vexata questio 1038 1039 Hear from Mr. Secretary Stanley 1040 1041
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the entire argument of the noble Lord, (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) and of the noble Lord (Lord Dalmeny) who sat behind him, depended on the servility and dependence which would be created by a Triennial Bill. But the question was, did they come there to do the business of the people or their own? and if they came there to do the business of the people, they ought to consult the wishes of the people. They talked a good deal of the wisdom of the people, and surely they must be wise who had selected such a set of philosophic representatives; yet, with all this, the opinion of the people was now to be treated with contempt. For what object had they constituents selected, as was said, from the soundest part of the nation, if their wishes were not to be consulted, and if they could not exercise that salutary control over their representatives which the Constitution intended? There was, however, no very great personal advantage in voting in minorities on questions affecting the interests of their constituents, while the advantages of being found in Ministerial majorities showed whose business many hon. Members had come there to attend to. Were
 1064
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  here observed, that it was just twelve months, yesterday, since he first moved the resolution on which the Slavery Abolition Bill was founded, and their consideration was postponed until the 30th of May, last year.
 Mr. Secretary Stanley  agreed with the hon. Member who had preceded him, that this question had neither novelty nor variety to recommend it to the notice of the House. The hon. and learned member for Tipperary had told them that upon this subject the public feeling with regard to Ministers had undergone a great and substantial change. In what that change consisted, how that alteration of feeling had manifested itself, he (Mr. Stanley) had yet to learn; for when the right hon. member for Lambeth had brought forward the question last year, he had, brought forward at the same time in its support a number of petitions expressing the wishes of different bodies of the people for the passing of some measure to shorten the duration of Parliaments. But now, when this great change had been wrought in the hearts of the people—now, when this great revulsion of feeling had taken place, which was to manifest to the nation that Ministers no longer possessed the confidence of the public, and that they ought to be called to a serious account for no longer possessing it—what was the manifestation of this altered state of public opinion which had been brought forward by the right hon. member for Lambeth? Was there a general outcry on the part of the people for the Motion? No. Was the Table loaded with petitions in favour of the Motion? No. Was there any one petition for sexennial Parliaments? No. For quinquennial Parliaments? No. For quadrennial Parliaments? No. Was there any one for triennial Parliaments, or the six-months Parliaments, which might, per-adventure, be the favourite duration of the Parliaments of the hon. and learned member for Dublin? No. Scarcely was there one petition for either. But suppose the Government were pressed for short Parliaments—suppose the distrust in them, which was stated to exist, to be the fact—suppose, contrary to all modern experience, that septennial Parliaments were injurious to the people; yet it was the bounden duty of the right hon. Gentleman who introduced this Motion, not only to prove the affirmative of his proposition but also to show, that great and serious practical evils would be remedied by it, before he could expect the sanction of this House to such a proposition—he must prove, that something new
 1069 Tennyson: 1070 1071 1072 1073 sobriquet l l l 1074 1075 1076
 An hon. Member  near Mr Sheil—Your first great and beneficial measure was the Irish Coercion Bill.
 Mr. Stanley .—That was undoubtedly a great and important measure; at any rate, he knew that it took up a considerable portion of their time. To return, however, to the hon. and learned member for Paisley. The hon. Member said, that he would not have Annual Parliaments, for he thought it only right, that we should let the gloss get off the newly-elected Representative. But the hon. and learned Member went further, he was as much opposed to Biennial and Triennial Parliaments, as he was to Annual Parliaments, and he would have Quadrennial Parliaments. This was what the hon. and learned Member had called his "ultroneous proposition." What the hon. and learned Member meant by this phraseology, he (Mr. Stanley) was at a loss to understand, for he must candidly confess, that he never heard it before. Let the House consider the contradictory propositions which had already been advanced upon this very point. The right hon. member for Lambeth said, that the duration of Parliament for seven years was too long. "Oh!" says another hon. Member, "I fully concur with you. I will consent to shorten the duration of Parliament to five years." "No," says another, "you do nothing unless you shorten it to three." "Three years," says the hon. and learned member for Paisley, "is too short a period—the gloss is not worn off us—give us four years, and then you will hit the proper medium." Then comes a fourth Gentleman, and he tells us that Triennial Parliaments are too long. "Let us therefore have Biennial Parliaments. In the first year, we shall have a lively recollec-
 1077 Loud cries of Hear Cheers from Mr. Tenny 1078 son and his friends 1079
 Mr. Hill  observed, that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Stanley) had said no motive should induce him to surrender his opinion to that of his constituents, unless he could be convinced that they were right and he was wrong in the view taken of any question. Surely the right hon. Gentleman would not refuse to give other Members of that House credit for similar independence of opinion and action under the same circumstances; and if he did, what became of the right hon. gentleman's argument against shortening the duration of Parliaments, so far as his reasoning was founded on the assumed slavery of representatives and their inability to resist the prejudices of their constituents in the event of more frequent elections? The Members of every Septennial Parliament were in the same situation as that which the right hon. Gentleman so much deprecated, after having sat three years. Was it meant to insult Gentlemen by saying, that if the present question, for instance, were brought on at a more advanced period of this Parliament, they would shrink from expressing their actual opinions, and pander to the feelings or prejudices of their constituents, on account of the approaching election? He did not know that any grounds existed for such a supposition; but if there were any such Members in the House, the sooner they were sent back to their constituents the better. But he felt no apprehension of such misconduct; corrupt as mankind were, they did not like to depart openly from their duty and vote against their consciences. The supposition on the other side of the House was, that Gentlemen who voted for the true interests but against the prejudices of their constituents might suffer for their conduct, and that they would be afraid to go back to the hustings. How could this occur? Were they so weak, so destitute of reason and argument, as to be unable to show their constituents in what instances they had supported their real interests, though it might have been at the expense of offending pre-
 1080
 Colonel Evans  said, that considering the noble Lord's knowledge of the practice of Parliament and the constitution of the country, he felt surprised, that the noble Lord should appear to think Members were bound to vote, not in reference to the Motion which appeared on the papers of the House, so much as upon the opinion expressed by the right hon. Gentleman who brought the subject forward. It was evident, however, that the noble Lord pressed this point for want of some better and more conclusive argument, and with a view to compromise the right hon. Member, and divide the support which he might receive if the question of time were left
 1083 l l
 Mr. Tennyson  stated, in reply, that his Motion was simply for shortening the duration of Parliaments; and, as the noble Lord perfectly well knew, it was precisely the same, in form and substance, as former Motions which had been frequently submitted to Parliament on the same subject. He apprehended, that the reason those Motions had been so shaped was, because, being thus framed, they left gentlemen unpledged and at liberty on the subject of the exact duration of Parliaments, till they should have had opportunities of discussing, in Committee, the particular term that could be most advantageously adopted, while they at once decided that seven years was too long a period for the continuance of Parliament. However, this latter opinion, as to the propriety of shortening the present duration of Parliaments, was the only opinion required from gentlemen who should vote for the proposed Bill. Those who voted against it would offer a conclusive opinion, that seven years was the fit term for the continuance of Parliaments. The noble Lord was an old practitioner, and had put the question proposed to him for the purpose of placing him in a strait. However, he would answer the noble Lord candidly, and admit that he intended (as he had stated) to propose "three years" in Committee, as the period for the duration of Parliaments; but he suggested, that particular term without offering a decided opinion on the subject, and for the pur-
 1084 Cheers
 Mr. John Stanley  stated, that his reason for rising was, because some Gentlemen, who seemed to express their approbation of the proposition for shortening Parliaments, had complained that the period of their intended duration was not specified. In order to give Members who objected that they did not clearly know what they were voting for, an opportunity of supporting the measure on distinct and specific grounds, he should move, by way of Amendment, that the Bill be one to shorten the duration of Parliament to five years. The hon. Gentleman concluded by moving his Amendment.
 Mr. Halcombe  rose to move for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the present state of the Harbours on the coast of Kent and Sussex, and particularly upon the best means of preventing the accumulation of beach at their entrance, and to suggest such improvements as might be deemed necessary or desirable for affording greater safety to the shipping of this country. It was not his intention to detain the House with many observations, but as he understood there was some intention of opposing his Motion, he might be pardoned for troubling them with a short statement to show the necessity of the measure, It was a notorious fact, that, by reason of the accumulation of sand or beach across the mouths of the harbours on the Kent and Sussex coast, which had been suffered to go on without interruption, there was now only one harbour in that part of the kingdom to which ships, overtaken by stormy weather, could resort with safety, namely, Ramsgate; whereas, if the subject had been properly attended to, there were the harbours of Dover, Folkstone, Shoreham, Sandgate, &c., which would be equally accessible. The subject was one of great importance to the mercantile and shipping strength of the country, and he undertook to say, that the course which he wished to be adopted would be attended with very little expense. If the House granted him this Committee, he would promise to bring before them the testimony of several eminent and ingenious individuals who had devoted their especial attention to the subject, and were prepared with plans to remedy the evil complained of. He was aware that it might be objected to his Motion, that, in as far as the Cinque Ports
 1089
 Sir William Chaytor  supported the Motion, and observed that he saw no good reason why five or even three years should not be fixed as the maximum of the duration of Parliaments.
 Mr. John Maxwell  spoke to the following effect:—Sir,—In asking for a Committee of Inquiry into the causes of the distress of 500,000 hand-loom weavers, I shall remind the House of the passage in the Speech of our gracious Sovereign, wherein his Majesty says, "I shall feel it my duty to co-operate with you in such legislative improvements as may be necessary to remove any grievances under which any portion of my subjects may be labouring." I remind the House of this emphatic and encouraging announcement, in order that these artisans may not impute any want of sympathy,—any wish to withhold them relief where a contrary desire is not only felt, but declared, at the very commencement of the Session, and in order to let the representatives of these most suffering and meritorious artisans know, that every proposition for their benefit would receive a prompt and willing support and sanction from the Crown. I am aware that there is, in this branch of the Legislature, a real or an assumed opinion, that no aid can be given to these petitioners, and that the mode of relief which the prayer of their petitions point out, would introduce a system of regulation of the prices of their productions and of their labour, which would fetter trade, and not secure the object they seek—"the best wages that their employers could afford, without injury to the general interests of manufactures, and the welfare of the empire." It is to bring this difference of opinion between the working classes and this House under discussion, that I have felt it my duty to move for a Committee of Inquiry, more particularly because many of these artisans have no direct representation, and therefore have a stronger claim to the attention of every individual in this assembly, who has the maintenance of existing institutions at heart. That my impression of the justice and the expediency of complying with these petitioners' wish
 1091 1092 1093 d d 1094 1095 1096 "That when the silent years have passed away. That when the eye grows dim—the tresses gray— These busy hands a lovelier cot shall build, And deck with fairer flowers their little field."
 Colonel Torrens  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman, whether he was to understand, from what he had just said, that the Government had resolved on instituting, early next Session, a general inquiry into the state of the wages of operatives throughout the country?
 Colonel Davies  was anxious to consult the feelings of certain parties out of that House, but he feared he must disappoint their expectations, He would give his opposition to the Motion of the hon. Gentleman, because he thought it premature, inexpedient, detrimental to the dispatch of the business of the country, and subversive of the independence of Parliament. He was at a loss to understand why it should have been introduced at this time. Within the last two years, they had effected changes amounting to almost a revolution, and far exceeding the hopes of the most sanguine reformers of the day. When the right hon. member for Lambeth endeavoured to prevail on the House to provide Representatives for the town of Birmingham, he never could have dreamt that the Reform was so near which very shortly afterwards was carried into effect. Having been returned for the first Reformed Parliament, scarcely had they taken their seats before the hon. member for Boston (Mr. Wilks) gave notice of a Motion to the effect of the Motion now before the House, but, in consequence of the pressure of the business he withdrew it. The right hon. member for Lambeth, however, immediately after brought it forward. He (Colonel Davies) considered it unnecessary. This House was now supposed to speak the feelings of the people, and everything that was here said was wafted with the speed of lightning to the remotest corners of the kingdom. The present Parliament was chosen under peculiar circumstances; great excitement pevailed; and if any man who came forward declared himself a supporter of the existing Administration, he was supposed to say everything that was necessary to secure the favour of the electors. Many who were returned to this House had given but one pledge—that of supporting the Government which had effected so much benefit. What was the consequence? Why this—that the present Government had a greater number of personal friends and adherents in Parliament than any Government ever possessed before, or probably ever would again. Notwithstanding all this, that the present Parliament was not easily managed by the Government had been sufficiently proved. There had been occasions on which even three brothers of Members of the Cabinet had voted against the Government. The hon. member for Lambeth had stated that the Triennial Act, so far from having diminished, had extended the time of the dur-
 1043 maximum minimum 1044 1045
 Lord Dalmeny  was of opinion, that the very passing of the Reform Bill precluded the necessity of the proposed measure, and furnished sufficient reason why it should be negatived by the House. Whence, he should wish to know, had arisen the distrust and suspicion which the proposed measure involved, and upon which only it could be founded? If the Reform Bill failed of producing the effect intended—if the infusion of a more popular principle into the legislative branch of the Constitution failed to give satisfaction, was the remedy to be sought by the introduction of a still greater proportion of that principle? He hoped, in any discussion which might ensue upon the proposition before the House, that hon. Members would not rake up the speeches which his Majesty's present Ministers had uttered within the last twenty years—[An  Hon. Member: 1046 1047
 Lord John Russell  wished to obtain if possible a clear idea of the precise proposition on which the House was about to come to a vote. The right hon. Gentleman had raised a question as to the duration of Parliaments, without any attempt to settle the exact period of their future existence. The whole question was one of duration, and the point to be decided was whether Parliament should continue for six, five, four, three, or one year; yet the right hon. Gentleman, though he proposed to shorten the duration of Parliaments, did not distinctly state what period he intend-
 1082
 Lord Norreys  rose to second the prayer of the petition. He thought the sentiments so unanimously expressed, in a manner so marked and so decided, by the members of the city of Oxford, (who from long connexion were intimately acquainted with the forms and practices of that University), were entitled to the attention and serious consideration of the House. He had presented numerous petitions on this subject, signed by men of all parties, of various political opinions, men of liberal principles, who had been sincere friends to the cause of civil and religious freedom; who were in favour of the repeal of the Test and Corporation Acts; who had been the consistent advocates of Catholic Emancipation; and who had assisted in carrying the great question of Parliamentary Reform, but who viewed the proposed measure with alarm and astonishment. He would not now stop to inquire, he would not enter into a discussion as to what the effects of that measure would be on the Universities. There were other reasons sufficiently strong to induce him to oppose the Bill. The arbitrary and oppressive nature and tendency of the Bill were grounds, to his mind, sufficient to warrant an opposition to that measure. On what grounds of equity and justice could the House proceed to deprive the Universities of that which had been secured to them by Royal Charter? Their undoubted right to exercise their own discretion in the admission of their members, and the power to frame their own statutes for the regulation of their own concerns. What right, he would ask, had Parliament
 1034
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  assured the House, that none could feel a greater regret for the situation of the poor people than he did; but he thought it would be extremely unwise and improper to consent to the appointment of a Committee. It would be only leading to hopes on their part which could not be realized. The effect of the Motion of the hon. Member would also be the formation of local Boards of Trade, which would be most injurious. But besides these objections to the Motion, the late period of the Session constituted another. Before the necessary witnesses could be got up from Glasgow, and the Committee be ready to proceed with the inquiry, the Session would be so far over
 1097
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that he could not say, that a Select Committee would be appointed at the commencement of the next Session, to inquire into the state of wages; he had only said, that in his opinion it would be a desirable thing to appoint such a Committee, and that neither he nor those with whom he had the honour to act, were disposed to object to the appointment.
 Mr. Edward Lytton Bulwer  professed himself unable to find in the speech of the right hon. Gentleman opposite, witty and ironical as it undoubtedly was, a single convincing argument against the Motion. Who could have supposed that an argument against the Bill should have been urged on the ground of the disadvantage of dissolving Parliaments in times of popular excitement? who could ever suppose that such an argument would proceed from one of his Majesty's present Ministers who did dissolve Parliament at a period of great excitement without discovering those inconveniences which the right hon. Gentleman now apprehended? Nay more, one of those Ministers had that night professed the opinion, that the Government did generally dissolve Parliament when an excitement existed favourable to its own views. He therefore would support the Motion.
 Mr. George Wood  said, that in bringing forward this Bill, he had not sought to promote any political object. He had no wish to interfere with the property or Statutes of the Universities; he only required that all his Majesty's subjects should be equally eligible to participate in the benefits derived from them.
 Mr. George F. Young  thought, the local Boards which already existed amply competent to attend to the grievances complained of. He had not discovered one single argument in the speech of the hon. and learned Member which could recommend this subject to the legislative attention of the House.
 Mr. Warburton  did not think, that a subject of this nature ought to be discussed with such a House (there were not fifty Members present), and therefore he thought the debate should be adjourned.
 Mr. Buckingham : Sir, I can venture to promise the House that I shall be very short, and confine myself strictly to the arguments of the case. The question now before the House, resolves itself into two branches, the one—the historical, the other—the practical. It is to the latter, that I shall principally address myself, the former having been already so amply treated by the right hon. Gentleman who introduced the Motion. The strongest objections to the practical utility of the measure proposed, have been carefully collected and skilfully put, by the hon. and gallant member for Worcester, (Colonel Davies), but they are not, I think, very difficult to answer. The gallant Officer began, by saying, that the Motion was premature—injudicious—and, if carried into effect, would tend to subvert the independence of Parliament. It is matter of history, that the friends of liberty in England, have been pressing for this measure for the last half century at least; so that it is not new; and it is difficult to understand how, that which was urged with so much force, though with so little effect, fifty years ago, can be considered premature now. It may, in the estimation of some, be injudicious; that is purely matter of opinion. But the assertion, that if carried, it would
 1049 1050 Spectator 1051 1052 1053 1054 Vox populi, vox Dei 1055
 Mr. Sheil  said, that the debate on this question last Session did not occupy more than three hours, and he was not disposed to prolong this discussion by any lengthened remarks. The noble Lord had with his usual candour admitted, that such a Motion as the present would have been necessary but for the change made in the constituency pf that House. Now the question was, had such a change taken place? Had the influence of the people in that House been increased? Had that of the aristocracy been substantially diminished? They were told, that he influence of property would be rather increased than diminished by the Reform Bill, and had it not turned out that the influence of the landed interest had increased? There was only one Perthshire by name in the country, but there were many in principle and feeling. Had the influence of the Crown increased? Look at the Acts which had been passed even in the present Parliament, which spawned placemen. There was the Irish Ecclesiastical Bill—the Poor-laws' Amendment Bill, and a variety of others which abounded in new places. He did not charge the present Ministry with an intention of creating those places for the sake of patronage, or with a disposition to abuse the influence which they conferred; but let a conservative premier direct the Councils of Government, (and that was not an event in the highest degree improbable) and let him take this enormous amount of patronage in the one hand, and a seven years' Parliament in the other, and the Whigs might live to regret their rejection of a motion for the Repeal of that Bill. He would put the question on this ground—Ought the present Parliament to be continued for six years longer? What had they done; They had renewed the Bank Charter; they had passed the India Bill; and there were many other important measures on the anvil. If they progressed in this way, to use an American phrase, what an account would they have to settle with their constituents in 1836 or 1839! How large an account had they to settle with the Dissenters! Many Members in that
 1067 1068
 Mr. Blackstone  supported the petition, and contended, that if the Bill were sanctioned, it would be a most unjust and unwarranted interference with the Universities.
 Mr. Ewart  said, that the arguments of the noble Lord went to reject history altogether, or to show that it was nothing better than "an old Almanack." The noble Lord said, "be content with what has been done—let the experiment which had been made work out all the changes." Now, the Reform Act had brought the people and their representatives in close contact with each other, and surely it was necessary that they should be brought together more frequently than once in seven years. That was also the argument of Mr. Pitt in the early part of his reforming career. He (Mr. Ewart) was surprised to hear the hon. and gallant Colonel appeal to the opinions of the incorruptible Shippen, because he might as well have appealed to old Montaigne. At that time the House was under the authority either of the Treasury or of the aristocracy, Mr. Onslow had declared
 1048
 Mr. Gillon  said, that as not only the comfort, but even the very existence of these poor people, might be said to depend on this question, it surely was not too much to ask for the appointment of another day for the discussion of the subject.
 Mr. James  seconded the Motion. Nothing could be more deplorable than the condition of the hand-loom weavers; but he did not think it was practicable to appoint local Boards of Trade to fix the price of weaving, without fixing the price at which the cloth woven must be sold.
 Mr. James  said, that many hon. Members prefaced long speeches, with a declaration that they were about to make short ones, but when he said, that he would not occupy the attention of the House for more than a few moments, he certainly intended to be as good as his word. He was in favour of shortening the duration of Parliaments. Some hon. Members would have them for five years, others for four, and some for three. He had not heard any one fix upon six years. Now he would prefer six. He would prefer six years to seven, five years to six, four years to five, and three years to four. He would not go so far as to say, he would prefer two years to three, but, though within the numbers he had stated, he would prefer short Parliaments to long, yet he would not adopt any of these modes of shortening Parliaments. He would have—and if the right. hon. member should obtain leave to bring in his Bill, and that it should go into Committee—he gave notice, that, when in Committee, he would move a clause, to the effect, that one-third of the Members of that House should go out annually, the decision as to the one-third who should go out to be by ballot. This would be a most effectual improvement, and would save the trouble and turmoil of triennial elections, and would allow the public business to go on without interruption, and would have many other advantages, which he
 1060
 Mr. O'Reilly  dissented from the view taken of the question by the hon. and learned member for Dublin. If the principle on which that hon. and learned Gentleman was prepared to act were carried out, they ought to have Annual Parliaments. But what would be the effect of such frequent elections—even of triennial elections? They would be, that the majority of seats in that House would fall into the hands of men of great wealth, who did not regard the expenditure
 1065
 Mr. William Roche  spoke as follows:—As all the speeches on this occasion have been so satisfactorily short, I propose following that commendable example by not extending my remarks beyond a very few observations—Sir, I always considered, that the Reform Act would be incomplete and unproductive of its promised and expected advantages, until or unless conjoined with Vote by Ballot, and the measure now before the House. I am not an advocate for extremes at either side—I deem seven years' duration or possible duration of Parliaments too long, and I equally disapprove of annual Parliaments as too short; but, I think a wise and judicious medium may be adopted, which it is the object of the present Motion to arrive at. If a representative conduct himself honorably and usefully, he can fearlessly present himself again to his constituents; but, if on the other hand, he has acted not to the satisfaction of those who appointed him, but whom he disappointed, I think three years of possessing the wishes and perhaps the interests of those who returned him, of quite sufficient endurance. In every other relation of life we practise and experience the advantage of quick accountability and surely in proportion to the magnitude of the interests involved, such protection becomes the more necessary and indispensable. As regards future candidates, too, I think more frequent renewals of Parliament would tend to diminish a good deal of the existing bitterness of contests, as the disappointed individual would look forward to a speady opportunity of
 1066
 Sir Daniel Sandford  said, that did not alter his opinion, and he was convinced, that no one would deny, that the new Parliament was perfectly ready to discuss the important measures which were last year submitted to their consideration. The hon. and gallant member (Colonel Davies) who had spoken against the adoption of the Motion now under debate, had most satisfactorily confuted, in the latter part of his speech, all the arguments which he used in the beginning; for he said, that the proposition of the right hon. Member for Lambeth was unnecessary, because the average duration of Parliaments did not exceed three years, so that, in point of fact, triennial Parliaments existed already. That was exactly what the right hon. Member for Lambeth desired—the establishment of triennial Parliaments was the only object of his motion; but, said the hon. and gallant officer, if that House passed a bill, limiting the duration of Parliament to three years, biennial Parlia-
 1056 Dalmeny: Dalmeny: 1057 Vox populi, vox Dei Vox populi, vox diaboli 1058 1059
 Sir Daniel Sandford  said, that the present discussion, as far as it had yet gone, had convinced him that if, as the noble Lord (Dalmeny) had said, new members were ill suited for the task of legislation, old members were but badly fitted for the task of argument, for he had not heard any reason advanced to justify the apprehension of any danger from the success of the motion of the right hon. Member for Lambeth. But was it true, that new members could not possess a capacity for the business of legislation? Had not, he would ask, measures involving the most important consequences to the country been brought forward, discussed, and passed in the first session of the Reformed Parliament? Was not the Coercion Bill—the Slavery Abolition Bill—passed by members fresh from the contact of their constituents?
 Sir Edward Codrington  rose to second the Motion, not with a view to reduce the time of Parliaments to three years, but to five. He believed, that there were good grounds for the Septennial Bill at the time it was passed, but there was no necessity for continuing it now, any more than there had been for continuing the suspension of the  Habeas Corpus
 Sir Thomas Troubridge  thought the subject well worthy of consideration, whe-
 1090
 Sir James Graham  said, he was very unwilling to oppose a Motion which bore such a specious semblance of utility as that of the hon. and learned member for Dover. But he really must be allowed to say, that when he came to consider it, he never had heard a more extraordinary Motion than the present one. As far as he had been able to follow the arguments of the hon. and learned Member, the principal subject for the proposed Committee to inquire into, was, whether certain banks or bars which obstructed the entrance to certain harbours on the coast of Kent and Surrey, formed of sand or shingles, could be removed. Now, he must say, that he thought that would be a very fruitless inquiry to engage the attention of a Committee of that House. He would candidly state to the House, that the Board of Admiralty had lately received several strong applications from the Cinque Ports, desiring that, at the public expense, certain engineers should be sent down to carry certain improvements into execution which were deemed advisable. The Board, however, considered, that the Downs already afforded sufficient accommodation for his Majesty's navy, whether in time of peace or war; and, therefore, that on public grounds there existed no pretence for such an outlay as would be required. But the fact was, the hon. and learned Member had, in the course of his address, anticipated an answer to his arguments which he (Sir J. Graham) thought quite satisfactory; and that was, that there already existed local Boards for the regulation of the Cinque Ports, who were much more competent to form an opinion on the subject than any Select Committee of that House. Under this consideration he felt bound to resist the Motion of the hon. and learned Member.
 Lord Althorp  said, that his noble friend behind him (Lord Dalmeny)had expressed a hope, that hon. Gentlemen would discuss this question without those frequent references to what had passed lately, so much in fashion, which might almost entitle them to the appellation of Parliamentary resurrection men. Now, he did not mean, for one moment, to deny, that he had, at different times, voted for the repeal of the Septennial Act. He did not remember, that he had spoken on the subject; but he had certainly so voted. He had voted thus during the continuance of an unreformed Parliament; and he would state distinctly the grounds on which he did so. He never then entertained the least hope of carrying the great measure of Parliamentary Reform; and knowing that so large a portion of the then Members of that House were sent there on the nomination of individuals, he thought it desirable that the power of the people over those whom they did actually elect, should be increased to the greatest possible extent. He did not agree with the hon. Gentleman who spoke just now, that the effect of this measure, if carried, would be to diminish the dependence of members on their constituents; on the contrary he thought it would greatly increase their dependence. He was not going to argue it was contrary to all the principles he professed, to do so—that Members of Parliament should be independent of their constituents. They ought to be dependent; but, at the same time, he thought they should not be dependent on every sudden and unconsidered mutation of opinion; but on opinions fairly formed after due consideration and deliberation. It appeared to him, that, under the present duration of Parliament, there was no Member in that House who did not, on every occasion that he addressed them, feel that he was responsible to his constituents, and that his vote on every question was materially influenced by their wishes. It appeared to him, that this was a question of degree. He should not argue it as an historical question. He was generally more inclined to argue questions in relation to their practical bearings and utility at the time they were brought forward, than implicitly to follow historical examples. It was not sufficient to prove that at any former period of our history, Triennial Parliaments existed either rightly or wrongly; the question was, would it
 1061 1062 Sandford: 1063
 Lord Althorp  felt considerable doubts as to the policy of the course recommended, though he concurred in the principle that the punishment should be such as to ensure conviction. He also thought it expedient, where it could be done safely, to diminish the number of capital punishments, and to confine them as far as possible to crimes endangering human life. At present a distinction was taken between setting fire to stacks of stubble or stacks of corn, and the guilty had in some instances escaped. He was afraid of meddling with the subject at present, unless it could be clearly shown that the lessening of the punishment would lessen the frequency of the crime by increasing the certainty of conviction. He was not, however, prepared to say, that the Bill should not be introduced.
 Lord Ebrington  would not enter into the argument upon the abstract merits of the question as to the superiority of Septennial or Triennial Parliaments, but was anxious to state the grounds upon which he should give his individual vote on the present occasion. He was one of those who at a former period, and in other places (not in that House), had expressed an opinion in favour of the shortening of Parliaments. He did so when there existed little or no prospect of effecting any extensive or general measure of Parliamentary Reform; but when, in the course of the discussions on the Reform Bill, its supporters were taunted with its being only a stepping-stone to further demands and reforms, he ventured to state, that although he had entertained an opinion favourable to a larger reform, yet if he could see the Bill then before the House carried in its existing shape, he would be satisfied to give up all ulterior measures, and take that as a final and conclusive reform. Subsequently he told his constituents that he should oppose ulterior measures, and, notwithstanding, that he had the satisfaction to be re-elected by them, and to receive their approbation of his principles and opinions. From his experience of what had been done by the Reformed Parliament, and looking to the advantages which he expected to result to the people from their hopes on the subject of representation being fully realized, he felt bound to abide by the opinion he had then expressed, and should therefore vote against the right hon. Gentleman's Motion, although individually he had no great objection to five years being substituted for seven as the period of the duration of Parliament.
 Mr. Baring  said, that, probably, on the meeting of Parliament after the holidays, the noble Lord would be prepared to lay before the House an authentic copy of the Treaty in question. Until that was done, further discussion on the subject would be a waste of time. He could not help remarking, however, that the neutrality said to have been observed by the Spanish troops in Portugal in the present instance was one of a most singular kind, considering that several fortified towns were taken from Don Miguel, and his adherents driven from them. He really thought, that the people of Portugal had had quite abundant opportunity of declaring for Donna Maria, if they felt inclined, without the presence of the Spanish general.
 Mr. Fysche Palmer  said, whether it were proper or not that some new police regulations should be imposed with regard to the beer-shops, the enactments of the present Bill were quite uncalled for. He was prepared to contend, that, by the fourteenth clause of the existing Act, sufficient
 1112 1113 s s l
 Mr. Heathcote  would support the second reading of the Bill, but would not pledge himself to all of its provisions. He decidedly thought, that to put a stop to a full and free supply of beer, would be to injure greatly the agricultural interest. Since the present law had been in operation, the consumption of barley and malt had increased two-fifths. The hon. member for Reading had talked much of the comforts enjoyed by the poorman under the present law. He had said, that the poor man in the beer-house found a blazing fire, while he left at home a cheerless cold hearth. That might be very well for the man—but what became of the wife and the children? He denied, that that was a system contributing to the comforts or the happiness of the poor, which induced the man to leave his home. The object of beneficent legislation was, not to promote such a system, but to clothe the home itself of the poor man with comfort. Then the hon. member for Reading had talked about the Magistrates giving the beer-houses rope enough, so that they might hang themselves. He thought, that the hon. Member had taken rope enough, and fairly strangled his own ar-
 1121
 Sir George Strickland  said, that no person could be more desirous than he was, to check the evil of drunkenness, which all must admit was advancing with rapid strides. But, though as much opposed to the evil as the hon. Baronet, he questioned, whether the present Bill was the best mode of meeting and checking-it. In his opinion, the best remedy would be, to subject public-houses to a stricter system of police. Was it fair, so recently after the passing of the Beer Bill, to interfere thus with the property of thirteen thousand persons; who, on the faith of that Bill, and never calculating on so quick an alteration of the measure, were induced to vest their all in business, which would be very much affected, if not destroyed, by the Bill before the House? In so short a period as three years, it was
 1122 l l
 Major Handley  thought it would be a far better mode to revive the old system, with more stringent severity, at the same time investing Magistrates with enlarged powers. He agreed, that it would be an extreme hardship to those who invested their property in business, relying on the former Act, if the present Bill were allowed to pass. Many interests, which had grown up under the Act now in operation would be severely affected; and he remembered the same argument having been urged when the existing Act was under consideration. Legislation should rather be directed to the public-houses than the beer-shops. [The hon. and gallant Gentleman here read a table, showing a great increase of the former as compared with the latter.] He protested against these so frequent alterations of the law; being of opinion, that bad laws fixed would be even better than these continual changes. The evil would, if means were adopted to improve the condition of the people, remedy itself. He remembered a regiment, which had been stationed for some time in the North of France, the soldiers of which, on being removed lower down to the wine-countries, were drunk every day. This continued for a month; but when the novelty wore away, the practice ceased. The practice of getting drunk was, at one period, not confined to the lower classes; and some gentlemen might remember the time when they thought it something to drink three bottles of wine, The labourer now thought there was some distinction in consuming a quantity; but it was to be hoped a better tone of society would succeed.
 Mr. Ridley Colburn  thought, that the Beer Bill had done more to demoralise and disorganise the people of this country than any other measure with which he was acquainted. They had been told, that the establishment of the beer-shops would break up the monopolies of the great brewers, and at the same time, give to the working labourer cheap and good beer. What, however, was the result of that Bill? It had completely disappointed those who introduced it. Home brewing was scarcely found to exist, and, instead of breaking up the brewers monopolies, the beer-shops found their way into the possession of those brewers. Those beer-shops held out to the labouring man an inducement to spend his time and money in the worst of company, to the serious injury of his wife and family, and frequently led him to the commission of the most heinous crimes. He had heard those opinions expressed not only by Magistrates, but by farmers and other persons more immediately connected with the labouring population. That the evil existed there could be no doubt, and he saw no remedy for it but that of preventing beer being drunk upon the premises where it was sold. If this regulation were established, and properly enforced, he cared not whether they reduced the license to 10 s
 Mr. Baring  said, that if they were not in that measure legislating for the poor man, then they were not discharging their duty. It was unfortunately the case, that the poorer classes of society were more addicted to drinking beer than any other class of the community, and they ought to be hindered from indulging in that wretched propensity. When Gentlemen talked of beer-shops being popular in the country, and amongst the labouring population, he denied the fact; and if inquiry were to be made amongst the honest industrious class of labourers, nine out of ten, if not a greater number, would be found opposed to, and complaining of them. The House had seen that evening a petition from 220 women praying the abolition of these beer-shops, in order that their husbands might spend their evenings with them and their families. It had been complained, that the beer-shops had run to disorder, because the Magistrates did not do their duty. But if they had done their duty according to the opinions of those who found fault with them; if they had directed the police and constables to pry into every corner, and to take up every irregularity on the part of the beer-shops, what, then, would be the out-
 1133
 Colonel Williams  observed, that the hon. member for Bath seemed to think, that the drunkenness of the poor did not lead to crime. A crime itself, it produced every other description of crime. He was desirous to revert to that which had been originally intended—namely, that no beer should be drunk on the premises where it was sold; and if no one else proposed that, he would, in the Committee, move a clause to that effect. He was sorry to see that Englishmen had a great tendency to drunkenness. They were not only great beer-drinkers, but what was much worse,
 1134
 Mr. Lloyd  observed, that by the report of the Committee of last year, it appeared that the advantages of beer-shops in towns had prevailed over the disadvantages; but that, in the country districts, they had been productive of much mischief. As to the question, whether incendiaries had gone out on their work of destruction from the beer-houses or not, he thought it was foreign to the discussion. The evils lay deeper. Much of them might be traced to the degrading effect of the Poor-laws, as they were at present administered. They made men idle, and, through idleness and a loss of all self-respect, they became sullen desperadoes, to whom the preserves which many Gentlemen kept on the road-side afforded temptations too great to be always resisted; but when he said this, he was not insensible to the effects of the beer-houses, particularly in country districts. There was no doubt, that drunkenness had increased in towns and manufacturing districts, but this was not owing to the beer-houses, but rather to the great multiplication of gin-vaults, and to the temptations held out for the consumption of spirits. Much of this was to be attributed to the practice of paying wages late on Saturdays. People went to market late on the Saturday night; and while the beer-houses were closed at ten, the public-houses and spirit-shops were continued open to a late hour. They were filled by those who indulged in the use of poisonous liquors, compared with which the article sold in the beer-shops was good and wholesome. They drank this poison late at night, and remained the whole of the Sunday in a state of stupid bestiality. He thought it would be a good plan to adopt the recommendation of the Committee of last year, that all houses open for the sale of fermented liquors should be placed under similar regulations.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, it was clear, that British subjects had been robbed by the government of a foreign country, because our Government had plundered its subjects. He considered it, therefore, the duty of the Government to see that these sufferers should obtain compensation. He should, therefore, support the Motion.
 Sir George Strickland  had several constituents interested in the question, and he, therefore, would support the Motion.
 An Hon. Member  moved, that the House be counted, and only thirty-five Members being present, the House adjourned.
 Lord Granville Somerset  wished shortly to state the grounds on which he felt most anxious that the second reading of the Bill should take place. It had been his fate to take part in the discussion of the Bill, to amend which that under consideration was introduced, as also to have been a member of the Select Committee of last year, and from the acquaintance which those chance circumstances had given him as regarded the bearings of the Bill then in force, he did not hesitate to say, that its evils were mainly attributable to a want of sufficient attention on the part of the Magistracy to its clauses. He was however, bound in candour to say, that the impression left on his mind by the evidence taken before the Committee of last year was, that the powers vested in the Magistrates were not accompanied by those means of carrying them into operation which alone could render them effective. The principal of those means was an efficient police, without which it must be evident nothing could be done. In large towns the particular want to which he alluded was not so much felt, but in many of the agricultural parishes it had operated in a way to preclude almost altogether the success of the Bill. It appeared, by the Report of the Committee, that in those agricultural parishes the Magistrates, however desirous to execute the powers confided in them by the Bill, invariably failed, from the inability to procure that voluntary evidence which a system of police could alone secure. That being the case, it appeared to him most desirable that in those parishes where there existed no efficient police, more strictness should be exercised in the selection of persons to keep beer-houses. As far, therefore, as the principle of the
 1129
 Mr. Lynch  rose to bring forward a Motion which referred to the administration of justice in the Court of Chancery. The evils of that court, long as they had been complained of, still continued to exist. The measures which had been taken to remedy them had failed. The great delay, and the great expense in its processes, still continued. There was delay in the setting down of the cause; there was delay in the master's office; and there was delay in the course of hearing. The machinery of the court was imperfect, and therefore the whole system went wrong. His object was, to discover a remedy for it, and, by so doing, to benefit the suitors of the Court in which he had the honour to practise. Why should he introduce any comparison between the present Lord Chancellor and his predecessors? How should he better his case by showing that the present Lord Chancellor had heard more appeals than Lord Eldon, and that Lord Eldon had heard more original causes and bankrupt petitions than the present Lord Chancellor? Such a statement would only show that evils prevailed; indeed, they were of very long standing and continuance; they had been complained of in the reign of Henry 8th; they continued to the present times, and were complained of now. They had baffled the skill and penetration of Lord Keeper Cromwell; and he was afraid, that they would baffle the skill and penetration of Lord Brougham. The Legislature had interfered in the year 1813, and to remedy the evils so long complained of, had appointed a Vice-Chancellor. If there were any necessity for the appointment of any additional Judge at that time in Chancery, there was the same necessity existing at present.
 1140 1141 1142 vice versâ 1143 1144 1145
 Mr. Warburton  thought it very wrong to leave British subjects, whose claims ought to have been protected, without any compensation for a loss which they had sustained, owing to an act of our own Government, which had enabled the Crown to appropriate to itself, as Droits of Admiralty, a sum of money amounting to more than ten times the value of that property which the Danish Government had confiscated.
 Mr. Warburton  said, he rose to second the Amendment. In confirmation of what his hon. friend had just stated, that from the first passing of the Act there was a determination or combination on the part of the Magistrates to defeat the Bill, he would appeal to the evidence given before the Committee by Mr. Bellingham, the clerk of the Magistrates of the county of Sussex, who stated, that within three months of the passing of the Act, from all the Petty Sessions, circulars were sent round to the parish officers, requiring from them reports as to the manner in which the Act had operated. Thus it appeared, that even so early the system of  espionage 1114 1115 l l l l
 Mr. Buckingham  spoke as follows:—Sir, if this were a question between the monopoly of the brewers and a free trade in beer, I should not hesitate to give my entire support to the latter. If it were a question between the sale of ardent spirits and the consumption of malt liquor, I should also give the preference to the last, as being the least noxious of the two. But it is a question between public convenience and public morality; and I cannot, therefore, for a moment hesitate as to which I should give my support. The hon. member for Reading (Mr. Palmer) eulogized the present system of multiplied beer shops, by saying, that they afforded, in their warm fires and pleasant beverage, a great, comfort and relief to the labouring man; that was his description of their benefits. Sir, I heard this with as much pain as surprise, for it indicates a low tone of morality indeed, and a lamentable degree of selfishness in the labouring population of England, if their enjoyments are made to consist mainly in a comfort and relief of which they alone are the partakers, and of which their wives and families do not participate in the slightest degree. Nay, not only do they not participate in the supposed pleasure, but they are greatly injured by it; first, by the absence of the husband and father from his natural home, and next, by the expenditure of that which would make the home a scene of comfort to all, in the wasteful and useless dissipation of the beer house. If there were no other argument than this against the present system—that it drew husbands away from their wives, and fathers from their children, and made their homes comfortless by an expenditure of what belonged to all for the selfish enjoyment of one only among the number, I should deem this conclusive, and should, therefore, hail any measure
 1125 1126 1127
 Mr. Parker  rose to submit the Motion of which he had given notice on the subject of the claims of certain British subjects on Denmark. An embargo was laid on all ships in British ports in 1807, and, among them, there were Danish vessels to the number of 320. This embargo was continued till after the bombardment of Copenhagen. The ships were afterwards adjudged prizes of war, and were sold; and the proceeds, to the amount of 1,200,000 l 1136 laches 1137
 Mr. Plumptre  was quite ready to give his support to the measure introduced by his hon. Colleague, to whom the House and the country were, in his opinion, much indebted for bringing the subject under consideration. He would not say, that it might not be possible to improve
 1128
 Mr. Richards  was glad to hear the noble Lord opposite agree to the second reading, and he hoped, that by the removal of some little objectionable points in Committee, it would be rendered effective. He thought, that if it was required that no houses should be licensed as beer-shops which did not pay a rent of 20 l
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that as far as he could see, the same difficulty would exist in obtaining the information necessary to remove a license under the proposed Bill as at present; and how that difficulty was to be met the hon. Baronet had not explained. The Bill made it necessary to produce a certificate, signed by six householders, to obtain a license to sell beer; but what was to prevent six persons from combining to obtain such license for their own benefit? Besides, there were many agricultural parishes in which there were not more than six 10 l 1132
 Mr. Rider  thought the proposed measure would, with some modifications, especially as to the licensing system, be a beneficial one. Many crimes had arisen from these beer-shops. The only incendiary fire that had taken place in the eastern division of the county of Sussex last year, or indeed, for three years past, sprung from one of these beer-shops, the criminal being the son of the woman who kept it.
 Sir Charles Burrell  observed, that the Beer Bill had been passed for two objects, both of which had failed—the one was, to get rid of the monopoly of the brewers, which had entirely failed, for the whole of the trade and the beer-shops had fallen into the hands of the brewers; the other was, to provide cheap beer for the families of labourers, which had equally failed, for very few of the families of labourers got any beer at all. He concurred with his hon. friend in the necessity of adopting some legislative measure to protect the poor man against himself.
 Sir Edward Codrington  supported the Amendment. He knew, that in towns the Beer Act had worked well. In Devonport, the people had deserted the public-houses, and, after taking what refreshment they required, at these beer-shops, they went to the Mechanics' Institution. He would never consent to have the present system broken down, because it was supposed that a few evils arose from it in country places.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  rose to move the second reading of the Sale of Beer Act Amendment Bill. He would, on this occasion, he said, adopt his usual course of brevity, and detain the House but a short time. Though the subject was one of great importance, and one that excited the attention of the country, and called for loud and determined remonstrance from various parts, yet he should not attempt to add additional force to the remonstrances made, or enlarge on the subject, by dwelling on a detail of the evils it had produced. Last Session, a Committee, which sat a long time, was appointed to investigate the subject, and was of opinion, that a provision should be made to correct the evils of the present Sale of Beer Act. Every thing that transpired since—all the com-
 1111
 Sir Edward Knatchbull,  in reply, said, that he was glad of the concurrence of the noble Lord (Althorp) in his Motion, which would ensure him the support of Government. If the Government had intended to take the subject up, he would not have brought forward any measure
 1135
 Sir John Rae Reid  seconded the Motion, having been intrusted by parties with a petition on the subject, whose claims amounted to not less than 60,000 l
 Sir Richard Vyvyan  inquired whether the Spanish troops had entered Portugal before the above Treaty had been signed?
 Sir Richard Vyvyan  called the attention of the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, to reports which were in circulation relative to certain acts of diplomacy affecting our relation's with the kingdoms of Spain and Portugal. It was generally understood that a treaty had been entered into by the representatives of the Allied Powers of England, France, Spain, and Portugal for the settlement of the affairs of the Peninsula. By this treaty it was understood to be provided, that Spain was to be allowed to interfere in the affairs of Portugal, that France was to march an army into the Peninsula in case of necessity, and that England was to be also prepared with a fleet for the same purpose in case of need. And the object of this Treaty, it was further understood, was to oblige Don Carlos and Don Miguel to give up their respective claims to the crowns of Spain and Portugal in favour of the infant heiresses. Such being the reported substance of the stipulations of this treaty, it had been further stated, that the Spanish General Rodil had crossed the Spanish frontiers into Portugal, and that, in consequence some towns had ceased to pay allegiance to Don Miguel, and had gone over to Donna Maria. It was also further reported, that the treaty in question had not been agreed to with such celerity on the part of one or more of the contracting Powers as had been anticipated, and that it had been even returned by the British minister at Lisbon, unratified on the part of the government of Portugal. He did not wish at the present moment, to enter into any discussion on the course of policy which had recently been adopted by his Majesty's Government in reference to those matters, but would content himself with making three inquiries of the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs. First, whether such a Treaty as he had described had been entered into between France, Spain, Portugal, and this country, for the settlement of the affairs of the Peninsula? Secondly, whether any delay in the ratification of that Treaty had occurred at the Court of Lisbon, or whether any symptoms of dissent had been manifested at the Courts of any of the contracting Powers? And thirdly, whether the noble Lord had been officially in-
 1109
 Lord Althorp  would willingly support the second reading of this Bill, but he
 1130 1131
 Lord Althorp  said, that he did not intend to dispute the facts which the hon. Member had stated in his speech; all that he intended to do was, to show that it was not the duty of his Majesty's Government to agree to the proposition which the hon. Member had brought forward. He fully admitted, that, at the treaty of Kiel, due attention had not been paid to the just claims of these petitioners for compensation; and that, as the Crown had obtained large Droits of Admiralty by the very act which had led to the confiscation of the property of these petitioners, it was out of those Droits that they ought to have been compensated. It ought, however, to be recollected, that since the accession of his present Majesty, the Droits of Admiralty had been applied in a different way from that in which they were applied in 1814; and the claim of the petitioners was not now on the Droits of Admiralty as against the Crown, but on the people of England, who had not
 1138
 Lord Althorp  said, that after such an unanimous expression of the feelings of the House, it would be inconsistent with his duty to let it waste more of the public time in the discussion of this subject. The Government would be ready to take measures for the payment of the sums
 1139
 Lord Ebrington  said, that if the measure were calculated to abridge the comforts of the poor man, he should be the last to support it; and it was with the same regard for the poor, that he supported the Bill at present in operation. But, though he would not abridge the comforts of the poor man, still the increase of drunkenness, and its consequent evils, called for some check. The noble Lord read a letter from a gentleman on whose veracity, he said, he could depend, stating that in the writer's part of the country, the evil of drunkenness had arisen to a fearful height. In some of the public-houses, the apprentices, both male and female, were accommodated with beds; that the employers could not trust their agricultural servants to take care of the cattle; and that the ploughmen were drunk in the fields, whilst their families were starving at home. It also added, that the number of improper houses had greatly increased. In this state of things, he would most cordially support the Bill of the hon. Baronet; who was, in his opinion, entitled to the thanks of the country for the paramount benefit it was calculated to confer.
 Viscount Howick  concurred in one part of the argument of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down; and, also, in a part of the argument of the hon. Member who preceded him. He quite agreed with them as to the great advantages that had resulted to the public from breaking up the monopoly which was formerly possessed
 1116 1117 l 1118 1119 l 1120
 Lord Morpeth  was glad to perceive, that his noble friend (Lord Althorp) admitted the justice of the claims; and there was, therefore, in his opinion, no alternative. The House was bound to grant a Committee.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that he would follow the example of the hon. Baronet, and not enter into any remarks upon the various reports which had been in circulation in respect to the occurrences he had alluded to. With regard to the three questions of the hon. Baronet, he begged to reply, first, that he had very great satisfaction in being able to state, that a Treaty had been entered into between the four great Powers the hon. Baronet had named, relative to the affairs of the Peninsula, and that it had been duly signed by the plenipotentiaries of the respective contracting Powers. In stating this to be the case, he spoke with very great satisfaction, and, as far as he himself had been concerned in forwarding the negotiations, with some degree of pride. He would not now enter into the details of the Treaty in question, because, as soon as it was duly ratified, it would, of course, be laid before the House. Secondly, as to whether there had been any undue delay in the ratification of this Treaty, he begged to state, that three of the contracting parties had already ratified it, and that the ratification on the part of Portugal had only been delayed by reason of the forms attending such matters at that Court. That it would be satisfied, however, had been officially announced to him, and he hoped that, in a very few days, the vessel which bore the document itself would be in port. With regard to the third inquiry of the hon. Baronet, it was very true, that General Rodil had passed the Spanish frontiers, as had been stated; but he had done so with the full consent of the Portuguese government, and certainly not with the disapprobation of the Government of the country. The operation of his forces was exclusively directed to dislodging Don Carlos and his adherents from the frontiers of Spain; but he had been perfectly neutral in respect to the civil contest in Portugal. The Spanish troops had not united in any way with the troops of Donna Maria against the party of Miguel, though many most important towns had taken advantage of their presence to declare for Donna Maria. He had again to repeat, that as soon as the Treaty was ratified, it would be laid on the Table of the House.
 Lord Palmerston : Yes; but in consequence of an understanding between the respective governments.
 Viscount Palmerston  begged to explain what he meant by the term "neutrality," and in reference to the conduct of General Rodil. He did not wish to lay any stress upon the word, but merely meant to state that, up to that period, no union had taken place between the forces of the two young queens. Of course, he did not pretend to disguise the fact, that the presence of the Spanish General had been of great assistance to the cause of the Portuguese government.
 Lord Sandon  was very much surprised to hear it asserted, as it had been in the course of the debate, that beer-shops had not increased to near the extent alleged. It so occurred, that he held in his hand a petition, which originated at a public meeting held in Liverpool, over which a gentleman intimately acquainted with the working of the Beer-laws had presided. At that meeting, almost all the speakers bore testimony to the fact, not only that beer-shops had increased to a frightful extent, but that the consequence of such increase was highly detrimental to the labouring classes of the community; and a very general wish was expressed, that the Legislature would at once interfere to abate the nuisance. As the subject had been already sufficiently debated, he would
 1124
 Lord Sandon  was of the same opinion as the noble Lord (Morpeth). He had known an opulent man reduced to beggary by this unjust confiscation.
 Mr. Hult  seconded the Motion. He wished, particularly, to call the attention of the House, and more particularly that of the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Graham) at the head of the Admiralty, to the improvident manner in which the large estates belonging to Greenwich Hospital were disposed of. He was glad to find, that the right hon. Baronet had not attempted any of his former grounds of defence, and that the Motion was now resisted on the single ground of the deficiency consenting to the Bill, would create in the funds of Greenwich. The right hon. Gentleman had admitted, that an extravagant expenditure, to a large amount, had taken place in that establishment; and with economy, therefore, the 20,000 l
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  thought it a hardship to impose this tax upon the most helpless, and, he might almost say, the most improvident, set of men, the merchant-seamen of this country. The right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) had admitted, that the shipping interest was in a distressed state, and, therefore, supposing that they were to derive advantage from this Bill, it would be  pro tanto d s l 1152
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  said, a promise had been held out, that the sixpenny payment would not be insisted on, whenever the expenditure of Greenwich Hospital should be sufficiently diminished, and its revenue derived from estates sufficiently increased to enable the hospital to do without it. The time had at length arrived, he thought, for carrying that promise into effect, and, looking to the condition of the hospital funds, he saw no reason for opposing the Motion of his hon. friend, the member for the City of London. The seamen of the town (Newcastle) which he had the honour to represent paid 2,000 l l l 1156
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that it appeared to him, that the hon. Member did not really understand his own Bill, which, on the hon. Member's own admission, contained the very Christian principle, that no man need observe the Sabbath at all, though its title was, a Bill for the Better Observance of the Sabbath. A man might, under this Bill, pass the Sabbath in entire idleness, though hitherto it had always been said, that idleness was the mother of all vice, and was consequently mischievous. The hon. Gentleman had stated, that he did not, in his Bill, interfere with travelling. Surely the hon. Gentleman had not read the second and third clauses of his own Bill,
 1178
 Mr. Petre  said, that he should be ashamed of himself, and unworthy of a seat in that House, if he did not lend his warmest wishes, and give his cordial and best support, to such a measure as this. He supported it on the broad ground, that the religious opinions of every man, or set of men, should not be used as the means for his or their civil disqualification. The arguments which had been adduced by his hon. friend who had moved the Amendment against the measure appeared to him convincing reasons in its favour. The time was come when religious opinions should no longer constitute the principle of civil disqualification. Every one should be allowed to worship God as he thought best, and, provided his opinions did not detract from that loyalty which he owed to his sovereign, or militate against the interests of the State, there was no reason why he should be debarred from the enjoyment of those rights and privileges which were possessed by the rest of the community. We had no right to interfere with a man's religious opinions—to God alone he was accountable for them; and when coercion was employed, or civil disqualification was resorted to, on such grounds, it was neither more nor less than odious and unjustifiable intolerance.
 Major Cumming Bruce  said. When a similar motion was made to this House last year, I felt it my duty to oppose it, and nothing which I have since heard has induced me to change the opinion I then expressed. The right hon. Gentleman has not condescended to state a single reason in its favour; and no consideration which I have been enabled to give the subject induces me to regard with less regret this renewed attempt of my right hon. friend to inscribe his name among the  Dii Minores 1159 1160 1161 Spent art thou, proud, imperial Queen of Nations, And thy last accents are upon the wind— Thou hast but one voice more to utter—one Loud, dreadful, terrible,—and then art heard No more among the nations. 1162 Which wears the likeness of a kingly crown, But bears a blood-stained sceptre in its hand. 1163 1164 1165 1166
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  had come down to the House for the purpose of advocating the continuance of this payment, knowing that it was absolutely necessary for the support of the Hospital; but to his surprise he found, that there was no question as to subtracting the sum actually from the funds, but that the point urged was merely that this 22,000 l l l Lyall: 1155
 Mr. Lyall , in reply, said, it could not be denied that the merchant seamen were called upon to contribute to a fund from which they obtained, as merchant seamen, no relief, while they were not allowed to contribute to a fund which they knew held out a prospect of relief to themselves or their families. As a proof of the benefits which might be derived from a merchant seaman's fund, he might mention a fact which he had heard since he came into that House—that, in the course of the last winter, 430 claims had been made on the Seamen's Widows' Fund, at Newcastle, in consequence of wrecks on our coast.
 Mr. Lyall  moved the Order of the Day for the second reading of the Merchant Seamen's Widows' Bill. He regretted, that a measure of such interest and magnitude should not have fallen into more able hands than his; and he would state, that the great object which he had in view was to transfer the 6 d d 1147 l d 1148
 Mr. George Frederick Young  contended, that the right hon. Baronet had entirely failed in his argument against the proposition of his hon. friend, the member for the
 1153 James Graham: 1154
 Mr. Buckingham  deprecated the allusion which the hon. and learned Gentleman,
 1175
 Mr. Poulter  agreed entirely with those
 1167 1168 1169
 Mr. Poulter  seconded the Amendment. He took it for granted, that the House meant to legislate on this question; and he thought, therefore, it was time to agree on the principle of the measure. But to the principle of this Bill he strongly objected, as by the 4th and 7th clauses it was evident that the hon. Member contemplated an aggravation of penalties. Now, he (Mr. Poulter) proposed to effect the same object by collateral and ancillary means. The mode he would adopt was founded on the great statute of Charles 2nd, and would prevent the gross evasions which were practised in contravention of it. The decision of Lord Mansfield, in the case of
 1179 v
 Mr. Patrick Stewart  would support the second reading of the Bill, on the grounds that it would not create any material loss to Greenwich Hospital, and it would be an immense advantage to the merchant seamen. The funds of Greenwich were from 120,000 l l
 Mr. Hesketh Fleetwood  moved the second reading of his Lord's Day Observance Bill. The hon. Member said, that as the subject had so recently been discussed on the occasion of another Bill being before the House, it would be unnecessary for him to enter into any lengthened detail of the measure which he had introduced. The principles contained in the Bill, and for which he contended, were simply three,—namely, to prevent all process of manufacture on the Sabbath; the opening of public-houses during certain hours on that day; and lastly, to put a stop to all Sunday trading. The Bill would, however, leave every man to observe the Sabbath in any manner he might think fit; and would not, by any of its provisions, prevent any individual, should he so think fit, from spending it irreligiously. He repeated, that it would permit every man to dispose of the Sunday as suited himself, The objections which had been raised in another place against a Bill
 1177
 Mr. Robert Grant  rose and said, that he hoped he should not be thought guilty of disrespect to the House, or to manifest
 1176
 Dr. Lushington  admitted, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer was bound to reduce the general taxation of the country to the lowest possible amount; but he did not think that the existing mode of raising the sum of 22,000 l d
 Mr. Ewart  could not see any reason for discussing the question longer when so little of argument was brought against the Bill. It would prove equally advantageous to the merchant and the seaman, and, being founded in right and justice, should have his heartiest support.
 Mr. William Roche  said: I should consider myself either violating or forgetting that supreme and proud precept of Christianity, "Doing unto others as we would wish they should do unto us," were I not to give my sincere support to the measure now before the House, for relief of the Jewish people from the Civil Disabilities under which they labour, because of adhering (however erroneously, yet conscientiously) to the spiritual doctrines of their creed. Sir, as a Roman Catholic, so long kept in thraldom, so long oppressed by a cruel injustice because of respecting the dictates of conscience, I should consider myself doubly guilty and ungenerous, did I not hasten to strike off the chains of intolerance from every sect, and view civil rights as the meed of civil services; leaving the mind of man free and unshackled to adore and conciliate his God in the manner he may sincerely and purely believe to be most congenial with the will of the Deity. And, Sir, the more free the mind is left in this respect, the more easily relieved is it from preconceived prejudices, and therefore the more capable and willing to examine into and arrive at sounder and more sustainable doctrines. Persecution perpetuates error, and doctrines the most absurd, may be called into life and vigor, which, if left to their own weakness and instability, would soon die a natural death. Sir, I shall only add, that of all sublunary means (for we must leave the rest to God's own will and Providence), nothing is more likely to wear down the prejudices and pertinacity of the Jews, than permitting them to enjoy and intermingle with us in all the social and civil relations of life. With these sentiments, Sir, I shall give my cordial support to the Motion.
 Sir Daniel K. Sandford  said, that not having seen the Bill for the better Observance of the Sabbath, about to be introduced by the hon. Member who spoke last (Mr. Poulter), he would not say, whether there was anything about it of that Judaical character, which would account for the congenial feeling with which the hon. Gentleman advocated the pretensions of the Jews. But when that hon. Gentleman, and the hon. member for York, referred him to France, to Poland, and to America, for an example of religious toleration, he (Sir D. Sandford) must tell them that he would not turn to these countries, nor to any other as a model for Great Britain in legislative measures connected with religion. He would not resort to France, for she had too often held herself forth as the enemy of all religious principle; he would not go to Poland, for she, alas! had neither will nor constitution of her own; and he would not go to America, for he should ever contend that America, of all lands beneath the sun, afforded the worst, the most fatal example, on every subject that concerned the cause of Christianity. [ Cries of "Oh, oh," from Mr. O'Connell 1170 1171 1172 1173 1174
 Sir James Graham  said, that considerable sums had been given up by Greenwich Hospital, amounting to nearly 20,000 l
 Sir James Graham  begged to assure the House, that he had considered this question with the greatest anxiety, as he was most anxious to afford every assistance to the shipping interest, which, he was ready to admit, laboured under considerable depression at the present moment. But, after the most serious attention which he had been able to give to the subject, he was bound to say (and in doing so he expressed also the opinions of his colleagues) that it was his duty to resist the second reading of the Bill. The hon. Member, who seconded the Motion, had mentioned what he had said in a private conversation with the hon. Member. [Mr.  Hutt 1149 l 1150 d l d 1151 l l l l l l l l l
 Sir William Molesworth  moved, as an Amendment, that it be read a second time this day six months.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the proposition before the House was simply this—to take 20,000 l 1157
 Lord Sandon  said, the question was, whether the merchant seamen should pay this tax for their own benefit, or for that of Greenwich Hospital. He considered it a hardship on the merchant seamen to be called upon to contribute to a fund in which they had no interest, or at best so remote an interest that they could not comprehend it. There was abundant evidence to show, that seamen would much rather pay this sum to an hospital fund from which they were sure to derive an immediate benefit.
 Mr. Hill  was happy to find, that the noble Lord regarded this question merely as a fiscal one, and had given the House to understand, that if it could be shown that the revenue would not suffer by the repeal of the duty on newspapers, his objections to that measure would be greatly removed. Now, he was confident, if the duty were repealed, that the revenue derived from newspapers would be as large as before, if not larger: for the natural consequence of reducing the price of an article greatly in demand was to increase its sale. He was convinced by the calculation of Mr. Maclaren, on which he could place reliance, that the consumption of newspapers in America as compared with their consumption in England, was as five to one; the population of the two countries being taken into account; and it was calculated, that supposing the population of both countries equally dense, the consumption in America compared with that in England, would be as much as ten to one. Comparing New York and England together, it would be found that, in point of fact, the consumption of newspapers in the first-mentioned place was in the proportion of eight to one. Coming nearer home, he ascertained that in the islands of Jersey and Guernsey, where no newspaper duty
 1214 d d d d d 1215 l s d s s l s d s d s l l s d l s d 1216 Penny Magazine Penny Magazine 1217 Penny Magazine The Penny Magazine, The Saturday Magazine, Chambers' Journal, The Mirror 1218
 Mr. Baring  hoped this would not be treated like some other measures of proposed improvement in the law which were introduced at late periods of the Session, and suffered to pass without sufficient consideration of their consequences, and after very little discussion. Highly as he thought of the gentlemen of the learned profession, and of their theoretical knowledge, he must say they did not always prove themselves to be good judges of what was best in practice. He had much experience in such matters, and that experience led him to doubt whether the experiment would be a successful one. He anticipated quite a different result, and, in his opinion, the effect
 1226
 Mr. Stanley  said: I cannot understand why any person who ever did fill the office of a public Minister in this country, or who does fill the office of a Minister, or whom anybody thinks should at any future time fill the office as a Minister—I cannot conceive on what ground such an individual should take the least interest whatsoever in the consideration of this question, or why he should imagine it to be one in the most remote degree personally interesting to himself. For with regard to the possibility of raking up long-departed speeches to which the hon. Member who last addressed the House has alluded—I say with regard to any speech that a Minister of the Crown may have delivered within the last eighty or 100 years, there are at present ample means for reviving it, and I would add, there are also persons quite willing and fully prepared to rake up such speeches—nay, half sentences extracted from them, whether so quoted and garbled as to disagree with the context and spirit of the body of which they form imperfect members it matters not—and this, it may be, for the purpose of putting a different interpretation on the extracts from that which they will fairly bear, and in order to contrast in the strongest light and most unfavourable manner the past and present sentiments of the individual, whether a Minister of the Crown or in some other public situation. But every man who aspires to any public situation in the service of his country must appreciate at its due weight—that is, he must utterly condemn—all such attacks upon an apparent want of consistency in public men as are brought forward merely as claptraps, and for the purpose of producing a
 1233 1234 Samuel Whalley 1235 Samuel Whalley: Samuel Whalley: 1236 Samuel Whalley: Mirror of Parliament Samuel Whalley: Mirror of Parliament Mirrors of Parliament 1237 l l l l l 1238
 Mr. Wynn  said, that he could scarcely comprehend what was exactly the proposition before the House. It was, as he understood it, for an authorized and authentic report of their debates, and then it was stated that they should be published without any restriction save the discretion of the authorized reporters. There was no medium—no alternative to choose between those two propositions. Either it must, after all, be left to the judgment and discretion
 1242 1243 1244
 Mr. Moreton  said, that the question was whether they should refer a question relating to one of the grand privileges of that House to a Committee appointed for quite a different object. If it were necessary to refer it to a Committee at all, they should appoint a Committee for the special purpose of considering it alone. He did not think that the principle of reporting their proceedings as it at present existed called for any alteration. The present proposition involved a great privilege of the House, not only as regarded reporting, but as regarded the seeing strangers in the House.
 Colonel Evans  said, that he could not support the proposition of the hon. and learned Member. He thought that the plan was impossible in the first place, and, if possible, objectionable in the next. He quite concurred with those who thought, that the best security for the proper publication of the proceedings of that House in the daily papers was to be found in their competition. If the proposition was for providing better seats for the reporters in the House, and if, on the part of the reporters, it was shown, that they desired and wanted better accommodation he would be most anxious to support any proposition for providing them with it. But he agreed in the statements which the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary for the Colonies, had made in opposition to this Motion. He agreed with him, that the public papers were the best channels for communicating to the public the proceedings of that House; and he agreed with him that no Minister, pastor present, could feel any peculiar interest in such a ques-
 1247
 Mr.Stanley  said, that, according to his recollection, it was the gallant Admiral who brought down the  Mirror of Parliament The Times Morning Chronicle Hansard Mirror of Parliament
 Mr. Cayley  said, that the vote he should give in favour of the Motion was not for the purpose of having daily reports, but to have an historical record. He wanted to refer to them as to  Johnson's Dictionary Encyclopœdia
 Mr. Lloyd  rose to move an instruction to the Committee on the Baron de Bode's claim, with a view of enabling certain claimants under the conventions entered into between Great Britain and France to be heard by counsel before the Committee in opposition to that claim. The claimants whose case he brought before the House rested upon such real and demonstrable grounds of justice, that he could not conceive there would be any opposition to his Motion. The claims of these parties had been recognized by the Lords of the Treasury in 1830 and 1832. The claim of the Baron de Bode was less grounded than their claims; but if he were allowed an  ex-parte ex-parte 1249
 Mr. Baring  said, that these discussions showed the inconvenience which must always result from yielding to personal solicitations, and making committees of that House courts of appeal for the purpose of administering justice. It appeared to him, that the necessary consequence of appointing the Committee to inquire into the case of the Baron de Bode was, to give a right to every other person whose claim had been rejected by the commissioners to be heard before the Committee. He wished the House and the Committee well out of the affair.
 Colonel Davies  said, that they should adhere to the real question before them, and not wander into matters that had nothing to do with it. The right hon. Gentleman, in attacking the hon. member for Marylebone, had followed the example which he had condemned on the part of that hon. Member, and had indulged in sarcasm instead of employing argument. The question was, not whether the speeches of Ministers or of any other Members of that House were or were not fully reported; but the simple question was, whether, or not, there should be an authorized and authenticated publication of the speeches delivered in that House. All that was urged by his hon. friend on the subject was, that it should be an instruction to the Committee to take that question into consideration. The Committee might report, after doing so, that there was no necessity for any authorised report of the proceedings of that House, or they might report the contrary way. At all events, the question was one well worthy of being sent to a Committee for consideration. He was of opinion, that an authenticated publication of the proceedings of that House would be productive of great benefit. The right hon. Gentleman objected to the proposition on the ground of expense; but he would venture to say, that if they referred the matter to a Select Committee, it could be shown that they might have an authorized account of what passed in that House without costing the public a single shilling of expense. There was no one more ready than he was to admit the extraordinary accuracy with which the public papers gave the debates in that House; but it was perfectly impossible, that the daily papers could give all that occurred there at full length. The question, then, was,—whether they should not entertain the proposition for an authenticated publication of their debates, and send it to a Committee up-stairs for consideration. He supported the proposition, considering that it would be of great public benefit.
 Mr.Rotch  was opposed to the Law of Arrest as it stood at present, but apprehended that in small transactions it afforded the only security to creditors. On the whole, he thought that it would be well for the House to pause before legislating on the subject.
 Mr. Edward Lytton Bulwer , in reply, said, that no tax pressed more directly upon the people than the one which prevented their acquiring knowledge; and it was his determination to divide the House upon his Motion.
 Mr. Edward Lytton Bulwer  said, that the great pressure of business in the last Session, and a variety of those incidents which so often and so unexpectedly started up in the way of any independent Member bringing forward a Motion in that House, had obliged him to defer the question now before them from time to time until this evening; he was at length enabled
 1194 1195 d d l l 1196 a laugh 1197 1198 Penny Magazine Edinburgh Journal 1199 Penny Magazine 1200 1201 1202 d l l 1203 d d 1204 s s l 1205 l l l l l l s d l 1206
 Mr. Shaw  said, that, as an Irish Member, he did not rise to complain that the debates upon Irish subjects were not given at quite sufficient length in the daily papers for all public and general purposes. The question was not, whether the system of reporting their proceedings in the daily Press could not be better, for he believed that for all public purposes a sufficient quantity of their Debates was given in the papers; but the question was, whether it would not be advisable to establish a publication in the nature of a standard, for the purpose of affording an authentic record of their votes and pro-
 1246
 Mr. Grote  said, that he should not detain the House long; nor should he have troubled it all had he not been intrusted with a petition praying for the repeal of the duties that were now the subject of discussion. He certainly entertained very strong feelings on the subject, for he attributed a great deal of the bad feeling that was at present abroad amongst the labouring classes, on the subject of wages, to the want of proper instruction, and correct information as to their real interests. From the absence of this useful knowledge, which could never be conveyed to the people while the present system of Stamp-duties prevailed, arose all the evils of the Unions that now disturbed that proper harmony that ought to subsist amongst the labouring classes in the relations of
 1222
 Mr. Buckingham  would detain the House only with a very few observations. The noble Lord opposite appeared to think that there was a great indifference throughout the country upon this subject, and that any excitement that existed respecting it was confined to the metropolis alone; but he could assure the noble Lord that he was mistaken in this view of the question. He had good reason to know that there was a very general feeling throughout the country against those
 1219 Edinburgh Review ad valorem 1220
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that he did not think that any one had ever advocated the proposition, that everything that was uttered in that House should be reported; but, at the same time, it was plain that an authentic record of their proceedings was much wanted. Every one who attended to their debates, and who read the reports of them in the public papers, must have been struck with the inequality of their execution. Now, he would just inform the House how that difference in the merits of the Reports occurred. There were some reporters so extremely skilful that they could give most correctly every part of a discussion; after them would come a second class of reporters who were not so skilful, and in their portion of the reporting the discussion, a commensurate degree of inaccuracy would be observable; and lastly, they would be followed by third-rate reporters, mere students in the profession, who, with the best intentions to report accurately, would report everything wrong. Such was the cause of the different degrees of accuracy that might be observed in the different stages of the Report of a discussion in that House, as published in the daily papers. Nothing, besides, was more common than to find it stated in the reports in the papers, that the reporters regretted that they could not hear some observations; for instance, of the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, owing to the low tone in which they were delivered, or to the noise that prevailed in the House. There was no intention not to give the observations, whatever they were, on such occasions, for regret was uniformly expressed at their not having heard them. He himself recollected an instance where the hon. Baronet, the member for Hampshire, delivered an important speech on the China trade, which was dismissed in five lines in the daily papers, though the hon. Baronet afterwards published it in a pamphlet. It was, therefore, desirable
 1245
 Mr. Richards  rose amid loud cries of oh! and said he was most anxious to record his disapprobation of the measure then before the House. His opposition was founded on a knowledge of the trade
 1227
 Mr. Roebuck  seconded the Motion. He did not think this proposition could be resisted by those who, for the last twenty years, and before they had attained office, advocated the principle contained
 1207 1208 1209 1210
 Mr. Wilks  said, that all the world was interested in having a complete, accurate, and detailed account of the proceedings that took place in that House; and it was of the utmost consequence to the country that such an authentic record should be established. If this subject should be referred to the Committee, they would be enabled to collect information as to what had been done by Legislatures in other countries on the subject. They would find that in the American legislature, a regular system of ample and accurate reports of their proceedings had been carried into effect. In France, too, it was perfectly well known, that certain funds were appropriated by the Legislature for the purpose; that a reporting newspaper called the  Stenographe
 Mr. Sheil : At all events, the  Mirror of Parliament Mirror of Parliament Mirror of Parliament 1248 Mirror of Parliament
 Mr. Sheil  said, he wished the right hon. Baronet the member for Tamworth had been in the House, for, upon the occasion of a complaint made by the hon. and gallant member for Devonport (Admiral Codrington) last Session, he occupied the House two hours and a-half, and very properly occupied it, with his vindication, and he brought down the  Mirror of Parliament Mirror of Parliament No, no Stanley: Morning Chronicle Mirror of Parliament Morning Chronicle
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that he would not support the Motion, if the object of it was to establish a monopoly in opposition to the daily public Press. He, for one, would say, that the manner in which the public Press was conducted with regard to the debates in that House was such as hon. Members had no right to complain of. If hon. Gentlemen would only refer to the Reports of their speeches in the public papers, they would generally find, that when they were not reported at great length it did not arise from the fault of the reporters; but, that it was the fault of hon. Members themselves, who had not on such occasions spoken sufficiently well to entitle them to a detailed report. He (Mr. Cutlar Fergusson) believed, that, generally speaking, he was as shortly reported as any hon. Member in that House; but of that he did not complain. He thought, that if hon. Members would look to those speeches that were shortly reported, they would find, that in most instances it arose from such speeches being more deficient in point than those that had been given at greater length. The reporters were generally exceedingly happy in giving the points of a speech, and if an hon. Member should be happy in making points in his speech, he would have no reason to complain when he found those points preserved while the unnecessary verbiage was rejected. He would support the Motion, but he would repeat, that he would not do so if he at all thought that it would go to establish a monopoly against the public Press. He supported it because he thought, that it would be of great public advantage to establish an authentic record of all the proceedings in that House. It was not the interest of the public Press to give debates upon many questions, however important those questions might be to certain parts of the empire, at any length; and, indeed, it was often impossible for the daily papers, even upon questions of the highest public interest, to give the reports, owing to the time at which the debates occurred, at any length, if they would give them at all. Every one who attended that House was aware, that important debates often occurred at such late hours, that it was impossible for the reporters to do any justice to them. He had himself often heard good speeches delivered at two and three o'clock in the morning, when it was obvious to every
 1240 1241 Mirror of Parliament
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that the two hon. Gentlemen who had preceded him seemed to contemplate that there could be no debtors but swindlers. When it was said, that trade could not be conducted without the power of arrest on mesne process for debt, he was obliged to ask, had hon. Gentlemen ever cast their eyes upon such a country as Scotland? Did they recollect that there were such places as Dundee and Glasgow? For his own part, if he had any objection to the present Bill, it was, that it was partial, that it was not sufficiently extensive, that it did not go far enough. He could not see any reason why the holder of a bill of exchange or promissory note, or a bond, should have a right to seize the body of a debtor in preference to a creditor of any other description. He thought that fraud or the absconding of a debtor from the jurisdiction of a Court was the only justifiable cause for arresting the person of a debtor, and that simply because it endan-
 1228
 Mr. Serjeant Spankie  was of opinion, that if we put an end to arrest for debt we should destroy the present system of credit, without which business could not go on in this country. The object of arrest was to compel the summary payment of debts which in many instances, could not be collected without such a process. The apprehension of arrest caused men to calculate before contracting debts, and its effect was to prevent litigation. He believed, that if the law passed it would let loose a spirit of adventure which nothing could restrain.
 Mr. Alderman Copeland  would be delighted to see the Law of Arrest for mesne process ameliorated, but entreated the House to pause before adopting a measure the effect of which would be to give one class of creditors a preference over others.
 Mr. Ewart  did not consider, that the noble Lord had been at all successful in his defence of the present system. The ground taken by the noble Lord, who, indeed, seemed to be the only opponent of the Motion on the opposite side, was, in fact, a very weak one. It was, that cheapening the newspapers would not do away the mischief of those cheap publications which were now complained of. This was assuming the whole question. When it was admitted, that the public newspapers were generally conducted with ability, and might be read with advantage by the mass of the people, was it not an injustice to put such an advantage out of their reach by the high Stamp-duties which were placed on them? It was just as if the people were in want of a copper coinage, and that, to relieve that want, there was made an issue of small promissory notes. To say, that the diffusion of useful knowledge would be a great benefit to the community, and, at the same time, to tax such knowledge, so as to put it out of the reach of those to whom it was so necessary, would be just as reasonable as the attempt to make a commercial community rich without giving them a circulating medium. As the representative of a large provincial town, he felt himself called upon to resist all restraints placed on the provincial press. It was well known, that the newspapers published in the country towns were not only the means of conveying political intelligence, but of affording also much scientific and literary instruction. He
 1221 l
 Mr. Tooke  gave the Bill his cordial concurrence. He wished to set the hon. member for Knaresborough right upon one point. So far from excessive legal costs arising out of this measure, the contrary would be the case. The main expense was now occasioned by proving book debts, which would be done away with by the present measure. Tradesmen would, in future, take written acknowledgments, and the cost of proving the delivery of goods would be avoided.
 Mr. Tooke  rose to move, pursuant to notice, that it be an instruction to the Select Committee on the business of the House, to consider and report on the expediency of establishing or encouraging the publi-
 1229 1230
 Mr. Tooke , in reply, observed, that he did not wish to have  verbatim
 Sir Edward Codrington  said, that it was he who referred to the  Mirror of Parliament The Times Morning Chronicle Hansard Mirror of Parliament
 Mr. Pollock  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the Abolition of Arrest for Debt on Mesne Process. The House must be aware, that some time ago there was a report presented upon the subject by the Common-law Commissioners, in which many statements were made, and many interesting details given, with which it was not his intention to trouble the House on the present occasion. He believed that there was not any man acquainted with the Constitution of this country, who would deny that, as the law originally stood, arrest of the person was only permitted in cases where the plaintiff complained of injuries that had been perpetrated upon him by the defendant by force, and that arrest of the person for simple contract debts was, comparatively speaking, a modern practice. Though the avowed object of the practice was to compel the defendant to give security for his personal appearance in Court at the suit of the plaintiff, it was well known that, in ninety-nine cases out of 100, that was not the real object. The real object was to compel the immediate payment of the debt, or, by the menace of imprisoning the defendant, to compel his relations to discharge it for him, and thus it happened that the apparent seldom, if ever, coincided with the real object. He did not expect to hear any man assert, that the present state of the Law of Debtor and Creditor did not require amendment. He had the honour to be one of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the necessity of its Amendment, and he was bound in fairness to admit, that the Report of those Commissioners had not been unanimous. One of the Commissioners had differed from his colleagues; but the majority had concurred in the propriety
 1224 1225
 Sir Samuel Whalley  observed, that he could well understand why members of an Administration might be reluctant to have their speeches reported at length, particularly if they had recently sat on the Opposition side of the House—lest by-gone speeches should be disinterred from their graves and quoted against their authors at a future opportunity. But there were other parties whose interests it was the duty of the House to consult—he meant the interests of their constituents, by whom Members had been sent to Parliament. It was right, that their constituents should be acquainted with the speeches and acts of Members. If Members wished to discharge their duty conscientiously, they would desire those whom they represented to be fully apprised of their proceedings. He was sure, that from one end of the country to the other there was no individual who would grudge the expense of an accurate report of all the proceedings of Parliament—none but would desire a faithful mirror of all that passed in the House, provided that the mirror were not so scrupulously accurate as to reflect in the strongest colours their occasional defects. He did not wish to interfere with the privileges of the House, the Committee would consider that subject. He might observe, that it would be possible to circulate the debates among Members themselves, without touching the question of privilege. He was of opinion, that it would be a national shame and a public loss, if the very able publication which he had in view in these remarks should be suffered to drop for want of funds. The debates in Parliament went to every nation in the world, and were commented on in every court in Europe [ Laughter 1232
 Lord Althorp  said, that the House should not agree to the proposed instruction to the Select Committee unless it thought the object of that instruction one which ought to be adopted. The question for the House to consider was, whether the proposed object was desirable. The subject had been discussed on former occasions when the general feeling appeared to be, that what was now proposed with respect to the debates would be more inconvenient than otherwise, if carried into effect. With respect to public business, he did not think that the public felt any great loss in consequence of the manner in which the reports in the newspapers were now given, for certainly, to the extent to which those reports could go, their fidelity and accuracy were such as created surprise rather than disappointment. If the report of the debates were to be further extended, and every word was to be taken down in short-hand as it should be spoken, they must reach an enormous extent in the first place, and in the second, he was afraid that the record would not do any great credit to the character of Members for the purity of the English which was sometimes spoken. In fact, the debates would be so voluminous that the public would never wade through them. He had spoken of the reports of public business; and with respect to private business, he must add that he did not think when any matter of importance to the public in that way came before the House, that there was any deficiency in the reports even of that description of business. Certainly in ordinary cases of private business, where no opposition occurred, in which there was no contest or debate of much importance, but little notice was taken of those proceedings in the newspapers; he could not, however, think, that upon this ground alone it was desirable to concur in the hon. Member's motion. Having heard Gentlemen at different times moot the same question, he was not now convinced of the expediency any more than he had before been of recording every syllable that was uttered in that House. The record would be so voluminous that it would not find readers; it must be in a great measure perfectly uninteresting to the public. Under such circumstances he did not think it desirable to introduce
 1231
 Lord Althorp  said, the hon. Member who opened the debate complained of the apathy with which the House had listened to him, and the hon. and learned Gentleman who followed him did all he could to produce excitement by making a personal attack on him. If such, however, had been the hon. and learned Member's object, his attempt must be considered a failure. He would give a further proof that it was, by passing over every observation directed against himself. He thought that the opinion of the majority of that House was decidedly against the Motion then before them, and the apathy of which the hon. Member complained was one of his strongest reasons for opposing the Motion. The House would recollect, that last year he admitted, that it was his intention to take into consideration the propriety of repealing this tax; but, upon further consideration he had resolved not to do so. That announcement was received with approbation by the House, and one great reason why he would not consent to the Motion was the manner in which his former intimation was received. He believed, that many persons in that House and in the country generally were inclined to go further than himself in reduction of taxation. To this he did not object; but he believed that, in the present state of the demands of the country for repeal of taxation, he should not do wisely in selecting this impost as one to be abolished. It had indeed been contended that, by the plans proposed, not only the whole amount of the present tax would be made up, but that a great increase even might be fairly anticipated. This conclusion, however, appeared to him to be founded on erroneous calculations; for if a postage were charged upon newspapers, it was quite clear, that a large amount of newspapers would no longer be sent by the post, as they could
 1211 1212 1213
 Lord Althorp  said, that if the Baron de Bode should succeed in establishing his claim, the amount of the fund would  pro tanto
 Mr. Cayley  said, the ultimate object of appointing this commission was certainly not to take from the Magistracy the exercise of the powers at present vested in them, but to create a uniformity of practice throughout the kingdom, and to en-
 1285
 Mr. Hodyes  adverted to the Bill introduced by Mr. Whitbread in 1796 for the better Regulation of Labourers' Wages, and pointed out the effect which the Bill of 1819 respecting the currency had upon the value of money, and all money transactions, and was proceeding to observe upon the hardship of depriving poor labourers of that parish relief to which they had been accustomed to look up for the last forty years, and compelling them to go with their families into work houses. The hon. Member was proceeding to discuss the general question, when—
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, he considered it his duty to take that opportunity of stating that he understood, for he had not yet seen it, a petition against several of the provisions of the Bill, and particularly against the despotic and unconstitutional powers proposed to be given to the Central Board of Commissioners, which the clause then under the consideration of the Com-
 1287
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, he was ignorant of the fact; but he begged further to state, that he had received private information from Oxford, on which he could rely, that, unless the Bill should be greatly modified, and, in particular, the powers proposed to be given to the Central Board and their Assistant-Commissioners materially altered, not a single individual of responsibility and intelligence in the city of Oxford would be found willing to take upon himself the duties of a Guardian of the Poor of that city. Eleven of the parishes were united; uniformity of assessments, of rating, and of parochial relief and management, therefore, existed throughout the city, and no complaints or calls for attention had been made. The Corporation of Guardians unanimously objected to having placed over them the unconstitutional boards of control sought to be established; and, if the Bill should pass into a law in any thing like its present form, the Commissioners might go down to Oxford and execute all the parochial duties of that city themselves, for, he repeated, no respectable and intelligent inhabitant would be found to undertake them.
 Colonel Evans  deprecated the interruptions which had been given to the last speaker, and complained, that they came with a very bad grace from hon. Members, who had made several speeches themselves in the course of the evening. He was disposed to support the Amendment on account of the quarter from whence it came; for he well knew, that the hon. member for Kent was better versed in the practical operation of the Poor-laws than any of the gentlemen from whom the Report on the Poor-laws had emanated. The hon. member for Kent was acquainted not only with the operation of the Poor-laws in Kent, but also with their operation in the neighbouring county of Sussex, where the Poor-laws were said to work worse than in any other portion of England. From that circumstance he presumed, that the hon. Member knew that some improvement in the practical working of the Poor-laws had recently taken place in Sussex. The noble Lord had objected to this Amendment, on the ground that the diminution in the amount of the Poor-rates might be occasioned, not by any improvement in the management of the parochial funds, but by an increase in the value of money. Now, if the hon. member for Kent would reconsider his Amendment, and shape it so as to meet the objection of the noble Lord, he had no
 1289 l
 Mr. Cayley  said, that as he came from the same part of the country with the hon. member for Leeds, he would beg leave to intrude his sentiments upon this subject on the Committee. In the parishes in his immediate neighbourhood the poor-rates did not exceed 1 s d s
 The Earl of Darlington  said, that hon. Gentlemen had complained of the severity of the remedies provided by this Bill. Now, allowing that the remedies were severe, still it did not follow, that they would be applied in cases where no disease existed. If a case of necessity for arming the Commissioners with these powers could not be made out, they ought not to have them. But where the evil was obstinate and of long duration, it could not be extirpated except by the application of extraordinary powers. In parishes which were well administered, the Commissioners would not interfere—for instance, it was not likely that they would interfere in a parish like that of St. George, Hanover-
 1291
 Colonel Wood  said, that as the Committee had now come to the Clause for the appointment of Assistant-Commissioners, he would state the reasons why he considered it objectionable, and why he thought that it would be preferable to have visitors for each county appointed by the Magistrates at Quarter Sessions. This Clause enabled the three Commissioners of the Central Board to appoint nine Assistant-Commissioners. Now, if these nine Commissioners were to work with the Central Board, then the number of them was too large. An hon. Member, in the course of the evening, had said, that, in his opinion, there ought to be five Commissioners to form the Central Board, and in that opinion he was much inclined to concur, But, if the Assistant-Commissioners were to be ambulatory from parish to parish, and were to attend the different vestry meetings in the country, then that number was ridiculously small; for they could not perform the duties which they were called upon to perform in different and distant parts of the kingdom. He hoped, that the Committee, before they sanctioned this Bill, would look a little at its practical working. He supposed, that the Central Board would
 1292 1293
 Colonel Torrens  said, that the Central Board being responsible for the execution of the provisions of the Bill, it would be naturally anxious to appoint fit persons as Assistant-Commissioners; this did not apply to the case of the Magistrates, who would feel less anxiety on the subject of appointments that involved them in no responsibility. The Board must necessarily possess greater knowledge of the subject, and be more aware of the proper qualifications for Assistant-Commissioners, than the Magistrates possibly could be; and, on those grounds, he thought it right to oppose the Amendment.
 Mr. Wynn  could not conceive, that nine Assistant-Commissioners would be sufficient to exercise the proposed superintend-
 1296
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  thought that it had been justly objected, that if the Assistant-Commissioners should be appointed by the Magistrates, there would be room for local partiality, and individuals might be appointed who were imperfectly acquainted with the great principles and objects of the measure. One merit of a Central Board was, that it was free from local partiality and prejudice, and would act on general and uniform principles. It was right that the persons filling subordinate situations under the head Commissioners should be in the same situation. On these grounds he felt
 1297
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  agreed in what had been so repeatedly stated, that the object of the measure was to produce an uniform system; but it was admitted, that a number of different systems were at present in operation, and he thought that if on a certain day one uniform plan were attempted to be enforced everywhere, the measure must be inoperative, and the whole country would be thrown into commotion. He thought it necessary, in order to carry the Act into effect, that there should be some persons acquainted with the local circumstances of particular districts, who could give appropriate advice to the Commissioners on the subject. If every parish were to apply to the Central Board, there would be no end of the correspondence, and it would be impossible to expect a satisfactory result. It would be desirable to have local officers appointed who could give assistance, with a view to carry into effect the regulations of the Act. He was inclined to give the appointment of such officers to the Magistracy, thinking it would reconcile the overseers and vestrymen to the system, and believing that they would rather communicate with such officers than with strangers. In conclusion, he wished to observe, that he thought the auditing of accounts very inadequately provided for in this Act. It would be well to convince overseers that if money was improvidently expended they must be the sufferers, and he thought that local officers might be advantageously employed in auditing the accounts.
 Mr. Lloyd  was anxious that the noble Lord should clearly explain the nature of the powers that were proposed to be intrusted to those Assistant-Commissioners. According to the statement of the noble Lord, the Commissioners were to make general rules for the guidance of parishes, and those Assistant-Commissioners were to be sent throughout the country to see that those rules were acted upon in the different parishes, to Report what departures had been made from them, and where correction might be duly administered. If he was correct in the interpretation which he had put upon the powers which this Bill proposed to invest in the Assistant-Commissioners, it appeared to him that the number of them would be neither too few nor too many. If the noble Lord would say, that the interpretation which he (Mr. Lloyd) had put upon that part of the Bill was correct, it would tend to allay a growing indisposition in the north of England to this Bill.
 Colonel Evans  said, that it appeared to him that the powers to be vested in those Assistant-Commissioners were nearly essentially and virtually the same as the powers vested in the Commissioners themselves. These Assistant-Commissioners would be Justices of the Peace. Even practically speaking they would have greater powers than the Commissioners themselves, for it would be competent for them to be present at all vestries, and to take a part in all their proceedings. He thought that this was the most objectionable clause in the whole Bill. The power that was given to those Assistant-Commissioners to be present at, and to control, the proceedings of vestries, would justly excite the universal jealousy of the country. The Bill, it would be seen, enabled the Commissioners to delegate all their powers to those Assistant-Commissioners whom they should appoint. The number of Assistant-Commissioners whom the Board were to appoint was limited to nine; but the First Lord of the Treasury might appoint 19, or 199 Assistant-Commissioners if he thought fit. He thought that this clause was more objectionable than that which appointed the Commissioners.
 Colonel Wood  remarked, that when the hon. Member suggested, that the local Magistracy should have nothing to do with the execution of this Bill, he should also have proposed to relieve them of other duties that devolved upon them, so that when they saw the ricks around them on fire, and a rural mob goaded on to violence, the local Magistrates should not be called in to put such proceedings down. No body of men had performed more important services to the country than the local Magistracy; and he firmly believed, that such a class of persons were not to be found in any other nation in the world. He was ready to fall in with the suggestions of the hon. member for Berkshire. He would withdraw his Amendment on the clause for the present, intending to propose it, or something like it, as an addition to the Bill. He thought, that the Magistracy might be connected with the Central Board in this way—that they might at quarter Sessions elect three visitors, the names to be sent up to the Central Board, to choose one out of them; or that, having elected one visitor, the name should be transmitted to the Central Board, and that if it did not approve of the choice, the Magistrates should proceed to the election of another. That would make a connecting link between the Central Board and the Magistracy in the different districts
 1302
 Colonel Wood  said, it was not usual to exercise such a power.
 Colonel Davies  rose to order. He put it to the hon. Member whether he was in order in staying the business of the Committee by entering into a discussion as to the general principle of the Bill?
 Lord Granville Somerset  said, the House had determined by their preceding votes, that the leading principle of the Bill should be considered in Committee; and, therefore, he did not think it expedient, to attack it by this sort of side wind. He did not think, that the censures of the hon. member for Liverpool upon the hon. member for Marylebone were deserved. If there could be any question upon which a disquisition upon the authority of certain parties could be relevant, it was this. He considered, that it would be extending a boon to the Magistracy of the country to relieve them from the several duties they were at present called upon to perform; but it was never contemplated that they should be relieved from the performance of those duties, by the appointment of a Central Commission in the metropolis, under this Bill.
 Lord Granville Somerset  was of opinion, that, if the Assistant-Commissioners were to attend local vestries and see the regulations of the Central Board carried into effect, it would be impossible for so small a number as nine individuals to perform those duties; but if, on the contrary, they were merely to be considered as officers acting under the Central Board, and occasionally inquiring into alleged malversations of the local authorities, in his mind nine Assistant-Commissioners were far beyond the number required by the necessity of the case; and he should say, that five would be amply sufficient.
 1295
 Mr. Hawes  said, that at all events nothing connected with the administration of the Poor-laws should be left in the hands of the local magistracy, for if one fact more than another had been established by the Poor-law Report, it was, that the interference of the local magistracy in the administration of the Poor-laws had been productive of the most injurious consequences. If the rates had been diminished in amount, and if the condition of the people throughout the country had been elevated, then, indeed, it would be a different question; but it was a well-established fact, that the Poor-rates had been enormously increased, and that the moral and social condition of the people had been greatly lowered. With regard to what had fallen from the hon. member for Kent, he would say that we should be more liable to difficulties and to violence without this Bill than with it.
 Mr. Hawes  opposed the Amendment, and complained of the hon. member for Marylebone for having quoted the, evidence unfairly. If the hon. Member had not stopped short at a semi-colon, the passage would have borne a different interpretation.
 Mr. Tower  addressed the Committee amidst much interruption. He was understood to approve of the principle of the Amendment moved by the hon. member for Kent. He thought, that in all cases where the rates did not exceed a certain amount upon the rack-rent, the commissioners should not be authorized to interfere. He referred to the case of Staunton Rivers in his own neighbourhood, where several parishes had been incorporated for the purpose of having a common workhouse, and great inconvenience had been sustained in consequence of the incorporation.
 Mr. Baines  said, that in the parish to which he had alluded, the evil of roundsmen was entirely unknown.
 Mr. Baines  said, that there were many parishes in which this medicine could not be applied. In a parish with which he was well acquainted—a parish which was one of the largest in the country, and in which the Poor-laws had been best administered—the parishioners had sent him a petition, in which they stated, that they must necessarily understand the administration of the Poor-laws in their own parish better than the Central Board of Commissioners. They therefore deemed
 1290 s
 Mr. Grote  observed, that the clause did not prevent the appointment of a greater number of Assistant-Commissioners than nine, if the Treasury should think fit to increase the number, so that there could be an extension of that part of the machinery of the measure, if necessary. He thought, however, that the Assistant-Commissioners to be appointed would be able to do a great deal, considering that in a number of parishes there need be no interference. He would only add, that he should have no confidence in the efficiency of the Assistant-Commissioners unless they were appointed by the Central Board.
 Mr. George Frederick Young  thought the principle of the proviso a good one, though it was carried too far. He knew instances of two parishes in Northumberland, in which the rates had been reduced in the last year, in the one from 5 s s s d s
 Mr. Aglionby  objected to the appointment of Assistant-Commissioners or visitors by Magistrates at Quarter Sessions. He thought it desirable that they should be appointed by the Central Board, and that they should be directly under the control of that body, with a view to produce unity of purpose.
 Mr. Robert Palmer  would suggest, that the machinery for carrying the measure into effect should be rendered more efficient. He did not see how three Commissioners, acting as a Central Board, with nine Assistant-Commissioners, could carry the regulations arising out of this Bill into effect throughout all parts of the country. It was desirable, that there should be some local authority to superintend the execution of the Act in the various districts of the country. He did hot think, that it would be a good thing that the poor, who at present looked up to the local Magistracy for protection and relief, should be as it were deserted by them, and thrown upon some distant Board of which they knew nothing. It appeared to him that, by connecting the local Magistracy in some degree with the superintendence of the execution of the act, much benefit would accrue. He would suggest to his hon. friend that it would be more
 1301
 Mr. Slaney  said, that it was admitted on all hands that the manner in which the Poor-laws had been administered in various parts of England had been most injurious, especially to the humbler classes themselves. Their administration was different in different parishes, in different counties, in different hundreds in the same county. It was absolutely necessary, under such circumstances, to endeavour to introduce an uniformity of practice in the administration of the Poor-laws. That uniformity of practice could alone be obtained in the manner proposed by the present Bill. The Government proposed for the purpose the appointment of a Central Board, to lay down rules to show how Acts of Parliament should be carried into effect—not to originate, but to follow up, and enforce the execution of, the Acts of the Legislature. In order to enable those Commissioners to see that the rules laid down by them were carried into effect, it was necessary that they should appoint Assistant-Commissioners. The discretionary power which was vested in the Central Board was one for the exercise of which that Board would be responsible to the Government and to that House.
 Mr. Hodges  said, that the machinery of this Act was obviously insufficient to carry it into execution. It required not the spirit of prophecy to be enabled to foretel that the rules laid down by the Central Board could not be brought into operation by any machinery provided by this Bill; that many parishes would, under
 1300
 Mr. Hodges  moved a proviso, to the effect, that nothing contained in the Bill should be construed to authorize or empower the Commissioners to interfere in the affairs of any parish in which the Poor-rates had been reduced within the last two years.
 Mr. Hodges  said, that his reason for proposing this Amendment was founded upon his conviction, that if this Bill should be made a law, and the Government should proceed to put it in force, they would paralyze the laudable endeavours which were now making in different parts of the country to restore a right administration of the Poor-laws, and that thus there would be thrown upon the Government an immense amount of labour. He would withdraw his Amendment for the present, and would endeavour to put it in a shape that would better deserve the attention of the Committee.
 Mr. Hodges  said, he was, perhaps, a little irregular, but he felt that the interests of thousands of hard-working and deserving individuals were at stake, and he felt it his duty to point out the injury they were likely to sustain under the operation of this Bill. He hoped the noble Lord who introduced the Bill would give this part of the subject his most serious consideration. Great efforts were making in many parishes in the country to ameliorate the condition of the poor; and he thought it would be unfair and unwise to interfere with those parishes by this Bill. He would not detain the Committee further at present, as another opportunity of delivering his sentiments would present itself.
 Mr. Frankland Lewis  thought that the Assistant-Commissioners should have sufficient power delegated to them to act promptly in special cases. He mentioned an instance in the north of England, where the Magistrates of one district had decided that a class of persons should have relief, and the Magistrates of another district had decided the contrary way. In such cases the Assistant Commissioners ought to have a power to interfere. With respect to the details of the measure, he thought that legislation  de minimis 1304
 Mr. Dugdale  concurred with the petitioners in attributing their distress to the free-trade system. From the time that the system came into operation, the riband trade had been becoming gradually worse and worse; and it was now almost annihilated, particularly with regard to the higher class of ribands. The fact was, that the large houses, which used to consume 7,000 l l l l 1276
 Mr. Ewart  had listened, with some surprise, to what had fallen from the hon. member for Marylebone, nor could he see that those disquisitions into which he had entered respecting "power," were exactly called for. Indeed, he thought, that in entering upon the matter of the authority vested in the Magistrates, the hon. Member had thrown away a great deal of eloquence. It was sufficiently evident from the report, that the Magistrates had not wisely exercised the powers which were vested in them; therefore it was for the interest of the public that these powers should be
 1283
 Sir Charles Burrell  defended the Magistracy. The system in the south of England might not be so good as in the north. It was the opinion of the farmers in the south of England that if wages got up, there would be no getting them down. But the Magistracy were not consulted, and they had no power to regulate the price of wheat. He took upon himself to say, that the Magistrates had been hardly dealt with. If they had erred, they had erred on the side of the poor, and their error arose from other circumstances.
 Mr. Henry Lytton Bulwer  could also speak from his own knowledge as to the distress which prevailed in that district. The petitioners, as well as those to whom the hon. Baronet had referred, were anxious that Government should return to the prohibitory system. He was, however, sensible of the improvement which had resulted from free trade; but the system the hon. Baronet had mentioned, and that of free trade, were two very different things, and he concurred with the petitioners in thinking their interests had been sacrificed without attaining the benefits of a proper system of commerce. He wished to call the right hon. Gentleman's attention to the French tariff, for—although two gentlemen had been sent over to France to negociate with the Government of that country, and had been very industrious in collecting information—what was the state of things at the present moment? With respect to English iron and English cutlery, heavier duties were paid upon them than upon the products of other countries; and it was not for the sake of the riband manufacturers, or for the sake of the iron and coal mines, more than for the interest and success of the reciprocity system itself, that our Government should adopt some measures to induce the French government to come fairly into the system. At present, they said,—"We have every thing we want; our silks are admitted at a trifling duty; our ribands are admitted at so low a duty as to drive the English manufacturer from the market; and why should we alter our system?" "But," the right hon. Gentleman said, "it does not signify whether the French come into the system or not—we are equally benefited by it." If that were so, he should very much object to pay for the evidence which had been laid upon the Table of that House by Dr. Bowring and his colleague; for if the country derived the same advantages from the system, whether the French adopted it or not, it was rather hard that
 1275
 Sir Henry Willoughby  contended, that, under the 13th Clause, the Commissioners must exercise their powers in every parish in the country. He thought that the hon. member for Kent had taken an inconvenient period to raise the important point which he had just brought forward; but it was an important point, and if the hon. Member did not. resume it, he would do so before the Bill got out of Committee.
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  rose and said, that he would not delay the House one minute; but it was impossible to refrain from offering one observation. The hon. member for Marylebone supposed, that this measure was intended to degrade the Magistracy of this country. Now, as one of that body, he must observe, that he was perfectly certain, from his own knowledge of the noble Lord, and of his Majesty's Government, that they were the last persons to attempt to degrade the Magistracy of the country. And, so far from thinking that he or other Magistrates were degraded from having their duties lessened, he felt obliged to his Majesty's Government for relieving them from the discharge of a painful duty. If the hon. member for Marylebone supposed, that the Magistrates were ambitious of having their duties increased, he (Sir Eardley Wilmot) must say, that the hon. Member formed a very erroneous estimate of their character.
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  presented a Petition from Bedworth, and other places, complaining of the distressed state of persons employed in the riband trade. He lived very near these parishes, and could speak from his own observation of the distress which existed. He had visited hundreds, nay, thousands, of these weavers, and might venture to say, there was no part of his Majesty's dominions where so much abject misery prevailed. It was not for him to say what measures his Majesty's Government should adopt to remove the evil. The petitioners attributed their distress to the free-trade system. In the abstract, he was a friend to free trade, for when all manufactures were put on an equal footing in all countries, free trade must be beneficial; but that system of reciprocity had not been followed up. He had taken the trouble to extract the amount of the manufactured articles imported from France since the removal of the prohibition, and an increase had taken place every year. The amount in francs, for plain goods, in 1825, was 4,884,000; in 1831, 12,992,200:—figured silks, 1825, 71,500 francs; 1831, 511,940:—crapes, 1825, 43,560 francs; 1831, 227,656 francs:—ribands, 1825, 437,400 francs; 1831, 1,949,760 francs. In 1831, therefore, the quantity imported was four times as great as in any previous year. Although these towns were ruined, and 30,000 or 40,000 persons were starving, yet, throughout the country generally, trade was flourishing, and great benefit had resulted from the free-trade system. The country ought, then, to relieve those who had been sacrificed to the prosperity of others. It must be recollected that, in the manufacture of English goods, the labour was of greater value than the material, while, in France, the value of labour, as well as of the material, was much less; owing, therefore, to the pres-
 1274
 Sir Samuel Whalley  objected to this clause, and proposed to move a clause in lieu of it. With the permission of the Committee, he begged to remind it, that, on a former occasion, it had been decided that there should be a Board of Commissioners. It did not, therefore, rest with him to dispute the decision of the Committee, to which, indeed, he was bound to bow. He, however, called upon the Committee to modify this Board, and to make it as little objectionable as possible. The Legislature had always endeavoured to grant such institutions as should be consistent with the general feeling of the Committee. It was important, in making changes of this nature, that they should adapt them to the habits and manners of the people. The wiser plan would be, not to change altogether, but to engraft improvement upon that which already existed. All who read the history of a free people must be aware of the dangers attendant on great and radical changes. In any alterations about to be made, the safer way was, to inquire whether the existing machinery was improveable, and if so, seek from that what assistance it might be calculated to afford, and not throw away what might be available for useful purposes. During the discussions on the Slave. Emancipation Bill, it was argued that it was absurd to imagine any benefit could result from that measure, unless that measure should meet with the co-operation of the local authorities and assemblies in the colonies. Arguing on the same principle, he maintained that, without the co-operation of the parochial authorities, no benefit could be anticipated from the intended change in the system of our Poor-laws. But he would ask the House how they could expect co-operation from the existing local authorities, when every day, and every hour, only convinced the House that all the local authorities were against the proposed measure? [" No, no 1277 No, no 1278 No, no 1279 bureaux de bienfaisance bureaux de bienfaisance 1280 "And be it enacted, that it shall and may be lawful for the said Commissioners, and they are hereby required to prepare for the consideration of Parliament a Bill or Bills for consolidating all existing Statutes relating to the relief of the poor, comprising such alterations in the present laws, and such additional laws and regulations as they may think expedient." "And the said Commissioners shall and may, from time to time, prepare such further Bill or Bills as they deem necessary. And the said Commissioners shall and may frame a form or forms of accounts to be observed by all parishes in England
 1281 "And it shall and may be lawful for the said Commissioners, and they are hereby required, to ascertain what parishes it may be expedient to unite for the purpose of having one or more workhouses for their common use, and, for that and other purposes, to prepare such Bill or Bills as may be necessary. And the said Commissioners shall have the power of examining the accounts of all parishes, and of ascertaining that the returns made to their office are correct, and of offering such written suggestions and advice to boards of guardians and to vestries as they may think proper. And it shall be lawful for the said Commissioners to visit all workhouses at such times as they may think fit; and they are hereby authorised and required to enforce the observance in all parishes in England and Wales of such rules and regulations respecting the relief of the poor, the appointment of overseers, the keeping of accounts, the management of workhouses, and the education and apprenticeship of children, as are or may hereafter be made by the authority of Parliament. And if any person shall withhold or suppress any parish books or accounts, or obstruct the said Commissioners in the inspection thereof, or neglect or refuse to make such annual returns within six weeks after the time appointed by the said Commissioners, or refuse to permit the said Commissioners to visit any workhouse or workhouses, or any part thereof, or neglect or refuse to observe and comply with such rules and regulations as aforesaid, such person shall, upon conviction before any two Justices, forfeit and pay—for the first offence, any sum not exceeding 5 l 1282 l l
 Sir Samuel Whalley  would, with the permission of the Committee, withdraw his Amendment.
 Mr. Clay  asked how it could be expected that 16,000 little Bills could be introduced, one for each parish, in the manner described by the hon. member for Marylebone? Were they to be imperative or discretionary? Me felt bound to oppose the Amendment.
 Mr. Clay  said, that, generally speaking, the power exercised by the Magistrates at petty Sessions, in reference to the accounts of the overseers, was purely Ministerial, though there was no doubt that they had the power if they chose, to disallow the rate. He hoped to God, that the noble Lord would not listen to the suggestions of those who wanted to have the appointment of the Assistant-Commissioners transferred from the Central Board to the local Magistracy. If they should be transferred to the Magistracy, they would be made snug things, and gentlemen would be found going about the country a fortnight or three weeks before the appointments took place canvassing the Magistrates for them. The appointments should be left in the hands of the Central Board, so as to leave entire complete responsibility upon them. The
 1303
 Lord Althorp  maintained, that the Magistrates had the power at petty Sessions of striking out or disallowing items in the overseers' accounts.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the gallant Officer was mistaken in supposing that any power was given by the Bill to the Assistant-Commissioners to control the proceedings of vestries. They were not empowered to vote at vestries, they were only empowered to attend at them, and to offer such suggestions as they might think it well for parishes to adopt. The Central Board would have the power of making suggestions to parishes as to regulations which it would be desirable to adopt. The hon. member for Stockport was perfectly correct in the manner in which he had explained the powers to be vested in the Assistant-Commissioners. The Assistant-Commissioners would be invested with powers to see that parishes and parish officers did not wilfully contravene the provisions of the Act, and did not neglect to carry into effect the instructions of the Central Board.
 Lord Althorp  remarked, that if the Assistant-Commissioners were appointed otherwise than the Act proposed, and with the view to local interests, a greater number would be required than the clause specified. He objected to the proposed change on that ground, and because he thought it desirable that the number of Assistant-Commissioners should not be greater in the first instance than was absolutely necessary. He thought it would be even better to set out with a less number at the commencement of the measure than might be ultimately necessary. The number could be increased hereafter, if it should be thought necessary. He was of opinion that the appointment of the Assistant-Commissioners should be in the
 1298
 Lord Althorp  thought the hon. Member had not exactly spoken to the subject before the House. It appeared to him, that the object which the hon. Gentleman had in view, was, that the Commissioners should not have the power to make rules and regulations, but, that in each and every case, an Act of Parliament should be required. This, as he apprehended the object, was, that a separate Act of Parliament should be passed for every separate union of parishes, which should be effected, and a separate Act for other purposes applicable to parts, and not to the whole, of the country. Now, this would involve the Parliament in interminable legislation. The hon. Gentleman appeared to have misunderstood what he (Lord Althorp) had, on a former occasion, stated with respect, to the committal of parties for contempt. He had stated, that the power of committal should be taken away, and that the party guilty of contempt should be punished by two Magistrates under the 86th clause. The objections which he felt to the clause proposed by the hon. Gentleman, were—first, that the House had, on a former occasion, decided that a Central Board should be established; and that almost the only duty which they would have to perform (which might be done without their aid) would be the consolidation of the laws affecting the regulation of the poor. This was all that was required of the Commissioners under this clause. But it appeared to him, that some discretionary power should exist; and he thought, that the danger of confusion in the country would be increased very much, if there were not a discretionary power vested somewhere. Then, as to what the hon. Gentleman had said with respect to the Magistrates (though he
 1284
 Lord Althorp  observed, that, the hon. member for Brecknock seemed to think it the duty of the Assistant-Commissioners
 1294
 Lord Althorp  would object to the proviso, on the ground that the reduction of the rates in a parish might have taken place from many causes rather than an improvement in the management of the poor; for instance, such reduction might have occurred from better employment,
 1288
 Lord Althorp  begged to acquaint the hon. Member, that the petition to which he referred had been presented by his hon. colleague that afternoon.
 Lord Althorp  was well aware, that everything which fell from the hon. member for Kent on the subject of the administration of the Poor-laws was deserving of the most serious consideration; but he had already stated the grounds on which he did not think it advisable to accede to his suggestion. He was sorry, that so much interruption should have been given to the hon. Member who had spoken last but one; but the fact was, that the hon. Member did not speak upon the clause under the consideration of the Committee, but upon the clause for the better regulation of workhouses, to which they had not yet arrived.
 The Solicitor General  said, the 39th and 40th George 3rd, was precise on the subject of the present as well as all similar applications; and any hon. Member who would look at that Act would perceive that the bargain with the Bank was not affected by the subsequent Acts on the Subject. By this Act, a contract had been entered into with the Bank of England, of which this was the condition, "that no other bank should be erected, established, or allowed by Parliament; and that it should not be lawful for any body politic or corporate whatsover, erected or to be erected, or for any other persons, united or to be united, in covenants, or partnership, exceeding the number of six persons, in that part of Great Britain, called England, to borrow, owe, or take up any sum or sums of money on their bills or notes payable on demand, or at any less time than six months from the borrowing thereof, during the continuance of the said privilege to the said Governor and Company; who were thereby declared to be and remain a corporation, with the privilege of exclusive banking, as before recited, but subject, nevertheless, to redemption on the terms and conditions in the said Act specified." Those privileges existed still; that clause was unaltered by any subsequent Act; and Parliament was bound to abide by the contract involved in their continuance. The object of the Bill before the House was to
 1309 Clay: 1310
 Mr. O'Connell  said, it would not be upholding a contract to vote against this Bill, but it would be making a contract. The hon. and learned Gentleman said, that by the terms of the 39th and 40th of George 3rd, a bargain had been made with the Bank of England, that no other bank should be established in London. No such bargain was to be found in the 39th and 40th of George 3rd, and so thought the Attorney and Solicitor-Generals last year,
 1311 l l l 1312
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  said, that although he was much interested in the success of the Bill before the House, he yet would not vote for it if he thought that, by doing so, he violated any contract which had been made with the Bank of England. It appeared to him, that the House was losing sight of the real question before it—namely, that the right of suing and being sued should be given to the London and Westminster Bank. Was this creating a monopoly to give this power? Why it was given to every other banking-
 1317
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  agreed with the hon. member for the Tower Hamlets, that the question had been fully argued; but he would just remind the House of the situation in which they were placed. They were told by the noble Lord, that this Bill was an infraction of the terms of an Act of Parliament passed last Session. Were they, then, to pass this Bill in opposition to such a declaration? Would it not be the same as if they violated the principle upon which the noble Lord contracted a loan by the consent of that House? The Bank of England paid 120,000 l Question?
 Colonel Torrens  rose to bring forward an Amendment to that clause of which he had given notice. He considered that the principle on which his Majesty's Government and that House would be disposed to legislate on the subject at present under discussion was, that the local authorities of the country should have their powers as little infringed upon as possible. The noble Lord admitted that, and had declared, that he was not disposed to give one iota more of power to the Commissioners than was necessary to carry into effect the provisions of the Bill. He would show, that the Commissioners ought not to have the power to frame rules and regulations without the consent of the parochial authorities, or of the rate-payers of the parish; and he was sure, that the Amendment he was about to propose would tend to increase rather than to diminish the efficacy of the Central Board. There was nothing in the Bill to carry it
 1339 1340
 The Chairman : The Committee has not come to the part of the clause when the amendment or amendments of the hon. and gallant Member can be submitted to the Committee.
 Colonel Evans  complained of the manner in which the noble Lord was conducting this Bill. It was impossible to learn what the noble Lord meant to do with any clause. This Bill repealed 200 Acts
 1342
 Mr. Bonham Carter  said, there were provisions in this Act which enabled the Commissioners to deal with certain laws—local Acts, for instance; but the question was, whether the Commissioners were to have the power of abrogating the acts of the Legislature. It appeared to him, that the Commissioners were not authorised to exercise any such power, but that there were parts of the Bill by which they might deal with private Acts.
 The Solicitor General  said, it was complained, that no sufficient remedy was afforded for any violation of the law under this Act; but it appeared to him, that the Bill itself provided every possible precaution against violations of the law, especially when it was considered that all rules must be submitted to the Secretary of State, and afterwards to Parliament. With reference to what had fallen from the hon. and learned member for Norwich, he maintained, that the object of the present clause was to give the Commissioners power to make rules for the relief of the poor, and the power which they were to exercise was particularly specified. Where existing Acts were to be interfered with, a specific power was given for that purpose; and therefore the present clause did not convey a general power. Much of the evil that existed in the administration of the Poor-laws, consisted in discretionary departures from the provisions of the law. The object of this measure was, to remedy the evils, and substitute one general authority for all the existing local authorities.
 Mr. Halcombe  contended, that Gentlemen had not defined what they meant by legislative powers, or precisely limited the authority of the Commissioners. They only declared, that the Board should not abrogate or change existing laws; but he submitted, that it was not precluded from making new laws relative to the education of the children of the poor, in reference to emigration, or upon any subject which did not come within the range of existing Statutes. This being the case, the Commissioners would have the power of framing such laws as were not in contravention of existing Acts, but which new regulations or laws would, nevertheless, be binding on the poor, though not made by Parliament.
 Colonel Torrens  said, that the noble Lord had declared that the adoption of this amendment would destroy the operation of the Bill; but, if fairly viewed, it would be seen, that it would have no such effect. The noble Lord admitted, that pa-
 1347
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  said, that if it could be thought that any rule would be made by the Commissioners which would call fur a writ of  certiorari certiorari
 Mr. Charles Buller  expressed a hope, that the noble Lord would assure the Committee, that the Commissioners should not be hampered in dealing generally with this subject by the regulations or acts prevailing in certain local districts. Did the hon. and learned member for Norwich mean to say, that this clause gave the Commissioners the power of dispensing with the laws? Any lawyer who said so might understand the law, but certainly could not understand the English language. The words of the clause only gave the Commissioners the power of administering the existing laws of England.
 Mr. Cumming Bruce  thought it very improper to proceed with such an important measure at that late hour, and he should move, as an amendment, that the House do now adjourn.
 Mr. Robinson  expressed his concurrence generally in the sentiments of the hon. member for Stroud, and advised him to bring up the clauses of which he had spoken on the third reading of the bill, in order that an opportunity for an ample discussion of them might be afforded.
 Mr. Hardy  seconded the Motion. After the division which had taken place on the principle of this Bill at the second reading, he was surprised that any opposition should be offered to its third reading. The 3rd and 4th of William 4th, explained the principle on which joint-stock-banks were founded. It declared them legal; and yet, when an application was made for the good of the public, it was to be met with opposition, though justice and law was in its favour. Within the last twenty-five years, no less than forty-six different companies had applied for and obtained the privilege which the London and Westminster Bank now sought, that of suing and being sued for the special convenience of
 1308
 Mr. Hardy  supported the Amendment, and declared that, consistently with the duty which he owed to his God, he never would consent to advance those to places of dignity and honour who maintained, that the religion he professed was an imposture.
 Mr. Herries  expressed his regret, that he had not been in the House upon the second reading of this Bill. Had he been present, he should have done that which he now intended to do, give it his most strenuous opposition. It was rather curious that when the clause in the last Act, which had given rise to the present discussion, was brought before the House, he expressed his doubts with respect to the construction that might he put upon it, but, in consequence of the answers which he received upon that occasion, he was induced to give up his opposition to the clause; and when he stated what took place upon that occasion, he was sure, that this House and the country would feel that they were pledged to the Bank in such a manner in respect to the establishment of another bank, that it would be impossible, with any regard to justice and fair dealing, to get away from it. The state of the case was this—when the Bill for renewing the Bank Charter was before the House in its last stage, a clause was introduced which gave rise to certain doubts in respect to the operation of the law relative to the establishing of banks in the city of London. For his own part he had always been of opinion, that the law enabled joint-stock banks of deposit to be established, provided they did not issue their own notes, but that Parliament could not create or allow any other corporate banking company to exist but the Bank of England. Doubts, however, existed upon this point; and it was to do away with these doubts that the noble Lord had introduced the clause to which he had before referred. When this clause was introduced, he put it distinctly to the noble Lord (Lord Althorp), whether this clause would give the power to joint-stock banking companies within sixty-five miles of London, of suing and being sued. The answers of the noble Lord, as well as those given to him, both privately and
 1313 1314
 Mr. Patrick Stewart  had expected to find his right hon. friend, the member for Harwich, a friend to the establishment whose cause be (Mr. Stewart) had espoused; for it was that right hon. Gentleman who, in the discussion upon the second reading of the Bank Charter Renewal Bill, expressed his fears, that the monopoly was too extensive, and who contended, that banks ought to be allowed to be established in London, if they were not banks of issue. The right hon. Gentleman, after stating his opinion, that the sixty-five miles ought to be materially abridged, proceeded to express an opinion, that it was then legal to have banks with more than six partners, and to express a hope, that the law would be rendered explicit and clear on the subject. This was the opinion expressed by the right hon. Gentleman on the second reading of the Bank Charter Bill, under which the present company of the London and Westminster Bank were lured on to establish their bank; and now the right hon. Gentleman said, that they were not justified in coming to that House to seek for a privilege, which, in justice to the public, they ought to possess. But there was nothing in the Bill at all inconsistent with the bargain then made with the Bank. The dilemma in which the Government was now placed, was a collision between a private understanding and an Act of Parliament. But the House, he trusted, would be governed by the Act, and would not allow the Bank of England to possess for ever its exclusive privileges, and be the only corporation. The Government was bound in good faith to have stated, that they did not mean the privilege guaranteed by the Act of last Session ever to be used. There was nothing in the Bill to say, that it should not be used, and if it was intended not to be used, why was not the intention expressed? The Bank of England knew very well how to secure itself, as indeed appeared in this very Act. It had, in fact, stolen a march upon Government, and had obtained the insertion of a clause in the last Act, by which it sought to perpetuate the corporate Charter of the Bank even when its banking privi-
 1315
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  said, it was far from his intention to do anything not conformable to the regulations of the House, and he would therefore endeavour to effect his object by proposing specific clauses on the subject in Committee, or on the third reading of the Bill.
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  rose to move an instruction to the Committee; and, as he had not yet had an opportunity of speaking on the general principles of the Bill, he trusted the House would excuse him for saying a few words. No man was
 1321 1322 1323 1324 s d s 1325 1326 s d 1327 1328 d 1329 1330 1331 1332 1333 1334
 Mr. Godson  must protest against the power given to the Commissioners by this clause as perfectly monstrous. It gave them the power of making and unmaking laws at their pleasure. He thought that the powers given to the Commissioners would be much limited by letting the clause run, "the administration of the laws for the relief of the poor," instead of "administration of relief to the poor."
 Mr. Godson  observed, that the Bill contained no provision empowering parties to appeal to the Privy Council.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  did not concur with the noble Lord, that the Poor-laws were an evil, as the noble Lord had described them. He agreed with the hon. member for Oldham, that the laws of nature and the laws of England were identical, and that every man had a right to live by the fruits of his honest labour. The
 1338 s d s
 Mr. Cobbett  observed, with no surprise, that the hon. Baronet had proposed to maintain the poor out of the Consolidated Fund. He had always thought it would come to this. One step further the hon. Baronet might go, and one only, and that was, to charge the Government with the keeping of all the people. When the hon. Baronet talked of local taxation, he seemed to think, that the farmer paid the rates out of his own pocket, out of some store; but it was no such thing. He paid the rates out of the price of his wheat and corn that he carried to market. The farmer paid no more of the rates than other people, and he would be no more relieved than other people by the system that the hon. Baronet recommended. The Poor-rates were already diffused all over the country, and the farmer's rates were paid by those who consumed the produce of his farm. In many respects the present Bill could not be carried into effect, and therefore, in passing it, the House would in fact be passing no law at all. If the Bill could reduce the amount of rates, that, at least, must be a work of
 1336 1337
 Mr. Cobbett  rose amidst cries of "Question:" Hon. Members might cry "Oh!" but still he would state to the House what were his opinions upon this subject. He was firmly convinced, that of all the scourges God had ever inflicted upon man, the banking system was the greatest of all. In the hope, that the proposed bank
 1320
 The Speaker  intimated to the hon. Member, that it was usual to move an instruction only in cases where it was desired to enable the Committee to do something which it could not do without such instruction. In the present instance, it was clearly within the power of the Committee to carry into effect the objects of the proposed instruction; and the hon. Member, therefore, need not move it unless he meant to imply a doubt as to the Committee properly discharging its duty.
 Mr. Pollock  said, that the persons who supported the Bill now before the House, had no right to complain of injustice. This Bill was one of a most important nature—one which, in fact, involved in it both the national faith and national honour. It was not a matter-of-course Bill, as the hon. Member who had just sat down called it; it was one which demanded the most important consideration. Could it be supposed that this Bill could pass in defiance of the unanswerable arguments of his right hon. friend—in defiance of a compact made by this House? It appeared to him that the question before the House was, in point of fact, whether by granting the privilege of suing and being sued, there should be a breach of the contract which had been entered into between the Government and the Bank, and which had been sanctioned by Parliament. Those who thought that the Bill was a breach of contract would vote against it, and, on the contrary, those who thought that such a Bill might be
 1316
 Sir James Scarlett  contended, that the Act of William 3rd, first establishing the Bank of England, was still in force, and that that Act expressly enacted, that, as long as the corporation of the Bank existed, no other company in the nature of a bank should be established, sanctioned, or countenanced by Parliament. He thought the word "allow" called upon them to put down any bank, if established with more than six partners, in London. The clause in the last Bill gave no power to create a new Bank, and the Act of William was clear upon the point—so clear, that no legal quibble, however ingeniously put, could mystify it. If Parliament incorporated any banking establishment, it would violate the contract made with the Bank of England, of which the condition was, that no other bank but it, was to be allowed by Parliament. In opposing this Bill, he had no private or political end to serve. He was only anxious, that Parliament should not violate its own engagements.
 1318
 Sir James Scarlett  objected to the wording of the clause. It was so obscurely
 1341 certiorari certiorari
 Sir James Scarlett  objected to conferring upon the Commissioners such great powers as were contained in the provisions of the Bill, without the check which would be afforded by the continuance of the power to issue writs of  certiorari certiorari certiorari
 Sir James Scarlett  suggested, that words should be added to make the Commissioners act according to the existing laws.
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  thought the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House was mistaken in saying, that the plan was new. A report on the subject of the Poor-laws was presented many years ago to Parliament, on which Gilbert's bill (22nd George 3rd) was founded. With the exception of the establishment of the Central Board, the recommendations of that Report were precisely similar to the enactments of the present Bill, the only difference being that its application was voluntary instead of being compulsory. His object in rising, however, was to remind the noble Lord (Althorp) that he had stated that the Bill before the House would have the effect of giving relief to the agricultural interest. But he was sure that it would not give them what their depressed state required—immediate relief; for the clause with respect to the allowance system was not to come into operation until next year, and a considerable time must, of course, elapse before the new workhouses could be built. He thought, however, he could suggest a provision, to be incorporated
 1335
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  was anxious to put a question to the noble Lord (Lord Althorp). Of the three Bills which had been introduced with the view of relieving the agricultural interest of the country, the Tithe Commutation, County Rates, and Poor-law Amendment Bills, the last was the only one now in progress; and he (Sir Eardley Wilmot) very much feared it would not, if passed, be found so beneficial as the noble Lord seemed to imagine; at all events, it would not give immediate relief. In the present terrible state of agricultural depression something was requisite to be done; and, therefore, he was anxious to ascertain whether the noble Lord had in contemplation any other measure, in order, if possible, to afford immediate relief.
 Mr. Jervis  was surprised that the noble Lord, and the hon. and learned member for Malton, who disclaimed any intention of conferring on the Commissioners a power to abrogate existing laws or frame new ones, should hesitate about rendering the clause distinct and explicit on that subject. 1346
 Sir Samuel Whalley  objected to the power proposed to be given by it to the Commissioners, to expend a tenth of the parish funds whether the parishes liked
 1349 l
 Mr. Clay  said, he had no doubt that the declarations made by the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) would be satisfactory to the public—namely, that the Commissioners were not to possess a legislative power to abrogate any law which was not specifically repealed by the Act, and that the only power really transferred to them, was that now exercised by the local Magistracy. With respect to the Amendment, he would remind the Committee that they were legislating for overseers, and persons of not very cultivated minds, and therefore it would be well that the Act were made explicit and intelligible. He could see harm in the introduction of the word proposed. With respect to the power of appeal to the Privy Council, it was very well that such a power should exist; but it would be better to frame the law so that it would not be necessary to have recourse to it.
 Mr. Clay , thought, that the hon. Alderman (Mr. Alderman Thompson), who rose to speak, might be content with the support which he had received, for he had no less than three lawyers to speak in his favour, and one of them even appeared in his wig and gown (Sir James Scarlett), to give, if possible, additional weight to his argument. He contended, that the London and Westminster Bank was a corporate body, and that all which it wanted was, the privilege of doing that which every corporate body in London had, namely, the right of suing and being sued. The Goldsmiths' Company, or any other company in London, could commence the banking business to-morrow, and would be entitled to sue and be sued; and all that this company, which had been instituted for banking purposes, wanted was, that it should have a privilege which every corporate body in London had.
 Mr. Clay  rose to move the third reading of this Bill. He had hoped, from the decided manner in which the House had expressed its opinion on this Bill at the second reading and from the decided failure of counsel before the Committee to make out any case for the Bank of England, that no further opposition to this Bill would have been offered. But as he understood, that it was intended to divide the House upon this stage of the Bill, he hoped he should be excused whilst, in half a dozen sentences, he stated the circumstances under which the present application was made to the House. It would be recollected, that doubts having arisen during the discussion of the Bank Charter last Session as to the true nature of its privileges, to clear up those doubts, a clause was inserted in the Act renewing the Charter of the Bank of England, declaring that any body, corporation, company, or partnership, although of more
 1306 1307
 Sir William Horne  said, that it was the
 1343 1344
 Lord Althorp  observed, that the words of the clause stated, that the administration of the relief of the poor remaining in the hands in which it was placed at present should be subject to the control of the Commissioners. It was the principle of the Bill that the administration of the relief of the poor should be under the control of the Commissioners; but it was not the principle of the Bill that they should administer the law themselves. He did not mean that the clause should give them a legislative power further than the Bill specifically stated it to be given them. He should have no objection to the introduction of words to the effect suggested by the hon. and learned member for Norwich.
 Lord Althorp  observed, that one great object of the present Bill was, to introduce a new and altered mode of managing the poor in the various parishes throughout the country, but if the Amendment proposed by the hon. Gentleman—namely, that no alteration should be introduced, unless approved of by the different parishes where it was to take effect—should be adopted, the effect of it would be to leave them precisely in the state in which they were at present. The present mode of managing the poor was, it was obvious, adopted in all parishes according to the choice, the very ill-advised choice, he thought, in many instances, of such parishes. The result, therefore, of such art Amendment as the present was, that it would entirely abrogate the provisions of the present Bill, for if it were left to parishes to adopt it, they of course would adhere to their present, in many cases (such as in the south of England), most ill-advised system of managing the poor. The second portion of the hon. Member's Amendment enacted, that in case parishes did not adopt the rules, Bills for enforcing the same should be brought in by the Law Officers of the Crown. He knew of no similar provision ever before contained in an Act of Parliament, and, if it were to he introduced, the hon. Member ought to go further, and say, that Parliament should pass such Bills.
 Lord Althorp  was willing to remove that objection of the hon. Member which related to the amount of money to be levied in any particular parish, by limiting the amount to 50 l
 Lord Althorp  said, that the suggestion of the hon. and learned member for Norwich was of weight and deserving consideration, and he should wish it to be postponed. At the same time he thought the difficulties which had been suggested would be met by the insertion of a clause he proposed to move, that all rules, orders, and regulations issued and published by the Commissioners, should be presented by one of the Secretaries of State to both Houses of Parliament within one week from the commencement of each Session.
 Lord Althorp  was understood to concur with the hon. and learned Gentleman that
 1348 certiorari certiorari
 Lord Althorp  denied, that the poor had a right to seize upon the property of others to supply their wants. All the rights the poor now possessed were preserved to them by the present Bill, and the objections to the Bill on that ground were unfounded. The Bill did not, as had been erroneously represented, go to the extent of saying that no relief should be given out of the workhouse. The object of the Bill was to bring the law back to what it was originally, and what it ought to be; but it was by no means the wish of his Majesty's Government to have the Poor-laws done away with.
 Lord Althorp  said, that there was no intention of giving the Commissioners powers either to make new, or to alter the existing laws.
 Lord Althorp  observed, that the clause gave the Commissioners power to suspend, alter, or rescind rules, orders, and regulations, for the management of the poor, and for the administration of the laws for their relief; and, in another clause, it was provided, that by-laws made under any local Act were to be subject to the confirmation of the Board. Now, he intended to leave out the latter words, so that the powers of the Commissioners would be confined to making or altering rules for the management and relief of the poor, and not extend to "any local Act," as specified in the sixteenth clause.
 Lord Althorp  was anxious to state to the House what was the understanding between the Government and the Bank of England, in respect to the establishment of any other Bank in the metropolis. It was understood, that no additional privileges beyond that which the law allowed, should be given to any other bank. That was the understanding with the Bank, and that understanding was stated in that House, when the subject was under discussion. The hon. member for the Tower Hamlets taunted him with making exertions to oppose this Bill. He owned, that he had. He felt, that he was bound to maintain the bargain which he had entered into with the Bank. He felt, that he was justified in making every exertion to oppose this Bill; and if he did not, and if the Parliament did not reject it, he thought neither he nor the Parliament would do what was proper. It did appear to him, that if the bargain which he had made with the Bank of England were broken, the national faith would be violated; and, he contended that the terms of that bargain were advantageous to the country. If the House agreed to the third reading of the Bill, they would give to the London and Westminster Bank exclusive privileges which he thought it ought not to possess. He hoped, therefore, that the House would not pass the Bill, for their doing so would form a dangerous precedent hereafter.
 1319
 Lord Althorp  said, that the better administration of the Poor-laws, wherever it had been introduced, had given immediate relief to the agricultural population; and, therefore, he certainly anticipated considerable advantage from the operation of the measure now under the consideration of the House. With respect to other measures of relief, he was not prepared to say, that anything further would be introduced by Ministers this Session; and one reason was, the great difficulty found in propounding any measure which would give immediate relief.
 Viscount Howick  said, that no such provision was necessary. As the King in Council was to give force to the rules and regulations of the Commissioners, it was
 1345
 Viscount Howick  said, that there was a very simple mode of proceeding if any rule made by the Commissioners were considered of an improper nature, namely, a petition to the Privy Council. It was no new thing for the Privy Council to exercise a judicial control over rules and regulations of a similar nature. When it was considered, that the power of the Commissioners would be subject also to the further control of Parliament, he thought there was a sufficient security for the propriety of their regulations.
 Lord Sandon  said, that though he objected to many of the powers proposed to be given to the Central Board, he could not assent to an Amendment that would strike radically at the whole principle of the Bill.
 Sir George Strickland  thought the observations which fell from the hon. member for Oldham were valuable, because they showed that he, who had always been a warm friend of the interests of the poor was ready to take every justifiable means to check the progress of this destructive vice amongst them. But the hon. member for Sheffield said—"Gentlemen object to this Motion on the ground that going into a Committee will do no good; but without, a previous inquiry, we shall be legislating in the dark." He differed from the hon. member for Oldham, in thinking the Committee might do good, by pointing out whether some regulation as to the sale of spirits and of beer might not be made, so as to prevent encouragement to the vice of drunkenness. He would merely mention one part. He had heard it said, that it afforded great encouragement to the use of spirits, to allow the same person to sell both spirits and beer; it would be a fit subject for inquiry before a Committee, whether the same person should be allowed to sell beer and spirits.
 Mr. Mark Philips  begged to say, that among the Dissenters in the town which he had the honour to represent, there was no such feeling as Mr. Tottie ascribed to them; and he did not believe, that religious persecution would result from removing the disabilities under which the Dissenters laboured. He saw no narrow policy among them, no selfish feeling which prevented one party from assisting the other but they had joined hand and heart in getting rid of their disabilities. He regretted exceedingly the observations which had just been made by the hon. Member, because he had great reason to hope from what he knew of the hon. Member, that his vote would have been given in favour of the Bill which was particularly referred to. It was his conviction, that the great
 1368
 Mr. Grote  rose to second the Motion of his hon. friend, and stated that he did so, fully concurring in all the opinions which his hon. friend had expressed. He felt, that the proposition was not only an act of justice, but that it was recommended by every consideration connected with the peace of Ireland, and connected with the peace of the Empire at large. It was a proposition, the adoption of which would be wise at all times, but would be especially wise at the present moment, when the question of tithes in Ireland had become one of so much importance, and when such extensive alterations were made and proposed in the law with respect to that subject. The eloquent speech of his hon. friend, and the manner in which he had touched upon all the subjects to which the Motion related, not only relieved him (Mr. Grote) from the necessity of entering at great length upon the question, but imposed upon him the duty of being as brief as possible. The adoption of the proposition would in no way assail the spiritual efficiency of the Church in Ireland; its only effect would be, to assail the immoderate endowments of that Church. As far as its spiritual efficiency went, it would be left as it was, but it would be stripped of those worldly riches which, while they added nothing to its weight and influence, were the cause of the distress and impoverishment of the whole of the Irish population. He could not concur with those who sought to identify the case of the two Churches of England and Ireland. Those who sought to do this would degrade the one Church, without elevating the other. The two Churches were not only not the same, but they were opposite in spirit and in principle. What was the great argument in support of the Church of England, and of that connexion with the State which gave it exclusively the temporalities which the State had to bestow? Was it not that it was the religion of the great majority of the people? Could the Established Church of Ireland be defended on the same principle? It was not necessary for him to remind the House, that when lands and other temporalities were set apart for religious worship, it was for the support of one form of worship, in which all were united in one common Church. Diversity of creeds was then unknown; at least those who might dissent were not acknowledged as a public body, and were obliged to keep their dissent carefully concealed. In the sixteenth century this unity of
 1398 s l i. e. l s 1399 1400
 Mr. Granville Vernon  presented a petition of graduates of the two Universities, in the county of Nottingham, in support of the Established Church, and against the admission of Dissenters to the Universities, and said—he begged to state, that, after much and anxious consideration, he felt it his duty to concur in the prayer of these petitions. He did so reluctantly, because, in the first place, he had hitherto, on every occasion, in the House and out of the House, as far as lay in his power, advocated the cause of the Dissenters. He did so as long as he thought their claims reasonable in themselves, and not injurious either to the interests of the Church of England (of which he was a conscientious Member), or to the vital interests of Christianity. He did so also, because he could bear his willing testimony to the valuable exertions of the Dissenters in this country to promote the cause of morality and religion. There were many districts, he was sorry to say, in this country, in which the efforts of the Church itself would have been wholly inadequate to stem the tide of infidelity, from the absence of either moral or religious instruction, unless they had been aided by the exertions of the Dissenters. He felt, therefore, great reluctance in arriving at the conclusion, that this claim of the Dissenters was not founded in justice. His general sentiment upon this subject was, that the more comprehension could be imparted to the institutions of the Church, the more people would be brought within the pale of her essential doctrines. There was not, in truth, any very great difference—no wide line of demarcation between the Church, and many of the most—I may say the most—respectable class of Dissenters. They were rather divided on minute questions of feeling and matters, of taste, than upon any essential doctrines of religion. He had therefore, felt it his duty, whenever he had been directly or indirectly concerned in any of those institutions which promoted education and religion, as far as possible, to impart a comprehensive character to them, so much so,
 1366 1367
 Mr. Buckingham  having presented several petitions against drunkenness said: I have heard numerous objections raised to the prayer of such petitions as these, but I confess none have surprised me so much as that of the hon. member for Oldham, who said, that drunkenness had existed in all time—that people always had got drunk—and that they got drunk still; but he did not add (which was necessary to complete the sentence) that they would continue to get drunk in future. Sir, if the antiquity of a vice is a justification of its continuance, and a reason why no steps should be taken to put a stop to it, murder is a very ancient offence—it goes back to the time of Cain, and I believe Noah had a taste for it; and does the hon. Member mean that murder and other horrible offences, because they began at a remote period, are not to be prevented? It is not for an inquiry whether people get drunk, that the petitioners ask, for they are satisfied that drunkenness does exist to a great extent,—that it causes a vast mass of disease,—that it fills our gaols with criminals,—and is one great cause of the increase and extent of pauperism. It does appear to me, that when hon. Members think it right to attempt to correct the evils arising from beer-shops, it is monstrous to suppose, that they will not think the far greater evil of gin-shops worthy their attention, for if there
 1363
 Mr. Brotherton  concurred with the hon. member for Oldham in thinking, that much good could not be done on the subject by legislation; still it would be useful to go into a Committee to inquire into the causes of drunkenness, which he was convinced had very much increased; and it would not be very difficult to satisfy the House, that drunkenness was the cause of much of the poverty, and crime, and misery of the people of England. He believed, that if the poor could be convinced that their own conduct was the cause of their misery, it would do much to relieve them from that slavery which they at present endured. For his own part, he thought drunkenness was the cause of the fall of man originally; and it was the fall of man still, for it degraded him to the level of the beasts of the field. He could say with the hon. member for Oldham, that both by example and precept he was an advocate for temperance; and it might be useful to the people of England to know that there were Members of that House who did not think it necessary to drink intoxicating liquors. For the last twenty-four or twenty-five years, he had been a water drinker, and he had enjoyed ten
 1365
 Mr. Hume  protested against the sentiments contained in this petition. The hon. Member did not state, that he considered the Universities had been endowed with property which originally belonged to the Church alone. He considered the Universities national institutions from which all persons had a right to derive benefit. He thought the Dissenters entitled to participate in all the advantages which these public institutions could give, and he hoped they would not be satisfied until they succeeded in obtaining that participation. He must express his regret, knowing the liberal course of policy which the hon. Member had taken, that the hon. Member should believe, that the admission of the Dissenters to the Universities would be injurious to the Established Church. In answer to that which appeared to have had considerable influence in bringing the hon. Member to that conclusion—namely, the opinion of Mr. Tottie, who said, that but for the Established Church the other sects would tear each other to pieces—he must say that was only the opinion of one, member of one sect. Now, rather than rely upon the opinion of one individual, he would ask the hon. Member why that evil did not exist in the United States? There was not half so much acrimony in the United States as in one parish in England, and so far from the present Establishment promoting harmony, he thought that it was the cause of perpetual quarrels and discord.
 Mr. Cobbett  hoped it would not be supposed, that he intended to say anything in favour of drunkenness. In all manner of ways, by precept as well as by example (and perhaps that was not the least effectual course), he had all his life been the advocate of sobriety; but what he objected to was people coming to ask the House to pass laws to correct evils which no laws could correct. There must be something left to the pulpit,—there must be something left to the parents,—there must be something left to the moral teacher. They were not to make laws to correct every evil which arose in families or in society. By-and-by persons would ask for a law to make people pull their hats off on proper occasions, or some such ridiculous thing. The hon. Member forgot there was a law already to punish drunkenness, and a law quite severe enough. A Magistrate could, at any time, punish a man for being drunk in his presence; or, if he was informed of a man being drunk, he could punish him without trial by Jury or any further ceremony. Why was not that law applied? Until it were found ineffectual, why pass new laws? It never was applied because Magistrates had too much sense—they knew the law would not prevent the offence. It was a great evil,—a great moral offence. He trusted he was a moderate and a temperate man, who had never been intoxicated since he was born. No man could say, he had been intoxicated—no man could say he ever drank anything stronger than milk. He was therefore, no advocate for drunkenness—he was a great advocate for sobriety. He was certain that 10,000 parents, from different parts of England, had thanked him for having made their sons sober men from being drunkards, by his writings. Therefore, he begged to be understood by bon. Members, as not being a pattern of drun-
 1364
 Mr. Ward : * * 1369 1370 1371 1372 1373 1374 1375 1376 1377 1378 'Like snow before the summer's sun.' l l 1379 l l l Finn: l 1380 l l 1381 1382 l 1383 s l l l l l l l l l l maximum l l l maximum 1384 l l l l l l l 1385 l l l Regium Donum l l l minimum l l l l 1386 1387 No, no 1388 Perceval: 1389 1390 1391 1392 1393 1394 1395 1396
 Lord Althorp : Since my hon. friend who rose to support this Motion, commenced his address, circumstances have come to my knowledge which induce me to move, that the further debate upon this subject be adjourned to Monday next. I cannot now state what those circumstances are; but I hope the House has sufficient confidence in me [The noble Lord was interrupted by loud and long continued cheering, from all parts of the House.] I hope, I repeat, that the House will have sufficient confidence in me to believe, that I would not make such a proposition unless I were convinced of its propriety. I now move, that the further debate on this Motion be adjourned to Monday next.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  rose to present three Petitions from the Ministers, Churchwardens, and inhabitants, of the several parishes of St. Peter-in-the-East, St. Aldate, and Holywell, in the city of Oxford. All the petitioners stated, that should the measure sought by the Universities' Admission Bill (the second reading of which had been fixed for that evening) receive the sanction of the Legislature, the most serious consequences would ensue; that it would be an infraction of the ancient rights of the Universities, an innovation of their discipline, would lead to schisms amongst the students, to the overthrow of those regulations which time had proved were so essential to the promotion of learning and the advancement of the great and solid interests of the country in Church and State, and eventually to the subversion of the established religion; and that the union which had so long and so beneficially subsisted between the Universities and the Church of England (deeply felt by the petitioners) would virtually become extinct; but, beyond what the petitioners had thus submitted to the consideration of the House, there was another fundamental objection to the Bill, viz. that it proposed to admit, not only persons of every or any religious persuasion, but to allow men destitute of all religious principle whatever, to matriculate and take degrees; and, so privileged, they would go forth to the world with all the force and effect which learning could confer, to forward and accomplish their mischievous designs. He had on a former occasion, when presenting a similar petition, unanimously agreed to by the Corporation of Oxford, read to the House the declaration of all those immediately connected with the instruction and discipline of the University of Oxford, to the effect that it was their determined purpose, to the utmost of their power, to maintain inviolate their present system of religious instruction. Since that time, the number of Members of Convocation and Bachelors of Civil Law, who had signed a declaration, expressive of their approval of the
 10
 Colonel Evans  felt confident, that the effect of the indecisive conduct of the Government would be, to compel the present Administration to make way for one better suited to the spirit of the times. The noble Lord opposite claimed the confidence of the House in favour of the Government; but would it not be as well for the House first to know of whom that Government was composed? The hon. member for Middlesex had given some very good reasons for refusing confidence to the Administration, supposing it to be really framed; and if it was to the same Government as before, he (Colonel Evans) had one or two reasons of his own for withholding his confidence. The noble Lord had stated, more indistinctly than might have been expected, his opinion on the question under consideration; but if that opinion had been most unqualifiedly expressed in favour of the resolution, he should yet have been in doubt as to the course the Government would pursue. The noble Lord, before he accepted office, had frequently voted in favour of the principle, that the taxes should be taken off knowledge; and though, since he had been in office, he declared that his opinion on that subject remained unchanged, it did not appear that he had succeeded in inducing the Government to propose the repeal of the taxes on knowledge. The noble Lord said, that the House was not in a condition to express an opinion on the question, for want of information; but the House surely did not forget, that, in February last year, the noble Lord stated the amount of the revenues of the Irish Church to be 800,000 l
 Mr. Stanley. * * 35 36 l 37 38 O'Connell: 39 40 l 41
 Mr. O'Connell  could not agree with the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, that the noble Lord's commission of inquiry would give any satisfaction, under whatever circumstances; and he warned Ministers against being led away by the delusion, that this commission would do any thing for them. We had a commission of corporate inquiry last year; and what good did it do? How much nearer were we to obtaining relief from the grievance of corporate abuses? A commission was a mere pretence—a wet blanket to stifle what the country required, and what Ministers, if they had sufficient determination and manliness, would give,—he meant satisfaction to Ireland and security to England; for, unless satisfaction were afforded to Ireland, blessed be God! there could not be any security for England. His object in pressing this subject on the attention of Ministers was solely with a view to give satisfaction to Ireland. He had a plan of his own for giving satisfaction in this matter, but he did not now press it on Ministers or the House; and why?—because he wished to urge the noble Lord opposite to come forward and proceed with a satisfactory plan himself. Let the noble Lord do so, let Ministers adopt that course, and take Ireland out of the hands of agitators, as they termed him and his friends. If Gentlemen thought that there was no real grievance, that all alleged evils were mere poetry and the imagination of public men, it would not be hard to satisfy the demands of the Irish people; but if grievances
 48 49 50 51 ["Hear, hear."] 52 53 54 55 56 ignis fatuus 57
 Mr. Lefroy  regretted the course pursued by the Government, and that while professing their attachment to principles of conservation in Church questions they
 84 l l l l l l l l l 85
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, he rose to submit to the House the Motion of which he had given notice for the insertion of a clause in the Bill, enacting, that all and every persons and person, who were or was assessed to the rates and duties on windows or lights, for the year or half year, ending on the 5th day of April last, shall be entitled to make or open, and keep open, free of duty, any additional number of windows or lights, in their, his, or her dwelling-house, warehouse, shop, or other premises so assessed; and that no person or persons not so assessed for his, her, or their dwelling-house, warehouse, shop, or other premises, by reason of the same not containing six windows or lights, shall be brought into assessment, or made liable to rates and duties, because of the opening of any addi-
 88 89
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  reminded the right hon. Gentleman, that not only notice of his Motion, but the very words of his clause had been repeatedly printed in their votes, and the Government could not, therefore, say they were taken by surprise; notwithstanding which, he was disposed, after what had passed, to meet the wishes of the noble Lord. He hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer might shortly feel at liberty to repeal the Window-duty altogether, but the effect of the adoption of his proposition would certainly be, to cause the tax to be more patiently submitted to during the time it was necessarily continued. The most important portion of his clause had been overlooked in the debate; at present, a
 90
 Colonel Conolly  said, that the mode in which it was endeavoured to establish the principle involved in the resolution, appeared to him most singular; and he had hoped, that the counsellors of the Crown, particularly after the opinion of his Majesty had been so recently declared on the subject, would not have resorted to
 25 26 27 28
 Colonel Davies  said, that he came down to the House the other evening prepared to support the Motion of his hon. friend the member for St. Alban's, at whatever risk to the Government; but the declaration made by the noble Lord, that a commission of inquiry had been appointed, and that as soon as a report should be made, Government would be ready to take the subject up, had placed him in a situation of considerable embarrassment, in common with many hon. Members who intended to give their support to Ministers on the present occasion. He thought much good might arise from the appointment of the Commission; and he did not, like the hon. member for Middlesex, regard it as a mere milk-and-water affair, proposed solely for the purpose of gaining time; for he believed, that the noble Lord opposite, and the majority of his colleagues, were sincere, when they avowed their intention of investigating the subject fully, and of acting with respect to it in a most enlightened manner. But he knew not how it was, that the present Ministers never brought forward any measure without introducing some bitter material into the composition. Why was it that their conduct, which, on the present question, ought to be such as the whole empire, and particularly Ireland, might regard with delight, was rather calculated to excite distrust and alarm than confidence? The noble Lord had called on the House to put confidence in him. He had great confidence in the noble Lord. He believed there was no man in existence more
 23 24
 Colonel Butler  presented a Petition from the parish of St. John, in the city of Kilkenny, very numerously signed, in which the petitioners stated, that they were by no means hostile to the clergy of the Established Church being fairly remunerated for them services, but, as they were convinced the hunted property of the church, if fairly let at anything like its real value, would amply afford to the Government the means for so providing fur them, they prayed for a total abolition of the odious impost of tithes, as they were the constant source in Ireland of misery, outrage, told too often of bloodshed, in the rigorous exaction of them. He perfectly agreed with the petitioners in every respect, most par-
 7 l s. d. 8 l l s. d. l s. d., 9
 Lord John Russell  rose for the purpose of making a few remarks in reply to the
 29 30 bonâ fide Hume: 31 32 33 34
 Mr. Hawes  said, that the hon. Gentleman, who had just spoken, appeared to have been converted by the speeches of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Stanley), and the right hon. Baronet, the member
 75
 Mr. Charles Grant  said, that it was not his intention to trespass at any length upon the patience of the House, or follow in detail the speech pronounced by the eloquent Gentleman who had just resumed his seat. However much he differed from that hon. and learned Gentleman in general on the subject of Ireland, he always heard him with sympathy and with a melancholy satisfaction, as a man who felt for his country, and as the eloquent representative of the wrongs which, in former times, Ireland had sustained. But the misfortune was, that the hon. Gentleman was equally eloquent with regard to Ireland, whether discussing measures of decided relief to that country, or complaining of measures of coercion. He was at a loss to see any argument in the hon. Gentleman's speech which tended to support the original resolution: for the hon. Member, although professing to be favourable to that resolution, was decidedly against issuing a commission, notwithstanding the hon. member for St. Alban's had said, that his first step upon the recognition of his resolution, must be the issuing of a commission. The hon. Member said, "Give us acts, not words," and yet he objected to an act so decided as the issuing of a commission. The hon. member for Wexford stated, that the resolution received his support, because it would be binding on any subsequent House of Commons; but that was an inadequate and fallacious ground of support; for, notwithstanding the resolution should be now agreed to, any future House would approach the question quite as freely and unfettered as the present. The hon. member for Dublin ought to produce some other plan which he could recommend, for all objections to his noble friend's commission applied as strongly to the resolution of the hon. member for St. Alban's, the object of which was also the appointment of a commission. He desired not to see any triumph of one party over another; it was to afford reasonable satisfaction to Ire-
 58 59
 Mr. Dominick Browne  trusted the House would lend him their patient attention for a few moments. The real question before the House, and before the country, was, whether the Roman Catholic religion in Ireland, the faith of six millions of its people, of three-fourths of its inhabitants—a faith which had maintained its noble front with inviolate purity and strength against every species of persecution for centuries—whether this should be any longer treated merely as the tolerated tenets of a sect? The Roman Catholic religion was the religion of Ireland; there was, no doubt, a certain portion of Presbyterians in the North, and of Protestants here and there, but the religion of a vast majority, of six millions out of eight millions, of three-fourths of the people was Roman Catholic. Was the faith, then, of so great a majority of the population to be treated as merely the doctrines of a sect, or ought it not rather to be considered and treated as the religion of that country. Throughout Europe there never had been, nor was there an instance in which the religion of the majority was so considered or treated. Prussia, for instance, had never attempted to hold up the Roman Catholics in Silesia, or on the Rhine, as a sect subservient to one Protestant Church; nor had Russia attempted anything of the sort with the Roman Catholics in Poland. Ireland was the only country in which such a monstrous absurdity had been instituted, and it was now high time to do away with the absurdity. The House seemed to be acting under an idea that Ireland was a
 81 ["No, no!"].
 Mr. Browne  explained, that he did not mean to say what had been attributed to him, but as he was pressed on the subject, he must say, he thought half the revenues of the Irish Church ought to be appropriated to the Catholic priesthood.
 Mr. Ellice  observed, that a more conclusive argument against that which had been urged by the hon. Member opposite could not be found than that which was contained in the speech of his hon. friend behind him, who boldly recommended the diversion of the revenues of the Irish Church in order to raise an ascendancy of a Catholic clergy. [ "No, no!" "No," from Mr. Browne. 82 83
 Mr. Barron  had acquired increased confidence in his Majesty's Government, in consequence of the secession from its councils of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Stanley). Having that confidence, by giving his support to the proposition of the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he did not feel, that he should vote against the principles contained in the Resolutions which had been moved by the hon. member for St. Alban's. By doing so, he did not conceive, that he should pledge himself in the remotest degree against the principles thus laid down. He believed there existed a secret reason which precluded the Ministers from stating, in exact or definite terms, the ulterior proceedings which they might contemplate, or to make such disclosures as would remove all doubts of their intentions; but now that the Ministry was purified, he trusted that they would pursue that bold course which would secure the confidence of the country and the support o every independent man in Parliament.
 Mr. Lambert  hoped, that the House would permit him to explain very briefly the reasons which induced him to support the Motion of the hon. member for St. Alban's. In the first place, he would ask any Gentleman who on Tuesday last was prepared to vote for that Motion, what had occurred since then, to justify him in withdrawing his support from it? It was true, that in the interim a part of the Cabinet had separated from it; hut it was evident that, in the Cabinet, as it now existed, there were still some influential Members opposed to this question of appropriation. From what had recently occurred, it appeared to him that a difference of opinion on this subject laid long existed in the Cabinet, and that it had been suppressed by mental agreement. How did the House know, that this difference of opinion did not still continue in opposition to the wishes and to the interests of the country? It appeared to him that this subject divided itself into two distinct branches; first, there was the question as to the principle of appropriation; and next, there was the question as to the amount of property to be appropriated. Now, the question as to the principle of appropriation stood by itself. Place that principle upon record beyond the power of revocation, and then proceed to inquire into the amount of revenues to be appropriated. A commission issuing from the Crown might be revoked, but a Resolution of that House affirming the principle of appropriation could not be revoked. It would stand on the journals
 46 ["No, no."]. 47
 Mr. Hume  seconded the Motion, the utility and importance of which he enforced.
 Mr. Hume  said, that however willing he might be to put confidence in the noble Lord personally, he could not put confidence in the administration of which the noble Lord formed part; and he would state to the House why. On the 12th of February last year, the noble Lord, after enumerating the value of Church property in Ireland, concluded his speech by declaring "that if by any act of the Legislature new value can be given to any property belonging to the Church, that new value will not properly belong to the Church, because it is an acquisition dependent on such act of the Legislature, and may be appropriated immediately to the use of the State." * * 19 20 21 22
 Mr. Spring Rice  could not help thinking, that his right hon. friend had introduced into the speech which he had just concluded many topics which, though of the greatest importance in themselves, were not immediately applicable to the question before the House. As to the last observation of his right hon. friend, it was quite unnecessary, for with the exception of a single phrase there was not a word upon which he, or any other of the right hon. Gentleman's colleagues, had any reason to offer a remark. The phrase to which this observation applied was that in which his right hon. friend had stated that he was addressing the House in his own vindication. His right hon. friend required no vindication. There was not an individual of any party who was not ready to admit, that his right hon. friend had acted on this, as on every other occasion, from the purest impulses of patriotism. He trusted, that his right hon. friend would admit to others, that if they had concurred with him in general principles, they would also have concurred with him in their course of action. In what, then, he would ask, did the difference of opinion between his right hon.
 42 43 l 44
 Mr. Spring Rice  urged upon the hon. member for Oxford to extend the courtesy he had already repeatedly shown, by deferring his Motion, at the request of the Government, and agree to the suggestion of his noble friend.
 Mr. Ewart  said, he understood the Government objected to adopt as an isolated Resolution the Motion of his hon. friend the member for St. Alban's; yet they approved of it as far as regarded the end proposed. Why, then, did they not embody it in their own resolutions? All their speeches had been favourable to it. It was perfectly practicable for them to carry their commission for inquiry, and yet to assign at the same time the view with which they carried it. He (Mr. Ewart) must be excused if, with every respect for the right hon. member for South Lancashire,(Mr. Stanley), he differed from him when he vindicated the maintenance of a predominant Church. The reasons which the right hon. Member urged were the very same reasons which in former times had been urged in favour of papal ascendancy. They differed only in degree. When he heard such doctrines, he must say, that "New Protestant was but Old Priest writ large." He was sorry, too, to hear his right hon. friend (Mr. Spring Rice) advocate the course adopted by the Ministry merely because he considered it as supporting an establishment. In his view, the question was not merely a Pro-
 45
 Mr. O'Reilly  expressed his regret, that the Motion of the hon. member for St. Alban's had not been met by his Majesty's Government broadly and fairly by a decided negative. Such a negative would have had his most cordial support. He entertained the highest respect for the principle of civil and religious freedom, and he was most anxious not only that the body to which he belonged, but also every other denomination of Christians
 71 72
 Mr. Ward  was understood to say, that he would willingly agree to an Address to the Crown, which affirmed the principle of his proposition.
 Mr. Ward : I feel myself in a situation of most singular, and, I may say, of most painful responsibility. The noble Lord has come forward, on the part of the Government, to meet one of the gravest, and, I will say—considering all the points embraced—one of the greatest questions ever submitted to this House. He purposes to meet it by a Commission of Inquiry, which, I am bound to say, seems to have been instituted on the fairest principles, and furnished with the most ample instructions. I admit that at once. I have also perfect confidence, that if the noble Lord were sure of continuing in his situation, that the object of the Commission would be fairly and honourably executed; but I feel unspeakable pain in adding,
 14 data 15
 Mr. Ward  rose to reply:—The noble Lord, he observed, had said, that he (Mr. Ward) had brought forward no fact or adduced no argument that night which should induce the House to agree to his Motion; but in saying so the noble Lord would seem to forget that his facts and arguments had been all brought forward upon a former occasion, and that it was not for him to trouble the House by repeating them, his case having been already made out. As to the general accuracy of these facts, there could be no prouder confirmation of it than that they had not been impugned by any one of the three right hon. Gentlemen who had spoken that evening, and who were so intimately acquainted with the affairs of Ireland. He alluded to the right hon. Baronet, the member for Tamworth, the late right hon. Secretary for the Colonies, and the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Rice). The only person who had assailed the correctness of his statements was the hon. and learned Gentleman who spoke last. He had accused him (Mr. Ward) of gross exaggeration. He, however, had rested his statement upon documents accessible to everybody—he had rested it upon a statement made by the noble Lord, and confirmed by Returns made to that House. This was with respect to two-thirds of the parishes; and for the 272 parishes of which there was no Return he had added one-fourth; and for 85,000 Irish acres
 86 s.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that the hon. member for the Tower Hamlets seemed to approve of the present Administration because he thought it had preserved its
 76 77
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that at a period of such importance, and when events were passing calculated to excite in the public mind so much anxiety,—nay, so much dismay,—it was with deep regret that he found himself precluded on this occasion from taking any course that could be satisfactory to his own mind, or which could, he feared, be intelligible to the country at large. A Motion had been made by the hon. member for St. Alban's distinctly affirming two principles—first, that the temporal possessions of the Church of Ireland exceeded the spiritual wants of the Protestants of Ireland; and secondly, this new and important principle, that that House had a right to appropriate the temporal possessions of the Church of Ireland to purposes not necessarily connected with the interests of the Protestant Church. He wished to fight the battle on that principle. He was ready to declare his opinion on that subject. He wanted to state it—not as the hon. and learned Gentleman said, in a tone of offensive exultation, and not claiming superiority over any class of his fellow-subjects because he was a Member of the Church from which they dissented; but prepared to maintain, that the House was bound to preserve inviolate the Protestant establishment in Ireland as well as in England. He was ready to uphold and defend that principle. That was a
 60 bonâ fide, 61 62 bonâ fide 63 64 Ward: 65 66 67 ["No, no!"] 68 69 70
 Mr. Clay  said, that he was very far from wishing to offer any opposition to the course which the Government had felt it their duty to pursue, and therefore felt, in the first instance, much disposed to support the Amendment proposed by the noble Lord the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He had originally felt the more induced to do this, because the events of the last few days had altered the Cabinet; which, though it was true had lost much talent, yet it was equally true, that in the change it had gained a unity of purpose. He felt the full value of that change, and, up to a very recent period, he had the strongest inclination to support the Amendment of the noble Lord; but after what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman opposite, the Secretary for the Colonies, and the right hon. Baronet, the member for Tamworth, he felt, that the course was not practical. The right lion. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Stanley) had boldly stated as his principle, that, under no circumstances, would he consent to the alienation of Church property—no, not even though, in 250 parishes in Ireland, there was not contained one Protestant. The right hon. Gentleman had expressed doubts, as to whether a British Parliament could be found to sanction such an alienation of Church property, and had wound up his doubts by the declaration, that he had not yet seen the Sovereign who would give his sanction to such a proceeding. He would, however, tell the House and the right hon. Gentleman, that the British Parliament
 73 l 74
 Lord Althorp : His hon. friend, then, would not object to a modification of his resolution, provided that the appropriation of Church property in Ireland to the exigences of the State was declared to be within the competence of Parliament, and even desirable, for he believed the hon. Gentleman went as far as that. With respect to the first part of this proposition, he thought that it was unnecessary for the House to declare an opinion; and with respect to the second part, he did not think that the House was prepared to come to a decision on it at the present moment. Such being the state of the case, the best course which in his opinion he could adopt was, to move the previous question. This was the course it had been his intention to take on Tuesday last, but under circumstances different from the present; because then he should not have been able to state that his Majesty's Government had taken up the question seriously; but now, in moving the previous question, he was enabled to state, that a commission had been issued for the purpose of inquiring into the subject, and he thought that, under the altered circumstances of the case, many gentlemen might now vote in favour of the previous question, though they would not have conceived themselves justified in doing so on Tuesday last. His hon. friend shook his head at this statement; but such was his own opinion on the point, and he repeated that he could conceive it possible for many hon. Gentlemen
 18
 Lord Althorp  said, that as his hon. friend had declined to accede to the proposal of postponing the Motion, it became his duty to speak upon it. As to one clause of the Resolution before the House—the right of Parliament to deal with the property of the Irish Church—he had already stated his opinion, which was decidedly in accordance with that of his hon. friend. He could not have been a consenting party to the advice to his Majesty to issue a Commission, unless he had entirely agreed in that principle. As to the remainder of the Resolution—that the amount of Church-property in Ireland is at present more than commensurate to the wants of the Establishment, whatever might be his own individual opinion, and whatever might be the anticipated result of the inquiry, he did not think the House would be prepared to come directly to such a conclusion. For this reason he could not concur in the conclusion of the Resolution, that the amount of the Church revenues in Ireland ought to be diminished. He was perfectly ready to admit that Parliament, when duly informed, was competent to decide that point: Church-property was trust property; and if the amount of it were greater than was necessary for the accomplishment of the objects of the trust—if it were greatly greater than was required for the maintenance of the Established Church for the benefit of Ireland—so far from injuring the interests of that Church—so far from injuring the religious interests of the Protestants of Ireland, he thought that, to apply a part of the revenues to the religious and moral education of the people, would tend much to promote the prosperity of the Protestant Church. But having stated thus much, it appeared to him, that it was not fitting for the House of Commons to adopt the latter part of the hon. Gentleman's resolution. Some previous investigation ought to take place; and when it was known
 16 17
 Lord Althorp : I rise for the purpose of moving the Order of the Day for resuming the adjourned debate on the Motion of my hon. friend, the member for St. Alban's. In doing so, I wish to address a few observations to the House. In the first place, I think it due to the House, and due to the Government, to give some explanation of the course we have thought it, expedient to take, and that explanation will, perhaps, induce my hon. friend to consent to a further postponement of the question. It is not necessary for me to mention, since the fact is avowed and notorious, that differences of opinion existed among the members of the Government respecting the power of Parliament, should the necessity be found to exist, of appropriating the whole, or a part of the revenues of the Church of Ireland. We were aware of the difficulties felt by some of our colleagues who have now separated from us, and which separation no man more sincerely regrets than myself. I must of course lament the loss of the able assistance hitherto received from them. I feel it now, and I shall feel it deeply hereafter; but we were aware that four of our colleagues differed from the rest of the Cabinet upon this question, although we agreed upon every other question. We all, however, concurred in thinking that it was not practically necessary to come to a decision upon it, until we had seemed the revenues of the Church of Ireland for such purposes as those to which it might be expedient for Parliament to apply them. We were not, therefore, of opinion that any practical question would come before us which would make it necessary for us to separate upon such a difference of opinion. Agreeing, as I stated, upon every other point, and also on the question of the Irish Church establishment, though we differed as to the appropriation of Church property, we thought we should not be
 
 
 Lord Palmerston Foreign Secretary. 
 Lord Melbourne Home Secretary. 
 Rt. Hon. T. S. Rice Colonial Secretary. 
 Lord Auckland First Lord of the Adm. 
 Rt. Hon. C. Grant Pres. of the B. of Contr. 
 Lord John Russell Paymas. of the Forces. 
 Rt. Hon. E. Ellice Secretary at War. 
 Rt. Hn. J. Abercrombie Master of the Mint. 
 Other changes:— 
 Marq. of Conyngham Postmaster-General. 
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson Judge-Advocate-Gen. 
 Mr. F. T. Baring Secretary to the Treas. 
 Captain Byng One of Lds. of Treasury. 12 13
 Lord Althorp  hoped the hon. member for Oxford would consent to withhold his clause, and move it in some stage of the Assessed Taxes' Composition Bill about to be introduced, admitting, at the same time, that it had not received that attention from the Government which it merited, and he promised to give to it, with a sincere desire, if possible, to agree with it.
 Viscount Palmerston  wished to address the House for a very few minutes; and he should have the less occasion to obtrude himself for any length of time on the patience of hon. Members, because he did not feel called upon to enter into a discussion on that part of the question which would bring him into collision with his right hon. friend; and he felt the greatest satisfaction in this circumstance, inasmuch as, whatever sneers the hon. and learned member for Dublin might please to throw out respecting the honey of friendship, and however much that hon.
 78 79 80
 Sir George Strickland  rose to second the Motion. He fully agreed with the hon. Member who brought forward the Motion, that nothing could be more desirable than to check as far as possible the vice of drunkenness, though he regretted, that the hon. Member had not mentioned all the remedies for the evil. Neither did he think that the hon. Member had pointed out the means by which the Committee could come to a satisfactory result, and thought, that it was the duty of the House not to appoint Committees unless they were likely to lead to some useful legislation. The hon. Member had referred to the payment of wages; but he must say, that he was not disposed to interfere with the mode of paying labourers' wages at present established throughout the country. This was a subject to which he had paid particular
 121
 Mr. John Maxwell  supported the Motion, because he thought Parliament might do something to check the vice. In some parts of Scotland, and among certain classes of mechanics, this vice, he regretted to say, was on the increase, though certainly not from want of education.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  would vote for the Motion of the hon. member for Sheffield. He believed intemperance to have decreased on the part of the rich, and to have increased on the part of the poor. He would occupy the attention of the House only while he alluded to what had passed on the subject of temperance before the Select Committee on the expedition to the Arctic Seas, which, he thought, ought to be now generally known to the From the evidence of Captain Ross, it appeared that, during the last fifteen months of the period that he and his crew were enduring extreme hardships and privations, they were entirely without ardent spirits, melted ice or snow, with the addition of lime juice, being their only beverage; that, to the absence of spirits, he attributed in a great degree the health which the crew latterly enjoyed. Had there been an abundant supply of spirits, and they had been used as freely as, under the circumstances, the sailors would have been disposed to indulge in them, Captain Ross gave it as his opinion, that not only would not the health of the crew have been so good, but he should not have brought back to this country so large a proportion of them.
 Mr. Cayley  considered it necessary to inquire as to the ultimate causes which led to the present increase of drunkenness, and for that reason he should support the Motion for going into a Committee of Inquiry on the subject.
 Colonel Williams  said, that one of the worst things about those infernal gin-shops was, that well-dressed women were continually seen issuing out of them. The consequence would be, that future generations would be polluted and contaminated, and the Legislature could not employ too much energy in putting them down. He supported the Motion.
 Colonel Evans  begged the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) to withdraw his opposition to the Motion. When so many Members appeared in favour of the Motion, it would be better if the noble Lord would farego, his own views.
 Mr. Cobbell  expressed himself satisfied, that the scheme suggested by the hon. and learned member for Bath would not be productive of any good, and this he thought he could show to the House. On the subject of education in this country, it was not philosophy or reasoning that could guide, but recourse ought rather to be had to experience. Everybody knew that, within the last thirty-five years, Lancasterian and other schools had been founded, and education had increased twenty-fold; but experience showed, that the morals of the people had not mended with the increase of education. It had even been admitted that night, that drunkenness had increased wonderfully within latter years, so that education did not even prevent drunkenness. He repeated, that all this increase of education had not been productive of any good; and he ventured to say, that there was not a single country gentleman who would not say, that the fathers of the last generation made better labourers, better servants, and better men,
 132 Hon. Member 133 l
 Mr. Hill  rose for the purpose, though he did not concur with the views taken by the noble Lord. He apprehended, that the course he was pursuing was not unusual. He seconded the Amendment, that it might receive discussion, not because he agreed with the principles it embodied.
 Mr. Hume  opposed the third reading of the Bill. He wished the Bill to be divided into two, to embrace the two parts of which it consisted. He recommended that, in all cases, each claim for retiring pensions should be brought before Parliament, and he objected to the pensions enjoyed by several persons who had filled Ministerial offices, but were now in possession of large incomes.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the coming to Parliament in each case would lead to extravagance, for, in a popular assembly, there was always a readiness to grant pensions in individual cases, although there would be much jealousy in sanctioning such as were left to the responsibility of Ministers. He was convinced, that the best system was to
 143
 Mr. Hawes  said, that if the right hon. Baronet would exempt from the operation of the Bill those clerks who were in office prior to 1829, and who had, therefore, a claim to their pensions, he would withdraw his opposition.
 Sir James Graham  said, that the modification of the 10th clause would answer that object; there had been a misapprehension upon this point. He thought the House must see, that it was highly expedient that superiors in an office should have that salutary control and check over those below them, which the allowance of retiring pensions under this Bill afforded, in order that reward might be meted out according to merit.
 Lord Dudley Stuart  called the attention of the House to the distressed condition of the Polish Refugees in tins country. The noble Lord briefly described the events which had recently occurred in Poland, and winch had terminated in the overthrow of liberty, amid the establishment of the cruel despotism of Russia in that ill-fated country, and expressed a hope, that the House would not turn a deaf ear to the claims of the brave men who had sacrificed everything but honour in the struggle for freedom. It was well known, that a remnant of the gallant Polish army, escaped from the slaughter of which so many thousand of their compatriots were the victims, had sought an asylum on the shores of happy
 140 l l 141 l l
 Mr. Charles Grant , in moving for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the best means of promoting the communication with India by steam, observed, that the East-India Company had not neglected its duty on this important subject. The Company had employed a vessel to survey the coasts, and had already established steam navigation between Bombay and the Red Sea. Two routes had been pointed out, one by the Red Set, another by the Euphrates; and the consideration of which was the better of the two would form an interesting subject of inquiry in the Committee. He would then only move for its appointment.
 Mr. Baines  was sorry, that the noble
 125
 Mr. Robinson  saw no probability that any new facts would come out before this Committee, if it should be appointed. Why not at once propose some substantive remedy, though he much doubted whether any effectual remedy could be applied? The best way for Gentlemen who wished to put down this vice, would be to embody their ideas in a bill. He was afraid, though of course it would not be avowed, that, on a question of this kind, the consideration of revenue must have some influence on any Government. Seeing no good that could result from it, he would not support the Motion.
 Mr. Warburton  concurred with his hon. friend (Mr. Hume), that the only effectual mode of preventing drunkenness was by extending to persons of moderate means the same motives for abandoning the practice as influenced those of a higher station. Make drunkenness disgraceful in the eyes of the people—circulate cheap publications against the vice—encourage education, and render it honourable to abstain from habits of intemperance by gradually affecting opinion on the subject;—these were the proper means of putting an end to drunkenness.
 Mr. Abercromby  suggested, that the word "national" should be omitted. He wished to have the inquiry directed to the state of education generally, and the effect of the grant made last Session.
 Mr. Buckingham  could not think of abandoning a Motion founded in public utility, calculated to prevent vice and promote morality; and, therefore, without intending the least disrespect to the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he must press the question to a division.
 Mr. Buckingham : Sir, in rising to call the attention of the House to the Motion of which I have given notice, for a Select Committee to inquire into the causes of the great increase of habitual Drunkenness among the labouring classes of this kingdom, and to devise legislative measures to prevent its further spread, I am so fully sensible of the difficulty of the task, that nothing but a strong conviction of its public importance would have induced me to undertake it. In the expositions which it will be my painful duty to make, I can scarcely fail to encounter the hostility of those who profit largely by the demoralization of which they are both the cause and the support. In suggesting the remedies which I shall venture to propose, I foresee the opposition of a large
 91 92 Times GIN-DRINKING.—The seventy-six deaths which have occurred in the year have been, with the exception of those who have died from advanced age, principally caused by the disease of the brain, of the lungs, and the complaints brought on by those deadly potions of ardent spirits in  which the lower classes seem more than ever to indulge 93 94 I have been this day in the City Chambers, and have ascertained from the official records, that in the Royalty (or city), there were issued for the years 1833–4, no less than 736 licences. The Royalty contains 55,232 souls, and 11,046 families; this is, therefore, a licence to every fifteenth family. The whole population of Edinburgh and its suburbs, is about 166,000; but beyond the Royalty, the licences are mixed up with those of the county, and it is not so easy to obtain a distinct account of them. This, however, is well known, that three years ago there were only 1,700 licences in the whole of this district; so that the increase in that short space of time is enormous. The demand for spirituous liquors is so universal, that spirit shops in the town of Ulster average sixteen, eighteen, and even thirty, to one baker's shop; and in some villages every shop is a spirit shop. In one town, containing only 800 houses, there are no less than eighty-eight spirit shops. The fruit of all this exhibits itself everywhere in the destruction of property, and peace, and health, and life, and happiness; in the increase of crime, the injury of the best interests of individuals, of families, and of the community at large. I have just returned from a six weeks' jour-
 95 some trifling degree l l A striking example of the mischiefs which may be done by a manufacture tending to deprave the morals of the people, has been exhibited for several years back in the distilleries of this kingdom. This manufacture, by producing ardent spirits in large quantities, and at a cheap rate, has emasculated the minds, and enervated the bodies of the poor of Ireland. It has spread its poison throughout every quarter of the country; it has rendered poverty more miserable, and rendered vice of all kinds more prevalent, and more ferocious. Of manufactures it has been the bane. It has disinclined and disabled the workman to perform his work with either accuracy or despatch; it has made him combine against his employer, to extort the means of dissipation, and it has made him more idle to spend them. In a word, it has filled our streets with beggary, riot, and vice—has raised the prices, and spoiled the quality of our goods, and has made the fertility of our island, instead of a blessing, a curse. 96 Some idea (he says) may be formed of the influence of these establishments, the ginshops, on the health and morals of the people, from the following statement, for which I am indebted to Mr. Bradley, the boroughreeve of Manchester. He observed the number of persons entering a single gin-shop in five minutes, during eight successive Saturday evenings, and at various periods, from seven o'clock till ten. The average result was 112 men, and 163 women, or 275 in forty minutes, which is equal to 412 per hour. l l l Sheffield Iris THE INTOXICATING MARCH TO DEATH.—It is a painful, but at the same time a most melancholy fact, that Mr. Badger, the coroner of this district, has, within the short space of ten days, had occasion to hold inquests on thirteen persons who have come to their deaths by accidents solely arising from indulging in the baneful vice of drunkenness. 97 98 99 100 l 101 l 102 103 We, the undersigned, do hereby declare that, in our opinion, ardent spirits cannot be regarded as a necessary, suitable, or nourishing article of diet; that they have not the property of preventing the accession of any complaints, but may be considered as the principal source of numerous and formidable diseases, and the principal cause of the poverty, crime, and misery which abound in this country; and that the entire disuse of them, except under medical direction, would materially tend to improve the health, amend the morals, and augment the comfort of the community. Sir Astley Cooper, Bart., Principal Surgeon to the King, says,—"No person has a greater hostility to dram drinking than myself, insomuch that I never suffer any ardent spirits in my house, thinking them  evil spirits William Harty, Physician to the Prison of Dublin, says,—"Being thoroughly convinced, by long and extensive observation amongst the poor and middling classes, that there does not exist a more productive cause of disease, and consequent poverty and wretchedness, than the habitual use of ardent spirits, I cannot, therefore, hesitate to recommend the entire disuse of such a poison, rather than incur the risks necessarily connected with its most moderate use." Robert Christison, Professor of Materia Medica in the University of Edinburgh, says,—"The useful purposes to be served by spirituous liquors are so trifling, contrasted with the immense magnitude and variety of the evils resulting from their habitual abuse by the working classes of this country, that their entire abandonment as an article of diet is earnestly to be desired. According to my experience in the infirmary of this city, the effects of the abuse of ardent spirits in impairing health, and adding to the general mortality, are much increased in Edinburgh since the late changes in the Excise Laws, and the subsequent cheapness of whiskey." Edward Turner, Professor of Chemistry in the London University, says,—"It is my firm conviction, that ardent spirits are not a nourishing article of diet; that in this climate they
 104 The first error, with respect to the use of ardent spirits which I mean to oppose, is, that they contribute to enable men to undergo great fatigue. This is, I believe, a very common error. Spirits never add permanent strength to any person. In all climates, the temperate livers are the fittest to endure fatigue. Dr. Jackson travelled 118 miles in Jamaica in four days, and carried baggage equal in weight to the common knapsack of a soldier. He says; "In the journey which I have just now mentioned, I probably owe my escape from sickness to temperance and spare diet. I breakfasted on tea about ten in the morning, and made a meal of bread and sallad after I had taken up my lodging for the night. If I had occasion to drink through the day, water or lemonade was my beverage." He concludes his observations on this topic, by stating,—"I have introduced my own experience on the present occasion, because it enables me to speak from conviction, that an English soldier may be rendered capable of going through the severest military service in the West Indies, and that temperance will he one of the best means of enabling him to perform his duty with safety and effect." Personal experience has taught me, that the use of ardent spirits is not necessary to enable a European to undergo the fatigue of marching in a climate whose
 105 Dr. Rush says,—"Since the introduction of spirituous liquors into such general use, physicians have remarked, that a number of diseases have appeared amongst us, and have described many new symptoms as common to all diseases." Dr. Trotter says,—"Amidst all the evils of human life, no cause of disease has so wide a range, or so large a share, as the use of spirits."—"Spirituous liquors (he adds) destroy more lives than the sword; war has its intervals of destruction, but spirits operate at all times and seasons upon human life." And Dr. Paris says,—that "The art of extracting alcoholic liquors by distillation must be regarded as the greatest crime inflicted on human nature." 106 But there is in the collection of London Bills of Mortality, an item which enables us to judge, with some degree of correctness, of the alteration which had taken place in the habits of the population of the metropolis. The item to which we allude is that of 'deaths by excessive drinking.' Examining the London Bills of Mortality we find, that, with one exception, there is no record of death by excessive drinking until the year 1686; nor did the average exceed  one thirty-three one year thirty years, The Dublin Bills of Mortality show, that the effect in that City was the same. In twenty years, between 1726 and 1745, there were but  three in each year Nor is the effect of prohibitions to distillation, in producing sobriety, less remarkable. In the three years prior to the restriction on distillation in England, in 1751, the annual average of deaths by excessive drinking, in London, was  twenty-one twelve three 107 Mr. Poynder the Sub-sheriff of London, states, that he has been so long in the habit of hearing criminals refer all their misery to the habit of dram-drinking, that he has latterly ceased to ask them the causes or their ruin; nearly all the convicts for murder with whom he had conversed, had acknowledged that they were under the influence of spirits at the time they committed the acts for which they were about to suffer. Many had assured him, that they found it necessary, before they could commit crimes of particular atrocity, to have recourse to dram-drinking as a stimulus to fortify their minds to encounter any risk, and to proceed to all lengths; and he mentions the cases of several atrocious offenders, whose depravity was by themselves attributed to, and was, on investigation, found, to have originated in, such habits of intoxication. 108 The quantity of spirits which pay duty for home consumption in this kingdom has more than doubled within a few past years. According to Parliamentary returns, made in 1833, it amounted to 25,982,494 gallons at proof, which, with the addition of one-sixth for the reduction of strength by retailers, amounted to 13,429,331 l s d Four-fifths of all the crimes in our country have been estimated to be committed under the excitement of liquor. During the year 1833, to less than 29,880 persons were taken into custody by the metropolitan police for drunkenness alone; not including any of the
 109 Our parochial expenses, which have been nearly doubled since 1815, are principally occasioned by excessive drinking. Of 143 inmates of a London parish workhouse, 105 have been reduced to that state by intemperance: and the small remainder comprises all the blind, epileptic, and idiotic, as well as all the aged poor, some of whom would also drink to intoxication if opportunity offered. More than one-half of the madness in our country appears to be occasioned by drinking. Of 495 patients admitted in four years into a lunatic asylum at Liverpool, 257 were known to have lost their reason by this vice. The poor's rate and county rate, for England and Wales only, amount to 8,000,000 l l l l abuse 110 Hereafter no ardent spirits will be issued to the troops of the United States; but sugar, coffee, and rice shall be substituted instead. No ardent spirits will be allowed to be introduced into any port, camp, or garrison of the United States, nor sold by any sutler to the troops, nor will any permit be grunted for the purchase of ardent spirits. 111 Military discipline, in all its branches, becomes deeply affected by habits of intemperance. To the generally prevailing vice of drinking are to be attributed almost every misdemeanour and crime committed by British soldiers in India. The catalogue of these, unhappily, is not a scanty one; for, by rapid steps, first from petty, and then more serious, neglects and inattentions, slovenliness at, and absence from, parades, follow disobedience of orders, riots and quarrels in barracks, absence from guards and other duties, affrays with the natives, theft, and selling of their own and their comrades' necessaries, robberies, abusive language, and, violence to non-commissioned officers, insolence to officers, and, last of all, desertion, mutiny, and murder may
 112 113 The first European Temperance Society was established in 1829, by the exertions of Mr. G. W. Carr, at New Ross, in the South of Ireland, and others were early formed in the north of that island, and in Scotland. Their principles have been spread with much zeal and perseverance, and with most cheering suc-
 114 115 We are aware, that there are many who may object to this species of monopoly as a restriction on the freedom of trade; some who consider that the occupation of a publican should be as unfettered as that of a shoemaker, or a tailor, and that the man Who has a desire for drink, and the money to pay for it, should have every opportunity of getting drunk, if he has the misfortune to wish it. But let it be recollected, that the very first law of society is, that individuals shall not be permitted to do that, which, although considered beneficial to themselves, may he injurious to the community at large. The Statute-book is full of restrictions founded on this principle. No man can continue to work a factory if it be injurious to the health of those around him. A butcher is not permitted to expose for sale unsound meat. A baker is not permitted to sell unwholesome bread, because it is held criminal to place within the reach of any man that, the use of which is injurious to him. No man is permitted to keep a public gaming-house, because it is considered criminal even to tempt a man to risk his property, or to provide him with the means of squandering the substance of his family. Nor is any one permitted to
 116 117 It is a curious and important fact, that during the period when the distilleries were stopped, in 1796 and 1797, although bread and every necessary of life was considerably higher than during the preceding year, the poor, in that quarter of the town where the chief part reside, were apparently more comfortable, paid their rents more regularly, and were better fed than at any period for some years before, even although they had not the benefit of the extensive charities which were
 118 more orderly conduct, quarrels and assaults were less frequent s d 119 l l l l l l 120
 Mr. Emerson Tennent  said, the great extent of illicit distillation in Ireland, was alone sufficient to claim the attention of the noble Lord.
 Mr. Plumptre  then rose to second the
 137
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that all he wanted was a Committee to investigate the subject. He would, however, suggest to the noble Lord to insert the words "national education" in his Amendment.
 Mr. Roebuck  rose to move the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the means of establishing a system of National Education. Having determined to resume the subject which he had before undertaken, and to bring it on now in a different form from that originally adopted by him, he now requested the House to grant him a Committee of Inquiry, with a view to investigate this important subject, and prepare the public mind for such steps as it might eventually be deemed expedient to adopt. He did not wish to tie the House down to any fixed or favourite principle of his own—he merely asked for inquiry. It might be said that, by determining to inquire into the subject the House did pledge itself to a certain opinion on the point; that was true; but then the opinion was such as he believed nobody would contest—namely, "that the Legislature considered the moral and intellectual improvement of the people so important as to justify an inquiry, in order to ascertain how far that moral and mental culture could be affected, influenced, or promoted by the government of the country." He asked whether the House, which had appointed so many Committees to investigate a variety of subjects—drunkenness, for instance—would refuse to go into an inquiry which involved not a single consideration, but many of the most vital importance to every individual in the country? With regard to the instructions to the Committee of which he had given notice, he merely wished to place his own opinions on record; but if the House had the least objection to those Resolutions, he was willing to have them negatived or withdrawn, and should not press them. All he cared for was, that the inquiry should be granted. He would proceed then to argue the question on the ground of the expediency of inquiry and upon that alone. In every country which enjoyed security for person and property, that security was increased by a high state of moral and intellectual culture prevailing among the people; and the only question was, how far that condition could be improved by the care and diligence of the Government. At all times, but more especially at a period of excitement like the present, it was the duty of Government to watch narrowly and endeavour to direct
 128 129 130
 Mr. Brotherton  said, drunkenness had increased, was increasing, and ought to be diminished. It led to a great deal of crime and misery, and in many instances to insanity. He thought it might be useful to allow a Committee to be appointed to inquire as to the extent of the evil complained of, and to see whether any remedies might be found. If any could be found, he for one would be glad to listen to the suggestions of the Committee thereupon.
 Mr. Hume  admitted, that the evils of drunkenness existed to a considerable extent, but he denied, that, among the better classes, it was on the increase. On the contrary, it decreased among these classes, because they were more abundantly supplied with the means of intellectual gratification. Among the lower classes, undoubtedly, it prevailed, but he doubted if it increased. The remedy proposed was an increase of taxation upon gin. The effect of
 123 vertu Poor Richard's Almanack s d
 Mr. Hume  supported the Motion, and expressed his thanks to the right hon. Gentleman for the trouble and interest he had taken on the subject.
 Mr. Pease  said, the crime of drunkenness was increasing, and extending itself to an amazing extent. ["No !"] He travelled through the country as much as most Gentlemen, and could say, from his own observation, that it was increasing. Regular victualling-houses and beer-shops did not produce so much evil as the dram-shops. The evil arising from the employment of children in factories was trifling when compared to this. He wished the taxes both on dram-shops and on spirits to be increased which he thought would be one of the most effectual means of checking drunkenness.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  recommended, that an increased duty on licenses should be resorted to, with a view to discourage the present enormous consumption of spirituous liquors.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  was heartily grateful to his Majesty's Ministers for their assent to this Motion. He must, also, cordially express his approbation of the restrictions imposed by Government, as well as gratitude for the liberal and generous spirit which had induced the Ministers to accede to the request of his noble friend.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, he had published twelve sermons, one of which was upon the subject of drunkenness. Now, if the noble Lord and the Government were desirous to put an effectual stop to this degrading vice, the best thing they could do would be to purchase one or two million copies of this sermon, and circulate them throughout the country.
 The Speaker  intimated, that as the hon. Member had expressed himself opposed to the Amendment, he was not competent to second it.
 Sir Harry Verney  differed from the hon. member for Middlesex inasmuch, as he thought, contrary to that hon. Member's opinion, that morality might be assisted by judicious legislation. He therefore should support the Motion.
 Sir Robert Bateson  supported the Motion. He was sorry to say, that drunkenness was on the increase in his part of Ireland. The mechanics consumed their wages in whiskey, and the vice was now extending even to the farmers. This did not arise from poverty, for the wages were good. The hon. member for Middlesex (Mr. Hume) referred to the clergy of Scotland, and the salutary effect of their example and exertions in repressing the vice of drunkenness. He was well acquainted with Scotland; and he would venture to say, that in no one of the three countries, did the vice of drunkenness prevail to so great an extent as it did in Scotland. In his part of Ireland, the religion was the same as in Scotland, the clergy were as pious and as exemplary, and yet drunkenness was on the increase. He presented many petitions on the subject, every one of them having the signature of a clergyman. Nine out of ten of the offences which came before him and his brother Magistrates at Petty Sessions arose out of drunkenness. It could not be attributed to ignorance, for schools had greatly increased in that part of the country; but as the march of education increased, drunkenness increased. He doubted much whether cheap publications did much good; quite the contrary. The evil arose among other circumstances, in a great measure from the facility with which vagabonds who escaped from prison were permitted to set up public-houses. The most effectual remedy. would be to take off the duty on malt, and enable people to obtain a cheap and wholesome beverage. A distinction should be made between beer-shops, and these gin-shops, which were the receptacles of every vice. He would support the Motion.
 Sir William Molesworth  seconded the Motion. He considered the education of the lower classes in this country was as deficient in its quantity as in its quality, and that it left the minds of the people in that state of indifference which could not but be condemned by every wellthinking individual in the community. The present system was most incomplete; the children of the lower ranks of life were taught, it was true, a certain number of words conveying no ideas, or ideas so indistinct that no beneficial effects could result from such a course of instruction. It was, in his opinion, the bounden duty of the Government to provide for every child born within the realm such an education as was fitting and suitable for the station which Providence had allotted to it; and he was of opinion, that the Motion of the hon. and learned member for Bath was one which deserved the adoption of the House. While he admitted, that the experience of past years had shown the difficulties which met all attempts to secure such an attendance by children of the humble ranks upon the schools, in order to obtain those good effects
 131
 Lord Althorp  did not think it necessary to go again into this subject after the various discussions it had already undergone. There could be no doubt that much drunkenness prevailed in the country, and particularly in the metropolis; but he did not think, that it would be desirable to appoint a Committee on the subject, unless there was a prospect of effecting some good through its means. The hen. Gentleman who seconded the Motion, objected to the grounds laid for it by the hon. Member who brought it forward; but he laid other grounds of his own on which he thought the Committee ought to be granted, and these were chiefly, that no public-houses should be open on Sunday, and that no spirits should be sold except where beer was sold. To accomplish these two objects, if the hon. Gentleman thought them so desirable, there was no occasion for a Committee, as it might be much more easily done by a simple Bill. For his own part, he could not see, if people would get drunk, what difference it made whether they got drunk on the Friday or the Saturday; and, as to paying them their wages at an early hour on Saturday in preference to a late hour, he thought the change would be for the worse, as they would have the whole day to get drunk. He had always been of opinion, and was so still, that the best
 122
 Lord Althorp  said, that the object of both the Motion of the hon. and learned member for Bath, and of the Amendment moved by his noble friend upon that Motion, was the appointment of a Committee of Inquiry into the means of establishing a system of national education; and, for his part, he was quite ready to concur in that object. He had always thought it desirable that the people should be educated, and he had always concurred with those who thought, that education should be as extensive and general as possible. He confessed that, to him, the difference between the Motion and the Amendment did not appear very great. The Motion of the hon. and learned member for Bath was to inquire into the means of establishing a system of national education; that of his noble friend was to inquire into the present state of education in England and Wales. Now, it certainly was necessary, that inquiry should be made into the present state of education, as a preliminary to any ultimate measures which might be adopted; and he did not think, that it was desirable that any such inquiry should be instituted, if there was no intention of going further, which, however, he knew not to be the object of the noble Lord. He had listened with attention, and a good deal of amusement, to the speech of the hon. member for Oldham. He had often differed from that hon. Member, but he did not differ now, for the speech of the hon. Member was directed against bad, not against good, education. He had always viewed the subject in the light in which the hon. Member regarded it. The noble Lord, after adverting to education in infant schools, and contending, that a person educated tinder that system would not be taught to be discontented with his situation, proceeded to state, that he considered the man who had learned his own business, as far as the knowledge of that business
 138 139
 Lord Althorp  expressed his willingness to accede to the recommendation of his right hon. friend (Mr. Abercromby), and begged to propose the following Motion, which differed but slightly from the Amendment of his noble friend (Lord Morpeth). He would move for a Select Committee to inquire into the state of the education of the people in England and Wales, and into the application and effect of the grant made last Session for the erection of school-houses, and to consider the expediency of further grants in aid of education.
 Lord Althorp  said, he very much feared considerable inconvenience might arise from a general grant, as it would invite an indefinite influx of Poles into this country, and, therefore, he was pleased to find that his noble friend had consented to confine the grant to those who were at present in the country. With respect to the Polish emigrants, it was undoubtedly true, that they were now suffering extreme distress. The causes which had led to that suffering were certainly such as to excite very general and deep commiseration; but the distress itself, even apart from those causes, was quite sufficient to account for the very generous sympathy which had been so extensively felt on their account. In these circumstances, feeling that private subscriptions were the proper means by which the objects of charities of this sort ought to he accomplished, but apprehensive that the funds thus derived were nearly, if not entirely, exhausted, his Majesty's Government had come to the determination not to oppose the Motion of the noble Lord, on the understanding, that those who pro-
 142
 Lord Morpeth  said, that to a certain extent, he concurred with the hon. and learned member for Bath in all that he had expressed in relation to the inestimable advantages of education, of its inadequate prevalence among the population of this country, and the expediency of giving it further encouragement; but he (Lord Morpeth) should suggest an amendment which, while it contemplated the same great end, the general education of the people, would more define and concentrate the purposes than was shown in the Motion as it at present stood. To a Motion for a Committee on the subject of general education he gave his assent; but he was bound to state some of the motives which induced him to object to the specific Motion of the hon. member for Bath. The hon. Member had indeed consented to waive the instructions of which he had given notice, and which had stood upon the paper for three months; but he was sure that the spirit of
 134 135 l l l 136
 Mr. Denison  expressed his concurrence in all that had fallen from the hon. Baronet (Sir Charles Burrell) as to the benefits which might be, and had been, derived from the application of the principle of this Bill. He could state that, in sixteen parishes in Surrey, where it had been applied, the Poor-rate had been reduced one-half; the number of paupers had been diminished in the same proportion; besides which, the condition of the land had been considerably improved. Under these circumstances, he hoped the Bill would receive the sanction of the House. If there were any objectionable parts in it, they might be modified in the Committee. It should be recollected that it was only an experiment, and intended to be temporary; but even as a temporary measure, it would tend to improve the operation of the Poor-laws' Amendment Bill.
 Mr. Heathcote , having presented a number of petitions to the House in favour of this measure from the county which he represented, felt himself called upon to say a few words in support of it, which he considered well worthy the attention of the House, from the many advantages that were likely to arise from it. One great comfort that it would produce to the country generally was, the application of a much greater quantity of labour to land than could be afforded at present. This would occur by the removal of all the useless labour that was now thrown away upon roads to the cultivation of the land. He approved too, of the principle maintained by this Bill, that the majority in each parish was to bind the minority, if they chose, to regulate the labour of the parish under the provisions of the Bill, or on the principles which it laid down. He had no doubt that this measure would prove a most useful auxiliary to the Poor Laws' Amendment Bill.
 Colonel Torrens  viewed this Bill as most erroneous in principle and mischievous in practice. There could be nothing just in compelling people to pay for labour over and above what they required. A parish might as well be called upon at once to support a thousand or any other given number of labourers, although it might not require half that number. This was nothing better than an agrarian law, or at least was calculated to lead to such a law. Nothing could be worse in principle than accumulating idle labourers in a parish, and deducting from the productive industry of others to support them. If there were a surplus of labourers in a parish, the proper way to deal with them would be, if they could not be employed on the land, to apply them to the increase of the trade and commerce of the country. Convinced that this measure would prove to be practically injurious, he should give it his decided opposition.
 Mr. Baring  would look rather to the manner in which this Bill was likely to work than to any general principle which it might involve. He had inquired into this subject, and found that there were various opinions in different parts of the country. Some of the witnesses who had been examined before the Committee, had spoken most favourably of the measure, whilst others disapproved of its practical results. He entertained no doubt of its beneficial effects in parishes that were purely agricultural, and where no other species of labour was going on; but he considered it oppressive to make small tradespeople pay for labour which they did not want. He should have been glad if his hon. friend had not for the present pressed this Bill until the Poor Law Amendment Bill had been disposed of, and it could be known what was done with that important measure. He could have wished, that his hon. friend had waited to see how that Bill would work, and, in the next Session, the measure might be more fitly introduced as an auxiliary, if it should be deemed requisite. He had undoubtedly found that, in some parishes in his own immediate neighbourhood, the Labour Rate Bill operated
 153
 Mr. Halcombe  would support the Bill of the hon. Baronet. It was intended to be in operation only for one year, and would enable the farmers to get over the winter. He did not think it would in any respect interfere with the Bill of the noble Lord.
 Mr. Handley  was of opinion, that this Bill would be found productive of great advantage to the occupiers of land, as it would give them something for those rates for which they now got nothing. After the concurrent evidence given by every country Gentleman who had yet addressed the House, he did hope that the House would grant this Bill as a boon to the agricultural interest.
 Sir George Strickland  supported the Amendment. This measure had been admitted by many to be bad in principle,
 156
 Mr. Curteis  said, that after what had fallen from the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he should feel it his duty to vote against this measure. It was quite true, that this measure was desired in West Sussex; but with regard to East Sussex, he would state that the same anxiety did not exist for such a measure. He agreed with the noble Lord that this measure should now be merged in the greater measure which had been introduced for the reformation of the administration of the Poor-laws.
 Mr. Hill  rose to second the Motion. Anxious as he was to uphold the system of our jurisprudence, and the laws as administered under our happy Constitution, as the best altogether in the civilized world, he was, nevertheless, bound to confess, that he had seen more than two or three cases of verdicts of guilty in felony, in which the verdicts were not borne out by the evidence; and this expressly because the prisoner had not had the benefit of a speech from his Counsel—in other words, the innocent might be deprived of protection by the present practice of our Criminal-laws. It was to be observed, that if we were right in this anomaly, we were right in direct opposition to the practice of all civilized Europe, and even that of our colonies on the other side of the Atlantic. The origin of our present practice was to be found in the same system which adjudicated men to death on paper depositions, without confronting the prisoner with the witnesses
 161
 Sir George Strickland  was confident, that many more Sessions could not pass, before the present anomalous state of the law with regard to criminal trials must be corrected. He had often heard, with most painful feelings, that part of criminal proceedings in which prisoners were denied the right of reply by their Counsel, and had always determined, if ever it was in his power, to give his support to that alteration of the law now proposed. Even in Italy, where no other semblance of a fair trial was given, the prisoner had the right to have his Counsel to plead for him, before Courts as ill constituted, he would admit, as any in the most despotic countries of Europe.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the noble Lord had condensed in his speech so much good sense and practical wisdom on this subject, that it might appear to the House unnecessary for him to offer any further observations in support of the same views. He might, however, be permitted to make one or two remarks. The hon. and learned Sergeant who had preceded him had opposed the Bill upon an economical consideration of the county rates, and other matters totally foreign to the spirit of the question. He had also opposed the allowing of Counsel to prisoners on charges of felony, on account of the inexperience and indiscretions of young Counsel. He would say, that he had known many old Counsel who were just as indiscreet as their juniors. The fact was, that the present mode of proceeding in our Criminal Courts was anything but the fair and straightforward course which it should be. The Criminal Code itself was too cruel and bloody; that was a great evil, which it was endeavoured to counteract by throwing all sorts of impediments in its way, to prevent the discovery of the truth. Criminals and witnesses were continually cautioned against saying anything that could possibly implicate themselves; and time even given them, to reflect upon what they should say, lest they should unwittingly let an unwelcome truth escape. The hon. and learned Sergeant had said, that the prosecuting Counsel generally confined himself to a calm and circumstantial account of the facts of the case, and that the Judge was to watch over the interests of the prisoner. That was a very plausible statement, indeed; but was it borne out by experience? He, in the course of his practice, had seen great mischief and great injustice result from an exaggerated statement made by the Counsel for the prosecution, but he had seen much more harm and hardship result to the unfortunate prisoner from an assumed moderation on the part of his accuser. In Ireland, the Crown prosecutor, not uncommonly, came down and addressed violent harangues to the Jury, calculated to rouse their fears and their prejudices against the prisoners whom they were called upon to try. "Gentlemen of the Jury," it would be said, "the Crown has sent down this Special Commission for your own protection. Will you not protect yourselves?" which meant, as he understood it, "Will you be pleased to hang the prisoners at my request?" No weight ought to be attached to the objection, that allowing Counsel to
 165 166
 Mr. Divett  said, that as nobody had yet moved, he would move, as an Amendment, that this Bill be read a second time this day six months. His reason for doing so was, that he considered it to be bad in principle, and likely to prove worse when reduced to practice. It confined in parishes a portion of labourers who could not be productively employed within them, and compelled individuals who did not want labour, and received no benefit from it, to employ their capital in support of it. The Labour-rate might have produced some benefit in a few parishes, but he believed that that benefit was more apparent than real, and that it would be productive of much future evil.
 Mr. Goulburn  opposed the Bill. From any thing he had heard or seen, he had no reason to believe, that in any case quoted, the verdict would have been different from what it was, had the prisoners been allowed to have Counsel. If the Counsel for the prosecution was allowed to reply, there would be an absence of the calmness at present prevailing in criminal trials, and passion and prejudice would appear there. He believed, too, that it would tend to make Judges partizans. He conceived, therefore, that the present system was better calculated to elicit truth, than the one proposed by the Bill. It was on that account, too, better calculated to ensure an impartial administration of justice, and he therefore should vote against the Bill.
 Mr. Warburton  seconded the Amendment. It was preposterous to introduce a Bill like this, which was at best a mere palliative, when there was before the House a comprehensive Bill for the Amendment of the Poor-laws founded on the best principles. This Bill was founded on the worst principles; and if there was no other
 154
 Mr. Leech , as a practical agriculturist, could speak to the beneficial effects of the former Labour-rate Act, the renewal of which merited the approbation of the House. The Bill was only a permissive
 150
 Mr. Poulter  was not disposed to place much reliance on the conviction entertained by Counsel engaged in the defence of prisoners, that their clients, though convicted, were innocent. The real question
 162
 Mr. Wilks  said, that if the Poor-law Bill had been passed and was in operation, producing the effects that were anticipated from it, the argument of the hon. Member who had last spoken might be a forcible one, but not till then; he was not disposed, when he found such concurrent testimony in favour of the practical effects of this measure, to cast it away either in favour of the theories of hon. Members, or in favour of the measure brought forward by the noble Lord. He supported this as a temporary measure, preparatory rather than detrimental to the measure brought forward by the noble Lord with regard to the administration of the Poor-laws.
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  was understood to say, that the Bill would be subversive of the benefits which were likely to accrue from the noble Lord's Bill for the Amendment of the Poor Laws. At any rate, the present Bill ought not to be passed till the Poor Law Amendment Bill had been carried into execution. The Labour-rate was nothing but the allowance system in disguise, and he felt compelled to give his opposition to this Bill.
 Mr. Robert Grant  said, that it was im-
 167 168
 Mr. Robert Palmer  considered it very desirable that the inhabitants of a parish should be compelled to pay the sums which they might agree to pay, for it was well
 152
 Mr. Slaney  thought the Bill would be prejudicial in its effects. There was this difference between the Bill passed in the last Session and the present Bill—that whereas the former measure required, previous to its application to any parish, that the consent of three-fourths of the rate-payers should be obtained, the Bill now under consideration made the consent of three-fourths of those in vestry assembled only requisite; thus putting it in the power of a few busybodies in a parish to force the measure upon their fellow ratepayers. In the former Bill, a clause was introduced, providing that the measure should not apply to any parish in which the Poor-rates were not above 5 s 151
 Mr. Sergeant Spankie  said, that it was generally admitted, on all hands, that justice was administered in a satisfactory and impartial manner in this country; and he could not see, that there was any practical ground for the change now proposed to be introduced, inasmuch as there was no practical abuse to be remedied. He thought it would be found, that, if Counsel were allowed to address the Jury in defence of prisoners on charges of felony, it would be the junior Counsel, who would generally be employed in their cause, who, by their injudicious manner of proceeding, might often do more harm than good to their clients. They would naturally endeavour to put the points of their case in the strongest light, and the Counsel for the prosecution would be compelled to combat them by all the eloquence and ingenuity he could com-
 163
 Mr. Estcourt  said, that as the Bill of the noble Lord was not to come into operation till the next spring, no improvement in the condition of the poor could be expected during the next winter. If, therefore, the noble Lord had thought this a good measure, though founded on principles which he considered incorrect, before a general measure for the improvement of the Poor-laws was introduced, he ought to think it a good measure till that general measure came into practical operation. This Bill was only to have force for one year, and therefore he called upon the noble Lord not to abandon it until his own bill became practically the law. It appeared from the Agricultural Report that the farmers did not at present employ all the labour that was practically for the due cultivation of the soil—they only employed that quantity of labour which was just sufficient to keep it in a state of inferior cultivation. There were few parts of the country in which the surplus labour, as it was called, could not be beneficially employed in the cultivation of the soil. By the Poor-laws, as now administered, the farmers were compelled to maintain the surplus labourers without employment. By the present Bill the labourers would be kept in employment for their maintenance, and he would ask, was not that in itself an advantage? He admitted, that the principles of this Bill were not correct; but the state of the country was such, that the passing of this Bill was likely to prove a valuable auxiliary to the noble Lord's Bill during the ensuing winter.
 Mr. Hodges  supported the Bill. If he considered it likely to embarrass the noble Lord's Poor-laws' Amendment Bill, he should not give it his support, as he was quite sure that that Bill would have embarrassments enough of its own to contend with. He thought that this Bill would act beneficially in smoothing the way for the operation of that Bill, and he should therefore give it his support.
 Mr. Ewart  rose to move the second reading of the Prisoners' Counsel Bill. As the subject had, on former occasions, been repeatedly before the public, it would not be necessary for him to trespass on its attention at any length. It was a fact which he wished to press on the attention of the House, that England stood alone, with one solitary exception in the civilized world, in her refusal to allow prisoners the assistance of Counsel. In Scotland, France, Italy, Germany, and the United States of America, prisoners were all defended by counsel; and none of those inconveniences which it was often alleged would be the necessary consequences of adopting the
 159 160 "non debet actori dicere quod non reo permittitur." ad verecundiam
 Sir Charles Burrell  briefly replied; contending that the provisions of the Bill applied to clergymen and declaring that the arguments of the opponents of the measure had been already so triumphantly defeated, that it was unnecessary for him to go again over the same ground.
 Sir Charles Burrell  having moved the Order of the Day for the second reading of the Labourer's Employment Bill, expressed his sincere regret at finding that it was likely to be opposed. He hoped he should be able to induce the noble Lord opposite to allow the Bill to be read a second time, and committed, as he thought the most convenient course to pursue would be to
 148 l s d l s d.; l s d l 149 Sir,—I send you the expenses of the parish of Pulborough, in the county of Sussex, for one year. You will see, that 318 l l l l I am, Sir, with great respect, Your obedient humble servant, J. AUSTIN, Rector. Pulborough, Dec. 14,1826.
 Mr. Pollock  was obliged, from a sense of duty, to vote for the second reading of the Bill. Under the present practice, many who were guilty escaped, and many who were innocent were convicted. Now, if Counsel were allowed to speak on both sides instead of one only, more guilty persons would be convicted; and what was more important, more innocent persons would escape, because they would have better means of defending themselves. He recollected, when he was young at the Bar, being present at a trial in the country, in which the prisoner was charged with an offence which, of all others, required that the accused should have the assistance of Counsel: it was a trial for rape. The man was found guilty and sentenced to death; but so convinced was he of the man's innocence, that he intended the next day to have started for London, in order humbly to lay his opinion before the Secretary of State; but he was prevented by the other Judge of Assize respiting the condemned, whose punishment was first commuted to transportation, then to two years' imprisonment, and ultimately he was set at large. There was another case, at the trial of which he was also present, although not concerned in it as Counsel, more than in the first case, in which the accused was found guilty of murder, and was executed in forty-eight hours. He was satisfied, that that man was innocent, and that his innocence would have been established had he had the means of making a defence. The opinion was not his alone; for he had, not many days back, mentioned the circumstance to one who was at the time Counsel on the Northern Circuit, and who was now one of the Judges of the land; and that Judge said, that he had a perfect recollection of the circumstance, and that it was the opinion of the whole Bar, that the man was wrongfully convicted and executed. He recollected, on another occasion, four men were tried be-
 169
 Sir Harry Verney  said, that there were many parishes where there was but little occasion for labour, and it would be hard to compel small annuitants and others who did not require labourers to pay for their support. He was, however, favourable to the general principle of the Bill, but he felt some difficulty as to how he should vote, lest this measure should in any degree clash with the Poor Law Amendment Bill which the noble Lord near him had introduced, and which he hoped to see brought to a successful issue.
 Lord Althorp  said, that this Bill was founded upon incorrect principles. He had formerly been ready to agree to it, incorrect as its principles were, because there was no effectual measure before Parliament for the Amendment of the Poor-laws. Until such a measure was introduced, he had always felt that they must adopt palliatives, to mitigate the evils of the present system. But now an efficient remedy was introduced; and he felt, that the Legislature would act more wisely by adopting that measure, which was correct in principle and complete in itself, than by adopting a palliative which was incorrect in principle and only partial in its operation. By this Bill all the rate-payers of the parish were compelled to employ all the labourers in that parish, whether they were desirous of doing so or not. They were compelled, too, to employ labour which could not produce them any return, because in the words of the Bill, it was "labour more than was wanted for the cultivation of the soil." He contended that this Bill was also objectionable on account of its having a rapid tendency to produce a maximum of wages. He admitted that in many parishes where this measure had been tried the amount of Poor-rates had apparently diminished. He said apparently, for the amount was not really less, if the parishioners were paying more for labour in another shape. The effect was the same upon them, whether their money was paid in the shape of Poor-rates or in the shape of increased wages for labour which yielded them no return. As far as labourers were concerned, this Bill injured the independent and industrious portion of them by giving them no advantage over the indolent and profligate portion; on the contrary, it took from the steady and hardworking man the benefit which he had hitherto derived from
 155
 Lord Althorp  said, he had given this subject much consideration, and he thought some change was desirable. It appeared to him, that the arguments which had been urged against allowing Counsel to prisoners in cases of felony would equally apply against permitting Counsel to defendants in cases of misdemeanour. In the course of his experience and observation, which had been confined to the more trifling class of felonies, he had felt, that it was exceedingly painful to hear Counsel address the Jury against a prisoner, who was denied the privilege of being heard by Counsel in reply. What they had to consider was, not whether the change proposed would prove to the advantage of the prisoner, but whether it was calculated to lead to a fuller and more perfect development of the truth, and a more certain administration of justice. They should consider whether the truth was likely to be, in all instances, fairly elicited by a system under which cases could be put strongly on the one side, without allowing an answer to be given by equal talents from the opposite side. He would particularly instance the cases depending on circumstantial evidence, in which Counsel for the prosecution had, in their address to the Jury, to make out the necessary chain of evidence; and it appeared to him, that the privilege of reply on behalf of the prisoner ought to be allowed, in order that an opportunity might be afforded of showing in what respect improper inferences might have been drawn. Entertaining these views, he hoped the House would allow the Bill to go into a Committee, that they might examine if in detail, and see whether the objections urged against it, some of them being of weight, might not be removed.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that the very reasons assigned by the hon. Member for supporting this measure appeared to him arguments for opposing it. The hon. Member asked the House to agree to this measure because the measure of his noble friend (Lord Althorp) was not passed. Surely, seeing that that greater and more comprehensive measure was in course of being passed, it was unnecessary, indeed it would be mischievous, to adopt a measure like this, of an avowedly temporary nature, and which would, in fact, stand in the way of the beneficial effects to be anticipated from the Poor-laws Amendment Bill. One half, at least, of the hon.
 157 158
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, never was the saying that one story was good until
 176 177
 Mr. Baring  admitted, that it might be inexpedient to move formally for the opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown on the subject. He must say, however, that the British fisheries, whether on the coast of Newfoundland or in the Channel, had not the attention paid to them which they formerly received; and they were in a very declining condition. Now, this was a very important consideration; the fisheries being highly valuable, not only as a branch of our trade, but as a nursery for our seamen. He could not help calling the particular attention of his Majesty's Government to the condition of the British fisheries on the coast of Guernsey and Jersey. In former times the interests of those fisheries had experienced the peculiar care of Government, and were considered among those interests which it was their especial duty to protect. He was sorry to say, that was not the case at
 185
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  supported the Motion. He considered, that the Reciprocity Act had been most injurious to our commercial interests; since it passed, our trading position had been altogether changed. In the carrying trade, the advantage we had formerly enjoyed over Prussia had been transferred to that country. Most of the ships we had formerly employed in the Baltic had been thrown out of that trade, and being put on the coasting and colonial trade, these two latter branches had become overstocked. He thought there was much to complain of in the conduct of Prussia; not only had that country raised the duties on British manufactures herself, but she had induced other German Powers to imitate her example; and, influenced by Prussia, Hanover and Brunswick, as he had just heard, were about to adopt the same course. As to the United States, that Power was well aware that it was to her interest to keep up their cotton trade with us under any circumstances being as well aware as we were that from the increasing growth of cotton in South America, India, and Egypt, we should at no distant period be quite independent of the United States for our supply of cotton. It was absolutely necessary that some protection should be afforded to the shipping interest. He had lately presented a petition, signed by several hundreds of seamen at Sunderland, stating that from the bad state of the shipping trade they were in the utmost distress; had been obliged, sometimes without success, to apply to the parish for food, and that many of them, after fighting the battles of their country, were obliged to cleanse the streets. Another letter he had had from a shipowner, stated that the writer, finding it cheaper, under existing circumstances, to employ Prussian shipping than
 227
 Mr. Ruthven  insisted upon his right to speak on a question in which his constituency were deeply interested; and more especially as it was one in which Irish Members could not be taunted with taking up views merely local, as the question was completely imperial. As it was so late, he would content himself with observing, that the hon. member for Middlesex should not grudge Ireland the little advantage she derived from the provision trade, when her shipping was no more than 137,000 tons.
 Colonel Conolly  thought, that the rights of the poor had been most sedulously and vigilantly attended to by the Chairman of the Committee, who had made a clear and able statement to the House. He should, therefore, give the Bill his most cordial support.
 Major Beauclerk  knew, from his own experience, that many enclosures which had taken place in the counties of Surrey and Sussex had turned out anything but beneficial to the poor. Indeed, many of them to his knowledge had been destructive to the comforts, the pleasures, and the amusements of the poor. The clause read by the hon. member for Ox-
 178
 Mr. Aaron Chapman  thought, that the hourly increasing strength of the United States as a maritime power required the deepest consideration. He had himself heard the first partner in the first commercial house in England declare, that the United States were twenty years in advance of this country in the art of shipbuilding. The distress and difficulties with which British shipowners had at the present moment to contend was admitted by the right hon. Gentleman; but no specific plan of relief was proposed by him. Surely that was not what the country had a right to expect from the executive Government, responsible as that Government was, to the nation at large for the faithful and effective administration of its affairs. Nothing, in his opinion, could be more evident than the decline of British shipping and the advance of that of the United States. No one in the habit of reading the messages addressed to Congress by the American President, but must remember the frequency of his allusions to the extent of their commercial marine. His Majesty, who took a warm interest in all that related to the naval strength of England, would, if he could, have been most prompt to advert to such an object of national security and triumph as the prosperity of the shipping; but never was there to be found in any of the speeches from the Throne the remotest allusion to anything of the sort. In whatever point of view he looked at the Motion brought forward by the hon. member for Tynemouth, he could but regard it as well-timed and judicious: it should therefore, have his cordial support.
 Mr. Shaw Lefevre  hoped he should never live to see the day when the interests of the poor would not meet with an equal consideration from that House with those of any other class. So far from the present Bill being any infringement of the rights of the poor, the promoters of the measure had endeavoured by every means in their power to better the condition of the poor, and it was upon this ground that he gave the Bill his support. The hon. Member referred to the evidence at some length to establish his case, and concluded by expressing a hope that the House would allow the Bill to pass.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, he was sure, that neither the hon. Mover, nor any other hon. Gentleman who had witnessed the attention with which the hon. Member was heard throughout his speech, would be disposed to say, that the important subject on which he spoke at such length had been treated with disrespect by that House. However much the hon. Gentleman might differ from him, and from those who sat on his side of the House with respect to this Act—the hon. Gentleman must admit, that the claims of the great and important interest of which he had spoken—an interest which was, at the same time, the foundation of our naval defence and the basis of the welfare and prosperity of our national commerce, had never been treated otherwise than with anxious and deep attention. He could assure the hon. Gentleman, that, however he, and those who viewed the subject as he did, might differ from him, both he and they took just as deep an interest, and were just as anxious, concerning the shipping interests of the country, and as desirous to benefit that interest in every possible way consistently with the national welfare, as either the hon. Gentleman or those who acted with him could be. The only complaint he had to make against the hon. Gentleman was, that, in giving notice of his Motion, he had so closely defined his object, that no one could suppose it would enable him to enter into the—certainly very able—but very general, statement which the hon. Member had laid before the House, involving numerous questions which had little or no relation to the actual subject under consideration. He could not say, indeed, that the hon. Gentleman, in taking so excursive a course, had proved that he was well acquainted with the operations of this Act, and the hon. Gentleman had probably wandered into extraneous matter to conceal his want of accurate knowledge. Not anticipating so extensive a line of argument, he was not prepared to follow the hon. Gentleman through all the various topics on which he had touched; but, although it was not in
 212 213 214 G. F. Young: 215 216 217 218 219 220 221 222 
 
 Tons. 
 British 12,381,000 
 Foreign 4,055,000 
 
 British 15,049,000 
 Foreign 5,064,000 223 224 225 226
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  did not rise to oppose the Motion, but to express his hope, that the hon. Member would be induced to withdraw it; for although it might be expedient to take the opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown on the subject, it was not necessary, and it might be inconvenient, to take it in the formal manner proposed by the hon. Member. He wished he could agree with the view of the subject taken by the hon. Gentleman, but, having attended to it at various times, and especially when the question was brought forward by his amiable and lamented friend Mr. Villiers, he was bound to say that, although he hoped we might be able to establish our claim, he had not the confidence in the subject which the hon. Member expressed. The hon. Member had referred to treaties, but he ought, also, to refer to the declarations by which those treaties were accompanied; for it was only by such a context that the matter could be determined. The House was probably aware, that this subject had been under the consideration of successive Governments in this country since the year 1783, and that various opinions had been entertained respecting it. Nay, on one occasion, two Members of an Administration, one in the other House, and one in the House of Commons, expressed opinions directly opposite to one another upon it. He mentioned this, to show that the subject was one involved in considerable difficulty. The opinion on which he confessed he should be disposed principally to rely, was that of Mr. Huskisson, to whom, during the short time that he
 184
 Mr. Littleton  said, he should, at the outset make an admission to his hon. friend that the case of the Barony of Delvin was a weaker case for proclamation than many other cases; he had never concealed that opinion; but he did think that the Lord-lieutenant in Council exercised, nevertheless, a sound judgment in including it. The state of the county of Westmeath had been extremely bad for a long course of time; ever since he had been in office his attention had been forcibly attracted to the numerous outrages committed in it. He was, therefore, not surprised that the Magistrates should have been under the necessity of applying for a proclamation to place those Baronies under the provisions of the Coercion Act. On the 26th of April the Magistrates, who had been convened by previous advertisement, assembled, to the number of thirty-seven, at Mullingar; only eighteen in the whole county being absent; and when it was considered how many were necessarily prevented from attending by age, infirmity, or accident, it would be admitted, that there was, certainly, a very full attendance. They passed a resolution unanimously, without one dissentient voice, calling on the Lord-lieutenant to place three Baronies of the county under the provisions of the Coercion Act. Their representation was to the effect, that it was their unanimous and decided opinion, that the existing laws were not sufficient to meet the existing state of crime and outrage; and they therefore submitted to the Lord-lieutenant that the provisions of the Acts 3 and 4 of William 4th, c. 4th, might be put into operation in those parts where crime was most conspicuous; and for that purpose they suggested that it should be so in the Barony of Delvin, and the two other baronies in question. His hon. friend complained of the great haste which the Lord-lieutenant and Council evinced in following up that Representation, by immediately issuing a proclamation. He
 239
 Mr. Robinson  trusted, that his Majesty's Government would not allow the question to go on in a doubtful state for an indefinite period; for, although he deprecated a quarrel with France upon it, he was anxious that the matter should be ultimately settled. He trusted, therefore, that, before the next Session of Parliament, something might be done finally to settle the question.
 Mr. George Robinson  was sorry to occupy time upon a subject interesting to comparatively few; but it was necessary for him to state briefly the grounds on which he rested the proposition which he meant to submit to the House. The treaties with France respecting the Newfoundland Fisheries commenced with that of Utrecht, in 1703, and a clause upon the subject had been continued in all of them, down to that of Paris in 1814. By this clause a right was conceded to France of fishing on a part of the coast of Newfoundland, and the question to which he wished to direct the attention of the Law-officers of the Crown was, whether France, by the terms of the Treaty of Utrecht (for no others were important) had an exclusive right to that fishery, or only in participation with this country. Our fishermen who had employed themselves on the coast
 181 182 183
 Mr. Robinson,  who spoke amidst interruption from cries of question, maintained that the arguments of the hon. member for Middlesex were perfect fallacies. If the speeches of that hon. Member, and of the right hon. Gentleman opposite, were to be taken as answers to his hon. friend, the member for Tynemouth, the shipping interest might sit down in hopelessness and despair. He had not expected the taunt of the hon. member for Middlesex, that the shipowners, having refused the Repeal of the Timber-duties, should not now be heard to complain. They felt that they could derive no advantage whatever from a mere change of duties, which might at the same time deprive them of the carriage of the colonial timber. He admitted most candidly that much had been said by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, which operated materially against the assumed argument of his hon. friend near him, who was unjustly charged with advocating the shipping interest at the expense of the other interests of the country. Why, the shipping interest was the only interest in the country which was placed on disadvantageous terms, with the most onerous restrictions, and without any protection whatever. The hon. member for Middlesex spoke of the Corn-laws; but that monopoly was kept up, not for the shipping, but for the agricultural interest. The hon. Member had referred to the state of the American tonnage, and stated that, within the last few years, it had decreased 400,000 tons. There could be no doubt this was a great blunder,—a very natural one for the hon. Member to fall into, thereby mistaking an actual increase for a decrease. This was a question, he was ready to admit, of considerable difficulty; but he would support the Motion of the hon. member for Tynemouth, because he denied the right and power of the Crown to form treaties of commerce with foreign powers independent of that House. He wished Parliament to be the judge on such an occasion. Sure he was, if this Motion was negatived, and if there was no assurance from Government that some other remedial measures were about to be proposed, in order to relieve the shipping interest of the country, that most important branch of the commercial greatness of the country would soon dwindle into insignificance, if not perish in ruin.
 Mr. George F. Young  rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice, for leave for "a Bill to repeal the Act 4th George 4th, c. 77, commonly termed the Reciprocity of Duties' Act,' with the view of restoring to Parliament its constitutional control over all treaties with foreign Powers, involving the commercial interests of the British community." He could assure the House, that it was not his wish to occupy, by any Motion of a speculative character, that time which he fully admitted ought to be devoted as much as possible to practical measures. His object was purely practical; and if the House would give him its indulgence, he would endeavour to prove, that the Reciprocity of Duties Act, as it was called, ought not to remain longer on our Statute-book, that even the present session should not be allowed to pass without repealing it, which would afford a proof of the anxiety of Parliament to redress the grievances of the people. In urging this on the attention of the House, he would take up as little of their time as possible. He felt his own inadequacy to the task which he had undertaken; but though he did, he was urged to it by a sense of duty, from which it would be weakness or affectation to shrink. He had formed his opinions of this Act on long experience and careful inquiry; yet he owned, that he came to the task with a full confidence of his incapability to impress upon the House his own firm conviction of its injustice and impolicy. The subject had occupied the attention of the greatest orators, writers, and statesmen, of our times. The Reciprocity of Duties Act gave the Crown the power of contracting Treaties with foreign Powers, by which their vessels might be admitted in certain trades, and on certain conditions, to enter our ports on an equality with our own vessels. The first Treaty which was contracted under this Act, was that with Prussia, concluded on April 2nd, 1824, which was to continue in force for ten years; and, after that, either of the contracting parties might put an
 186 P. Thomson: Hansard's Parliamentary Debates, 187 188 s. l. s. 189 l. l. 190 l. l. s. s. s. s. 191 192 s. s. s. 193 * Hansard (new series),vol. ix. p. 796 194 l. s. d. s. d. 195 196 197 l. l., l. l. 198 
 
 Tons. 
 In 1817, the tonnage belonging to the British empire was, per returns 2,664,986 
 Ships built up to 1826 1,189,322 
 If, therefore, no losses had occurred, the tonnage at the end of 1826 would have been 3,854,308 
 But, according to the returns, it was 2,635,644 
 Thus remained the aggregate loss written off during these ten years 1,218,664 
 Forming an average of 121,866 
 On registering ships  do novo really 8,463 
 Making the real annual losses to be, tons 130,329 
 In 1827 it appeared the returns made the tonnage of the British Empire to be 2,460,500 
 Since then there had been built 624,226 
 Then in 1832, if no losses had occurred, the tonnage would have been 3,084,726 
 Average losses for five years, at 130,329 tons annually 655,645 
 Showing the real tonnage in 1832 to be 2,433,081 
 Instead of 2,618,068 
 Leaving a fresh accumulation on the registry of tonnage actually extinct of 184,987 
 Mem.—The tonnage in 1227 of 2,460,500 
 And that for 1832, corrected as above of 2,433,081 199 l., l. l., l. l. 200 l. l. l. l., l. 201 l.; ;l.; l. 202 203 204 205 206 207 208 209 non sequitur, 210 quid pro quo. l. 211
 Sir Henry Hardinge  having been a member of the Committee, was desirous to offer a few observations. As a proof of the disinterestedness of the promoters of the Bill, he would inform the House, that one of the counsel against the Bill, who appeared for two commoners only, admitted, that he had no reason to complain of any want of liberality towards the poor on the part of its promoters; on the contrary, their generosity to the poor had been so much more than ordinary, that his clients were compelled to complain that they were damnified by it. Great doubts existing in the minds of the Committee with regard to what course ought to be pursued, and very conflicting testimony having been given before the Committee on both sides—indeed there was a strong party feeling on the subject—it was thought expedient, with the consent of both parties, to send down a person of known character and respectability, on whose testimony the Committee could rely. On his report, the Committee came to the decision, that the preamble was proved, that "it was advantageous to the poor of Kingsclere, that this enclosure should be made." Under these circumstances, what was the Committee to do? Every proposition made by the opponents of the Bill was assented to; ten-elevenths of the property were in favour of the Bill. Forty-three rate-payers and 286 cottagers had petitioned for this enclosure. They lived in the village, which was three miles distant from the common. They had an equal right to the common with those parties who lived upon its confines, although they were unable to make the same use of it, from the distance at which they were located from it. By a clause in the Bill, seventy-five acres in the immediate neighbourhood of the village were to be given to these commoners in exchange for the rights which they now possessed, but of which they were unable to avail them-
 179
 Mr. Blackburne  had never seen such a clause introduced in any Bill. He was bound to say, that if this clause formed a part of the principle of the Bill, he could never consent to it; for it either gave to some one a right he ought not to possess, or it took away from the poor man a right which he already possessed; inasmuch as if he had exercised his right of common for twenty years, he had as much title to it as if he had exercised it for 1,000. If he was to go before a Commissioner and prove he had exercised a right of common for twenty years, to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, he had a right to have the land given to him in fee. If the poor of the parish, were willing to abandon the
 180
 Mr. Walter  said, he had thought it his duty to take the greatest pains possible to arrive at a just conclusion, and, in addition to the evidence given before the Committee, he had endeavoured to procure the best professional opinion, upon actual inspection, and the result of his inquiry was, that there was no way of compensating the poor generally for any loss of this common by any addition to the allotments of individuals. The Hon. Member entered into a variety of details as to the expense of the inclosure, as to the advantages to the persons concerned, and then proceeded. The expense would be enormous; the commissioner stated it at 2 l. l. l. 175
 Mr. Hume  contended, that the argu-
 232 233
 Mr. Pease  opposed the Bill. He had more than doubts as to the benefit to be derived from the enclosure of this common, for he had been informed by a witness of good authority, who had not, however, been examined before the Committee—that seventeen acres of this common had on a former occasion been enclosed by the parish, and that they had subsequently been abandoned.
 Mr. Godson  had one objection to this Bill, which, in his opinion, would be fatal to it. By the clause which had been read by the hon. member for Oxford, and which, as a lawyer, he must denounce as one of the most extraordinary clauses he had ever heard of, these poor cottagers, who now possessed as good a right from possession to their cottages and to their commonage as any Member in that House had to his estate, were deprived of that right? Why should the House sanction the principle, that possession, the best legal right, should be taken away, and these parties should be put to the expense of proving their right to the very party who was opposed to them? Was there to be one law for the rich, and another law for the poor—a law for a man of 100 l., l.?
 Mr. Ingham  supported the Motion, and contended that what were called the reciprocity treaties were in fact treaties for putting down the navigation of that country which was once unrivalled in its maritime strength.
 Dr. Lushington  said, that if he thought the proposition of the hon. member for Tynemouth could produce the slightest beneficial consequence to the shipping interest, he should feel it his duty, representing the constituency he did, to give it his sincere support. He was, however, firmly convinced, that the reciprocity treaties had not produced the distress of which the shipowners complained, and that the repeal of the Act authorising them would not afford the slightest alleviation to the distress complained of. He could not consent to the adoption of a measure which he conscientiously believed would endanger the great commercial interests of the country, without offering any prospect of diminishing the difficulties or of restoring the prosperity of navigation. England could make fiscal regulations for the government of her home commerce, and that she had done to the fullest extent the shipowners could desire, but she could not make regulation for
 229 230
 Mr. Gisborne  said, although the present Bill was strictly a private Bill, it was one of great public importance. If the opposition to this Bill should succeed, then there would be an end of all enclosures. He knew that persons who were friends to emigration had always had it thrown in their teeth that there were 3,000,000 or 4,000,000 acres of waste land in this country which ought to be put into a state of cultivation before the inhabitants of this country were sent out of the country to cultivate other lands. Having lived the greater part of his life near two commons consisting of land of the description mentioned in the Bill, and being well acquainted with commons and those who usually lived upon them, he could state from actual observation, that they lived a very vagrant sort of life, more like gipsies than regular labourers, and, in every instance which he had known, these poor creatures had been benefited by being compelled to adopt more regular habits. He was of opinion a great deal more had been done for these poor labourers than they could have expected if the present Bill had been suffered to take its ordinary course. The ground on which he should vote was, that he could not conceive a single case of inclosure that could take place throughout the kingdom if the objections urged by the opponents of this Bill should meet with the approbation of the House.
 Mr. Montague L. Chapman  felt most anxious to ascertain what further information, besides that already laid on the Table, induced the Irish Secretary to persevere in continuing the application of the coercive measure, to a county which certainly that statement did not represent as being in any fearful or alarming state. To lead to this exposition on the part of the Secretary, it would be necessary for him to enter into some details. Some short time since a meeting of Magistrates numer-
 236 237 s. d., 238
 Mr. Hutt  thought, that the hon. Member had entirely failed to show that the evils he complained of had been produced by the reciprocity system. The hon. Member bad represented the whole trade of British shipowners as having fallen away: that while foreigners were rolling in wealth, the shipping interest of Britain was in a state of the most dreadful poverty and was declining into absolute decay. Much of this statement appeared to him to belong to that species of hyperbole and extravagance which people suffering distress but too often indulged in. No doubt, the shipowners' property had suffered depreciation, but so had the property of mill-owners, of manufacturers, and of every person who had fixed capital. The hon. member for Tynemouth had asserted that the tonnage of foreign shipping had increased, whilst that of British shipping had decreased. He had an official document in his hand, which completely disproved that statement. From that it appeared, that since the reciprocity treaties had been entered into, the quantity of British tonnage had increased in a considerable ratio over the foreign tonnage. But they had what was, perhaps, more convincing than even figures, and that was the conduct of the shipowners themselves, to prove that navigation was not a peculiarly losing trade. It was impossible to suppose, that the shipowners would go on investing fresh capital in their business, unless they found it profitable so to do. A part of the evidence given by Mr. Ewart, of Liverpool, was particularly illustrative of this view of the question. That Gentleman stated, in answer to a question as to whether the shipping trade had been profitable during the last seven years, that if the shipowner calculated in each year what his ship originally cost him, it would appear that he was losing each year; but if he merely calculated what ships might be bought for now in each year, the profits of the year would appear to be sufficient. On being asked whether he would invest capital in navigation, he said, that he would not, because he did not understand the business, but that he saw many very clever and rich
 228
 Lord Sandon  supported the Motion, and contended that in our discussions with Foreign Powers, respecting commercial interests, the question was one merely of policy, of bargain and sale. Other countries had no right to receive from us commercial advantages, unless they agreed to yield to us commercial advantages in return. He was inclined, therefore, to bring the matter back to the state in which it was before the Reciprocity of Duties Act was passed; and hereafter to proclaim to the world, that commercial arrangements with other Powers should be made the subject of special negotiation. Much, in the course of the present discussion, had been said of the advantage to the shipping interest which must arise from carrying into practice those principles of free trade and reciprocity which had been so much esteemed and advocated within the last few years. He thought there was but little value in setting what was called a good example; so far from following that practice, their aim should be to secure commercial advantages without committing themselves or making any concession antecedent to an equivalent benefit: for the ministers of foreign States ought to be armed with that ground for proposing charges which could alone be derived from the result of bargain and negotiation, not from what was called good example. Local prejudices were difficult to be overcome, and nations were like individuals, if they did not make good terms for themselves, they must lose in the affairs of life. It was vain to hope that the progress of liberal principles in politics would lead to liberality in trade; for the nation which enjoyed the greatest amount of political freedom was that which was the least liberal in matters of commerce. Had not other countries, instead of making any concessions, screwed up their commercial restrictions as high as possible? Look at the conduct of Prussia. Look at the conduct of America. In proportion as we had relaxed our commercial system, theirs had been rendered more rigorous. He should support the Motion of the hon. member for Tynemouth.
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  said, that it appeared to him that there was some ground for the objection of the hon. Baronet, but not to the extent that he supposed. As the Bill stood, the Commissioners would have the power of calling upon parishes to give up workhouses that were now adequate to their wants, and to
 314
 Mr. Wolryche Whitmore  expressed his surprise at the objection taken by his hon. friend (Sir Henry Willoughby) to the
 316
 Mr. Tower  said, he was surprised to hear the member for Birmingham say, that there were no complaints of the Poor-laws. This might be true of manufacturing districts, for they did not press so heavily upon the manufacturing as upon the agricultural interest, the former paying in the proportion of only one to twenty-two or twenty-five. He would oppose the Amendment because it tended to smother the Commissioners with two great a variety of work, and thus to impair their efficacy.
 Mr. Grote  thought that the clause did not bear the construction put on it by the hon. Baronet. It did not appear to him, however, that in cases of unions of parishes there was sufficient provision made for ensuring that the proportionate expenses of building the workhouse should be fairly assessed.
 Mr. Grote  trusted, that the powers of the Commissioners would not be crippled. If the efficiency of the measure was destroyed, the House would incur the odium of passing an unconstitutional measure, without having the consolation of being able to derive any benefit from it.
 Mr. Benett  contended, that the parish would have no effectual control over the erection of workhouses unless the clause were worded "and" with the consent, instead of "or" with the consent of the guardians of the poor. He had the strongest objection to a general workhouse system, and on that ground he would support the Amendment of the hon. Baronet.
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  agreed with the hon. member for Kent in the objections which he had taken to this clause. If passed in its present form, it would press with great hardness and severity upon those smaller parishes who at present had no workhouses at all, but who supported their poor at their own homes humanely and well. It would be extremely hard to compel those parishes, by uniting them to other and larger parishes, to contribute to the erection of workhouses that they did not want. The hon. member for Kent had referred to the failure that had attended the trial of this workhouse system in Suffolk, where it had existed for a long period. In corroboration of that opinion he
 318
 Mr. Robert Palmer  did not understand that the Bill gave the power to erect workhouses without the consent of the majority of the rate-payers of a parish. He wished to know from the noble Lord what it was the Bill proposed to do in that respect?
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  said, that he should support the proposition of the hon. Baronet because it tended to render the Bill absurd, although it was sufficiently absurd already. He objected to the Bill in every possible form, and thought it wrong in its object, wrong in its details, and wrong in its principles. The noble Lord had nine large volumes on the subject of the Poor Laws which no human being had ever read through, or indeed through any one of them. The noble Lord said, that his Bill was founded on the evidence contained in those volumes. This assertion reminded him of the story of a negro who had been sent by his master to count the pebbles on the shore, and who in a short time returned to his master and said, that there were 21,000,000,000. His master charged him with telling a falsehood, but the negro replied, "Go, master, and count them, and you will find I am correct." So it was with the noble Lord, who said that his Bill was founded on the facts contained in the evidence annexed to the Report, and told Members to go and read it. But he could tell the noble Lord that there was not a man in that House who could get through those volumes. The whole Bill was founded on the assumption of arbitrary power, and would, if carried, rob the poorer classes in the most shameful manner, indeed as much as was done by the Act by which a return was ordered to cash payments. Why did the noble Lord attempt to force such a Bill down the throats of the people? For his part he had never heard of any grievances growing out of the Poor-laws. The amount of the poor-rates paid at present was not greater than it was forty years ago, if they took into consideration the increase of population. At present the poor-rates of Birmingham amounted to nearly 40,000 l l 315
 Mr. Hodges  looked upon the measure as one for giving aid to the sick and employment to the able-bodied poor. Now, in this clause the Commissioners were directed to inquire into the expenses incurred for three previous years in the parishes about to be united for the support of the poor, and thereupon to strike an average for the whole. It appeared to him, that they should, in inquiring into such expense, make an analytical division of it, showing how much had been incurred for the support of the aged and impotent, and how much for the support of the able-bodied poor in each parish. It was for the able-bodied paupers that those workhouses were intended, and it was according to the expense that had been incurred in each separate parish for the support of that class of paupers that parishes, when united, should be rated towards the expense of erecting those workhouses. Unless an analysis were made of the mode in which the expenses connected with the support of the poor for the three previous years had been incurred much injustice might be done, for in some parishes little or none might have been laid out in the support of able-bodied poor, while, owing to law expenses and other accidental causes, the outlay in other respects might have been considerable. With regard to this incorporation of parishes for the erection of workhouses, it had been tried already in Suffolk for a period of fifty years, and instead of lessening it had increased the expenditure for the poor in the parishes that had adopted it. He thought the principle erroneous and mischievous.
 Mr. Cobbett  expressed his wish, that the House would inquire into the cause of the increase of pauperism before it passed this measure; it would thus ascertain whether it was necessary to pass it at all. If it were found that the evils had not increased, or that they were stationary, it might not be wise to legislate
 310 311
 Sir Henry Willoughby  said, that he felt great objection to this clause, as it gave to
 313 l
 Sir Henry Willoughby  said, there were not less than 220 parishes in which from one-fifth to one-twentieth of the population were said in the Report of the Commissioners to be out of employment during part of the year. Now he wished to know whether they could establish a workhouse system in parishes of this kind? He could mention one parish in which there were 100 out of work in summer and 120 in winter. Now were all those men who could not always procure work to be forced into workhouses? There were some parishes in which the single men would be quite sufficient to do all the work of the parish. The consequence in such parishes must be to send all the men with families into the workhouse, or else compel them to accept of very reduced wages. If the system in the workhouse was too stringent men would feel reluctance to enter it, and the effect would be to minimize wages in such a parish. It was well known that persons who once entered a workhouse seldom left it. He was checkmated for ever after. He was surprised to hear any man say, that this was a constitutional measure, and consistent with the Poor-laws of this country. The fact was, that the word "workhouse" did not once occur in the 43rd of Elizabeth. He would be quite satisfied if it could be shown to him that by a system of workhouses work could be procured for the redundant population.
 Sir James Scarlett  conceived, that the noble Lord, by adhering to that clause, was about to establish an absolute tyranny on the part of the Commissioners. These officers would not be responsible for any of their conduct under the Bill; no action could be brought against them; there would be no tribunal to try the case or to correct anything they might do. He for one did not think that the people of England were disposed to submit to such a power, either in the Poor-law Commissioners or in that House itself. If the Commissioners were under any obligation to make only legal orders, who was to judge of the legality unless it were some of the superior Law Courts? This would be the only remedy. An action must be brought in order to ascertain whether the orders of the Commissioners were legal; but by the Bill the Commissioners, it seemed, were to be relieved from all responsibility, The noble Lord was about to
 312 certiorari
 Sir Robert Peel  said, the orders of the Commissioners would contain matter of a mixed nature, being both legal and political; and he, therefore, did not think that they could properly be submitted to the consideration of his Majesty's Courts of Record. There was a great distinction between applying to a court of justice by writ of  certiorari
 Mr. Clay  wished to ask the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether it was not his intention to admit of appeals against the decisions of the Poor-law Commissioners being moved by writ of  certiorari
 Lord Althorp  did not see any importance in retaining that clause which gave the Commissioners the power of acting as justices of the peace; but with respect to the clause which provided that the orders framed by the Commissioners should not be removable by writ of  certiorari certiorari
 Lord Althorp  explained, that his objection to allowing the orders of the Commissioners to be removed by writ of  certiorari
 Lord Althorp  moved the Order of the Day for the Committee on the Poor Law Amendment Bill.
 Lord Althorp  understood the objection of the hon. Gentleman to the clause was, that it gave the Commissioners the power of taxing parishes to any extent. The ground for the assumption was, that the Commissioners had the power of building workhouses in any parishes they pleased. The Commissioners had no such power; they merely were enabled to direct the forming unions of parishes, and they had merely the power of recommending the erection of workhouses; the parish, however, could refuse. The amount of expenditure that the Commissioners could order was comparatively small. The hon. Baronet seemed to think that parishes with small rates would object to contribute towards building workhouses. He (Lord Althorp) did not anticipate that that would be the case; he thought, that it was more likely, that parishes paying large rates would object to pay their proportion to funds for building workhouses. If the Commissioners were to have the power of building workhouses the objection of the hon. Baronet would be of some weight; but, although this was recommended in the Report of the Poor Law Commissioners, his Majesty's Government would not consent to give them such power.
 Lord Althorp  was not surprised that the hon. Gentleman objected to every part of the Bill when he said, that he had never heard of any defects in the Poor-laws.
 Lord Althorp  was glad that the hon. member for Berkshire had given him the opportunity of stating, that the Bill did not give the power to build workhouses without the consent of the majority of the rate-payers of the parish. The Commissioners had the power to suggest to the parish the erection of a workhouse, but the erection was not to take place without the consent of the rate-payers, not even in unions of parishes. The Bill did not involve the necessity of giving no relief out of the workhouse, or of erecting workhouses throughout the country, without the consent of the majority of the owners of property. The question whether the workhouse system might not be better applied was a different thing; but it would be absurd to suppose that the Bill meant to sanction a general system of workhouses throughout the country. The power of giving relief out of doors would still remain as before. The only difference would be, that the Magistrates would not have the same power as formerly to award relief, that power resting with the guardians of the poor.
 Lord Althorp  said, that it had been stated by the hon. member for Wiltshire that country gentlemen would, under this Bill, no longer be guardians of the poor in their respective parishes. If his hon. friend would look more closely into the Act, he would find that the fact was decidedly the reverse, for one Magistrate in
 317
 The Lord Advocate  thought there was one point which had not been sufficiently enforced by the right hon. Baronet. The hon. and gallant Officer had made a distinction between the power exercised by the Crown, and the power exercised by the Board of Admiralty. The truth was, the Crown could not exercise that power, but by a responsible adviser, who was, in this case, the First Lord of the Admiralty.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that he was anxious to stop the progress of the Poor-laws' Amendment Bill altogether. The noble Lord had vaunted, that it would afford relief to agriculture; and when the repeal of the Malt-tax, or of the duty on agricultural horses was talked of, he had always said, that his measures upon the Poor-laws and upon tithes would accomplish all that was wanted. As to tithes, the noble Lord did not seem to be much in a hurry; his adversary was somewhat stout, and the noble Lord had not the courage to look him in the face; but the poor might be met—they might be looked in the face without danger; so, while the noble Lord fled from Dissenters and the Church, he was very vigorous in his attack upon the poor. He intended to propose, that the House should proceed no further with the Bill for the amendment of the Poor-laws, until it had investigated the increase of the poor-rates; he did not mean to press for the instructions of the barristers who had prepared the Bill, but to move the following resolu-
 325 326 l. l. 327 l. l. l. l. l.; l.
 Lord Althorp  did not consider it necessary to occupy the House above one or two moments. He begged to say, that he never had declared that the Poor-laws were the cause of the agricultural distress; but merely a great ingredient of it, and that the Bill, it might be fairly hoped, would go a considerable way in relieving that distress. He could safely appeal, in answer to the observations of the hon. member for Oldham, to numbers of hon. Gen-
 328
 Colonel Evans  wished to know if it was a benefit to make the poor man a pauper, or if it was a benefit to the labourer to be refused assistance when he really wanted, unless he consented to enter a workhouse? He agreed with the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cobbett), that there were many causes of the increase of pauperism which had been entirely overlooked, especially the unfair way at present adopted of raising the revenue of the country, instead of making property contribute its fair proportion. He should support the Motion for this reason—that he thought it indecent thus to press forward a measure founded on evidence, which, he would venture to state, not one person in that House had read.
 Mr. Hume  had gathered from the evidence—that to whatever part of England they turned, where the Poor-laws were badly administered, there they invariably found wages the lowest. In the north, where, generally speaking, abuses did not exist, the wages of labour were highest. He did not think the observations of the hon. and gallant Officer were just. What he looked at was this—did the Poor-laws do injury to the country? He said, that they did, and to none more than to the poor and labouring classes. He hoped the Motion would not be persevered in.
 Mr. Robinson  said, that ample inquiry should have been made before this measure was brought forward into the causes of the increase of the Poor-rates, and what it was that had produced the frightful extent of pauperism that at present prevailed throughout the country. But the noble Lord had prejudged the question by bringing in the Bill before a proper and full investigation had been gone into as to the causes that led to such a bill being at all required. He was not
 329
 Mr. Petre  concurred with what had fallen from the hon. member for Middlesex. He did not think the hon. member for Oldham, who had just addressed the House, would be found to turn out a true prophet. That hon. Member had prophesied that the present Bill would not be carried into operation, and that if it should, it would be the cause of destructive consequences. Now, he would say in contradiction, that not only the Bill would be carried into operation; but that it would be seen, in the course of two or three years, that it had worked considerable good. The public would then see who was the true prophet—he or the hon. member for Oldham. He had never seen more wisdom and good advice contained in any thing than he saw in the Report of the Poor-law Commissioners.
 Mr. Hodges  said, that if the House should be pressed to a division, he would divide with the hon. member for Oldham, but after what had fallen from the hon. member for Middlesex, he thought it would be more advisable to withdraw the Motion.
 Mr. Slaney : The hon. member for Oldham had said, that taxation was the great cause of the depression of the poor. Now, taxation was spread over all parts of the kingdom. How came it then that the poor were differently circumstanced in different parts of the country? How came it that the poor of some counties were more depressed than the poor of others? If taxation were the cause, they would be all equally depressed, whereas it would be seen that the labourer of Northumberland and Yorkshire was very differently situated from the labourer of Sussex. His opinion was, that the present Bill would place the labouring peasants of the southern counties on the same footing with those of the northern counties, and that it would save them from the depressed
 330
 Colonel Torrens  expressed his satisfaction, that the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) had so altered the clause that rate-payers should be entitled only to one vote. He thought it desirable that the clause should receive further alteration, and that the holders and owners of property should not have more than one vote. The more the Poor-laws were left in the hands of the lower classes of rate-payers, the better would they be administered. It was for that reason that they should be put on the same footing with the owners of property, and that both classes should have but one vote for their several parishes. He should therefore move, that the 33rd clause be omitted, and that another be proposed containing the principle he mentioned.
 Mr. Hume  seconded the Motion. He thought there was another reason why the noble Lord should concur in it, namely, that it would be making the Bill more acceptable in the large parishes of the metropolis, and of the great towns. There was no part of the Bill so much disliked and opposed in the large parishes of Middlesex as that which gave the right of having accumulative votes. There was a very good reason for this dislike. The rate-payers at vestry meetings would be borne down by those persons who had more than one vote. Proprietors could not have the same interest in parish rates that tenants had, since it was the latter who paid them. It appeared to him, therefore, most monstrous that the tenants, who paid the rates, should have but one vote, whilst the proprietors, who did not contribute to them, should have several votes towards the making of them. He hoped the noble Lord would equalize the right of voting, and not allow the proprietors to over-ride the tenants.
 Colonel Evans  objected to the accumulative vote, and said, that the inhabitants
 331
 Lord Althorp  observed, that in the altered form in which this clause now appeared, two new principles had been introduced into it—the one was, to allow the owners of property to vote, and the other was to allow them to vote by proxy. He thought, that if it was admitted that those were principles which it was desirable to introduce, it would follow as a necessary consequence, that the right of having cumulative votes should also be vested in the owners of property. It was true, that the immediate expense of supporting the poor fell upon the occupiers of the land. That was the fact, generally speaking, though there might be individual exceptions to it, and therefore they were bound to assume it in legislating for the whole country. But there was not the least doubt that the effects arising from an increase or diminution in the Poor-rates affected the landlord much more than the occupier. Owing to a variety of causes, the occupier of the soil was not so much concerned in an increase of the Poor-rates as the landlord was. He could, for instance, say to himself, "If the Poor-rates are high, my rents must be low;" and in that way he could counterbalance the evil. But the landlord was ultimately the suffering party, while at present he had not the power of influencing the management of the poor, or of voting at the vestry. He considered it an act of great injustice to deprive a man who might have the greatest interest in a parish of a vote at its vestry. It was, in his opinion, a clear principle, then, that the owners of property should have votes as well as the occupiers. Then came the principle of giving them the power to vote by proxy. In political matters it was true, that a great difference of opinion might exist as to the propriety of the principle of voting by proxy. But it was a different thing to allow owners of property, as a matter of accommodation, to vote in matters which concerned their pecuniary interest. If a gentleman who lived in Northumberland possessed the right of voting through a property that belonged to him in Cornwall, of what avail or use would that right be to him unless he could exercise it
 332
 Mr. Grote  was of opinion, that the distribution of the right of voting, as proposed in the clause, would be attended with mischievous effects in town parishes. He never believed that any such conspiracy as that feared by the noble Lord would ever take place on the part of the rate-payers in the town parishes for an
 333
 Lord Althorp  had no doubt, that in town parishes great objections would be taken to the granting of this right of cumulative voting to the owners of property, but it did not appear to him that any mischief would be produced by it. In the parish of Marylebone, for instance, Mr. Portman's having five or six votes would not enable him to overrule or overbear the rate-payers in that parish. His having such a right of voting would be a matter of no consequence to the rate-payers there. In fact, the great number of the rate-payers in the metropolitan parishes rendered it impossible that they could be overborne by the cumulative votes of the owners of property, and it was not worth while to alter the Bill to obviate the objections that might be made to this clause in those parishes.
 Mr. Baines  objected upon constitutional grounds to both the new principles introduced into the clause, and he should be astonished to find that such principles could be adopted in a reformed Parliament. Two principles more adverse to the rights of popular election and popular representation could not be suggested.
 Mr. Hawes  did not think, that either in town or country, with the Commissioners directing, as they would under the Bill, the administration of the Poor-laws, there was any necessity for returning to the provisions or principles of Mr. Sturges Bourne's Act. He trusted, at all events, that the noble Lord would consent not to apply this clause to the town parishes.
 Lord Sandon  observed, that under Mr. Sturges Bourne's Act, which had been adopted in the town of Liverpool, the rates had been reduced one-third. He was afraid, that if even the clause in its amended shape should be passed, that parish would return to its former riotous state, and the rates would be increased. He would rather have the clause as it stood originally than have a new right of
 334
 Mr. Jervis  observed, that in the town of Chester, where the Poor-laws were administered according to the old constitutional mode, they were as well administered as in any part of the country. Every person who had a right to vote had as much interest, and should have as much power, in the management of the Poor-laws as any of the owners of property. He was against the introduction of such new and unconstitutional principles. The noble Lord not only proposed to give the right of cumulative voting, but also the right of voting by proxy to the owners of property, at the very moment when there was a notice on the Journals of the other House of a Motion to take away the unconstitutional right of voting by proxy there.
 Lord Howick  remarked, that the only purposes for which the right of voting would be vested in the owners of property were two. First, voting in the election of guardians of the poor, and secondly, in deciding on adopting or rejecting certain rules proposed to them by the Central Board. Their votes would have nothing to do, as at present, in the management of the poor-rates. Now, surely no persons could be more interested in electing proper guardians of the poor than the owners of property. The noble Lord instanced the example of Scotland, where the heritors having votes had been productive of the most beneficial effects in the administration of the Poor-laws.
 Mr. Cripps  was of opinion, that such a clause, at least as regarded country parishes, would be, generally speaking, just and equitable—he did not say, that it would be popular, for he did not like the word. They would all agree that the Chancellor of the Exchequer should act justly, and if his doing so should render him unpopular, blame did not attach to him.
 Mr. Gisborne  was of opinion, that no owners of property should be allowed to vote whose property would not revert to them within a given period—say fourteen years. He thought, for instance, that
 335
 Mr. Benett  observed, that leases for twenty-one years were very uncommon in England, and they were unknown in his part of the country. The tenants there were generally tenants-at-will. He hoped that the clause would not be given up, as he looked upon it as the best clause in the Bill.
 Mr. Cobbett  hoped, if the Bill passed, this clause would remain in it; as then it would tell every man in England what was the object of the measure—namely, to cause the landlords to receive more, and the labourers to receive less. [ "No, no." 336
 Lord Althorp  expressed his disinclination to withdraw the clause, though he admitted that a distinction existed between rural and town districts. But it should not be forgotten, that the clause only affected three branches of the duties of a vestry, namely, the election of guardians of the poor, the effecting the union of parishes, with a view to the Law of Settlement, and lastly the building of workhouses. On these important occasions, the owners of property being as they were the most interested in every parish, it was desirable to give them some additional weight upon such questions as were brought before the vestry for a decision. In town parishes it must be admitted that the rate-payers were very numerous, and the cumulative right of voting given to a few individuals could not create any preponderating influence in such districts. He thought the objection in towns to the clause was really more matter of feeling than anything else, and that as a benefit would be conferred by its enactments upon rural districts, as was generally admitted, he could not but think it was desirable to retain the clause.
 Mr. Grote  said, that if the noble Lord could show how a distinction could be made in the operation of the clause between rural and town districts, he would support it as it now stood. In the absence of such demonstration he hoped the noble Lord would take the provisions of the clause into further consideration, and at present consent to postpone it.
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  thought the objection which had been taken to the clause had been much magnified; and so
 337
 Colonel Torrens  admitted, that the system of voting as proposed would be beneficial to the rural districts, but hoped that the clause would be allowed to stand over for further consideration.
 Mr. Brotherton  said, that he could see no beneficial result likely to arise from the landlords or owners having a plurality of votes. As far as his experience (which was principally confined to towns) went, be found that the smaller rate-payers were the most in favour of economy. If the object of the Bill was to reduce the rates, the means proposed would not conduce to the end. He thought, that if proxies were allowed, they should be confined to inhabitants, who would feel an interest in the welfare of the poor of these districts; for it would create great dissatisfaction if a number of persons from an adjoining township should come down with proxies and overrule the resident rate-payers.
 Lord Althorp  opposed the Amendment as unnecessary. The Commissioners would have the power to make the proper regulations for workhouses.
 Mr. Halcombe  condemned the cruel practice of separating a man from his wife in the workhouse; it was opposed to humanity, and contrary to the dictates of the highest authority. It could not be denied, that the circumstance to which he alluded was felt most acutely by those whose only crime was their poverty. On more than one occasion, lately, there had been rebellion in different workhouses on that very account. He had known instances in which the enforcement of this regulation had almost broken the hearts of those to whom it was applied.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the separation of man and wife was necessary, in order to ensure the proper regulation of workhouses.
 Mr. Hodges  wished to know, whether the workhouses under the Act were to be district houses of correction, and whether
 339
 Lord Althorp  said, that the workhouses would be managed as they were at present, but more strictly; care would be taken to prevent disturbance which might annoy the sick and infirm. The hon. Member need not be under any apprehension with respect to the erection of treadmills in the workhouses, because, if he remembered rightly, they could not under the Act be erected in any places except gaols. He could assure the hon. Member, that there did not exist the slightest intention of making the workhouses houses of correction, and measures would be taken to maintain regularity and good order, and that he believed would have the effect of excluding ill-conditioned persons.
 Sir H. Willoughby  observed, that although the Poor-law Commissioners in their report stated, that where a large number of persons were congregated in a workhouse, it was impossible to prevent the rapid extension of vicious feeling, they singularly enough concluded by recommending the establishment of the system.
 Mr. P. Scrope  mentioned the case of a poor tinker, eighty years of age, who accompanied by his wife aged seventy, sought relief at a workhouse in the country, but being told that he must enter the house, and be separated from his wife, he went away. Shortly after, impelled by hunger, he returned and entered the house, but died in a few days of a broken heart.
 Mr. Benett  objected to the discretionary powers given to the Commissioners, of sending labouring men to the workhouse, because they might happen to want relief on any temporary occasion, or to make up his means. A man might thus be deprived of the advantage of earning 8 s.
 Lord Althorp  said, he should like to know what part of the Bill deprived the guardians of those powers?
 Mr. P. Scrope  said, his object was to prevent the Commissioners from issuing any prohibition to that effect, which, under the powers bestowed on them in the Bill, they might.
 Mr. Wynn  said, he would not object to the introduction of the Bill of the noble Lord; but he certainly regretted that it had not been introduced much sooner, when it might have been more considered. He much feared that there would not be time this Session to give a Bill of such importance the consideration it deserved.
 Mr. Pryme  thought, that no voter should be disfranchised from the fact of his removing from a place within the limits of a borough, to a place without them; he hoped, too, that though a party might not occupy the same messuage or tenement, his right should remain unprejudiced for a certain period.
 Lord D. Stuart  agreed with the noble Lord, that it would be only right that the Poles should, whenever they had an opportunity, seek by employment to support themselves. He could assure the House, that he believed these high-spirited men would infinitely prefer earning a subsistence, to deriving it from the gratuitous kindness of the English people.
 Lord Dudley Stuart  rose for the purpose of moving, that an Address be presented to his Majesty, praying that a sum of 10,000 l. 341
 Lord John Russell  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill, for the more effectual Registration of persons entitled to vote in the election of Members to serve in Parliament in England and Wales; and though it would be necessary to alter many clauses of the existing Bill, yet the original principle of that measure would remain unaltered. At that stage of the proceedings, however, he did not intend to trouble the House at any length. It had been found, that in consequence of leaving to the overseers the uncontrolled duty of registration, they had acted frequently upon their own notions, and in many places, especially in the county of Somerset, they had been very negligent in the discharge of their duty. It was
 342 343
 Lord John Russell,  in reply, observed, that, with reference to the suggestion
 344
 Major Beauclerk  was unacquainted with the merits of the present case, but he protested against the principle of depriving any officer of his commission, without affording him the opportunity of defending himself by a Court-martial.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that if the hon. and gallant Admiral thought the Board of Admiralty should not have the power he had referred to, he ought to bring such an important question forward on its own merits, and not discuss it incidentally on the presentation of a petition. The subject was one of very great importance in a constitutional point of view; and if the hon. and gallant Member should think fit to bring the question under the consideration of the House in a substantive Motion, he should be prepared at any time to meet it. He must, however, decline entering into a discussion of that question on the present occasion. With reference to the case of Mr. Williams, he must say, that it was one which did not call for the interference of the House. The hon. Member entered into an explanation of various transactions in which the individual mentioned had been concerned, with a view of satisfying the House, that Mr. Williams had in his private capacity behaved very ill. The Admiralty, therefore, were perfectly justified in removing him from the service. In such a profession as the army or the navy, he knew of no distinction to be made between the character of an officer and the character of a gentleman, for what was discreditable to the one was equally dishonourable to the other. It would have been a reproach to the Board of Admiralty to suffer so dishonourable a man to remain in his Majesty's service, and they had acted with great propriety in striking him off the list.
 Mr. Walter  said, that the subject of the noble Lord's Bill, was one of which he happened to possess some practical knowledge, and he was glad to find, that the Bill would be rendered applicable to an evil which he himself had experienced. One of the expenses to which he had been subjected was, the humbug claim of thirty-seven fictitious voters, who had registered themselves in fourteen different parishes; thus he had 518 objections to take against parties who had not the slightest claim in the world. But the notices being incorrectly served in one parish, one half of these spurious voters actually polled against him. Last year, however, he expelled the whole of them. He put it to the House, therefore, whether some penalty ought not to attach to offences of this description, more especially where the attempt had been repeated? A case of this sort had occurred in the person of a young gentleman named Somerset, the son of Lady Arthur Somerset, who twice offered himself as the occupier of a house, which, it appeared, belonged to his mother. He mentioned this without the feeling of pique at the present moment, but allusion having been made to the expenses incurred at the Berkshire election, he considered it was but fair to show by what methods these expenses had been really accumulated.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  suggested, that 10,000 l. s. l.
 Mr. Ewart  suggested, that it would be an improvement, if the time of polling in boroughs was shortened. By a better arrangement, the poll might be taken in one day.
 Sir Edward Codrington  said, he was the last man to say anything derogatory to the authority and dignity of his Sovereign; all that he meant was, to deprecate the assumption of the King's name by any body of men to do that which was unjust. The petitioner and his accusers had never been brought face to face; and, therefore, he had as much right to believe
 324
 Sir Edward Codrington  presented a Petition from Dr. Williams, late a Surgeon in the Navy, complaining of having been dismissed from the Navy on certain allegations against him which were false, and the falsehood of which was since admitted by those who gave the Admiralty the information. He was dismissed, and, after repeated applications to the Admiralty in 1826, for a copy of the charges against him, was told, that they had been proved to the satisfaction of the Admiralty, who therefore struck him off the list. After repeated applications, he got the minutes of his case, and it was referred to the present Admiralty Solicitor, by whom the charge was said to be affirmed. He (Sir Edward Codrington) contended, that the dismissal by the Lords of the Admiralty was unconstitutional and illegal. The case of the petitioner involved a question of great constitutional importance. A man, without being confronted with his accusers had been dismissed from the navy. This unconstitutional power had been exerted by the Admiralty in more cases than one; and he had no hesitation in saying, that it was once in contemplation to have struck him (Sir Edward Codrington) off the list, without affording him the means of publicly defending himself. He asked, why the Admiralty did not do it? It was, because he should have brought the subject before the public through the medium of that House. It was not from a sense of justice that they refrained from making the attempt, to which they were urged by political feeling; but because they dared not to do it. The Admiralty in itself had no power to strike an officer from the list; it could only be done by the sign-manual of the Sovereign. The hon. and gallant Admiral referred to the two cases of Admiral Vernon in 1746, and of Sir Isaac Coffin in 1786, in which it was held by the twelve Judges, that it was illegal for the Board of Admiralty to strike officers off the list, and these two who had been struck off were restored. There was another objection to the exercise of this power. For every three individuals who were struck off the list, the Admiralty
 321
 Sir James Graham  was surprised, that the experience of the hon. and gallant Admiral had not suggested to him the difference which existed between an officer on full pay and one upon half-pay only, with reference to the question under discussion. He could scarcely suppose the hon. and gallant Member to be ignorant that an officer on half-pay could not be tried by a Court-martial. A full investi-
 322 Edward Codrington: 323
 Lord Althorp  thought the sum proposed by the hon. Member who had just sat down would be, indeed, very extravagant. He did not think 10,000 l. l. l.
 Lord Althorp,  in moving the Order of the Day for the House to go into Committee on the Four - per - Cent Annuities Payment Bill, said, he was fully prepared to redeem such portion as the holders might dissent from, according to the proposition which he had to make. Since he had made his former statement, a greater number of dissentients had announced themselves, than at that time he had calculated upon; still he should be prepared to meet them, though their number was stated to be 969, and the amount they held 4,600,000 l.
 Mr. Wolryche Whitmore  hoped the House would not agree to the Amendment. The hon. member for Oldham said, one object of the Bill was to get rid of a portion of the taxation of the country. Undoubtedly it was; but when the hon. Member said, it would all go into the pockets of the rich, he begged to remind him, that these laws equally pressed as heavily upon the middle classes as upon the rich; and he believed, that the passing of the law would not do so much good to any class as to the superior and well-behaved workman himself. Unless some stop were put to the evil, the poor themselves would, in a very few years, be the greatest sufferers.
 Mr. Mark Philips  was of opinion that, in large manufacturing towns, when it happened, from any accidental circumstances, to be impossible immediately to find employment for the poor, the operation of this clause would be very injurious. Before the labourers went to the workhouse they would be compelled to sell all their furniture, hand-looms, &c.; and, having disposed of everything they possessed before they obtained relief from the workhouse, they would have no prospect of ever returning to their work, as the most they would be allowed was a penny a-day from the workhouse. It would, therefore, be three years before they had even a bed
 349
 Mr. Halcombe  said, the House would be forgetful of the legitimate object of Poor-laws if it placed such a power in the hands of the Commissioners. They had seen, from the Report, what views were entertained by the Commissioners on the subject of affording relief to the poor, and they had every reason to suppose, when the power was given to them, it would be exercised in conformity with those views. With respect to orphans, he put it to the House whether it would not be consistent, with justice and humanity, to pass some enactment allowing relief to be given them out of the workhouses?
 The Earl of Darlington  supported the Amendment. It was not, in his opinion, inconsistent with the general provisions of the Bill, which, he believed, would be found to work beneficially for the poor themselves.
 Colonel Wood  said, that, in the county which he represented, there existed no workhouses; but he should vote for the present clause, because he believed, that the Commissioners would not order the erection of workhouses in those parts of the country where they were not called for.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  rose to bring forward his Resolution for the repeal of the whole of the Assessed Taxes. The hon. Member complained of the unequal pressure of the Assessed Taxes on those who kept carriages, horses, and servants. One of the Assessed Taxes was on horses above a certain standard. The effect of this was, that, to get horses of a size below that standard, the excellent breed of that useful animal the English pony was discouraged; the breed had become greatly deteriorated, and we now had a race of Shetland ponies, some of them not much larger in size than a good Newfoundland dog. It was absurd, he contended, to let the tax fall on the horse according to his height, as it prevented many from keeping a horse which would be of real use to them. The unequal pressure of the taxes was the cause of driving many persons with large families
 353
 Mr. Robinson  then brought forward his Amendment; and, after remarking upon the position in which he was accidentally placed, called the attention of the House to the fact, that last year he had been supported in a proposition similar to that he was now about to introduce, by 157 Members. A strong presumption was thus afforded, that at that time there existed a very general opinion that a great change ought to be made in the system of taxation.
 Mr. Hawes  admitted, that the poor-rates had decreased during the present and last year, but this decrease was attributable to the attention which had been bestowed on the administration of the Poor-laws in consequence of the inquiries of the Commissioners. Certainly no class of persons were more dissatisfied with the existing mode of administering relief to the poor than the poor themselves, as abundantly appeared from the Report of the Commissioners. He was in favour of giving to the Commissioners the discretion proposed to be vested in them by the present clause; for, considering their responsibility to that House, and the publicity which must attend their proceedings, he did not fear, that they would abuse the power intrusted to them. He believed, that the putting an end to out-door relief was an act of humanity.
 Mr. Edward Buller  proposed an Amendment to relieve the guardians of the poor from the obligation of paying out of their own pockets the expenses incurred by them in granting outdoor relief, unless those
 352
 Mr. Grote  said, the Amendment went to this—to give the guardians of the poor the power to say, what relief should be given in a parish and what should not, and the House had to decide whether the discretion should be placed in the hands of the Commissioners, or whether it would be better to intrust it with the guardians of the poor. Agreeing, as they all did, that some relief should be given out of the workhouse, and as the power must be intrusted somewhere, he thought the House would perpetuate the evils the Bill proposed to remedy, if that power were given to those who had hitherto exercised it so much to the injury of the country. He, therefore, hoped the House would not agree to the Amendment.
 Mr. Benett  thought, that the guardians, being better acquainted with the characters of the poor in their respective districts than the Commissioners, ought to have the power of deciding to what individuals outdoor relief should be given. He believed that, if the Amendment were carried, it would have the effect of conciliating the feelings of the poor. To adopt it was also desirable on economical considerations; for, in many instances, the aged poor were content to receive half-a-crown a-week from the parish funds in aid of their maintenance
 350
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  rose to propose the amendment of which he had given notice. By this Clause of the Bill it was provided it should be lawful for the Commissioners, by such orders or regulations as they should think fit, to declare to what extent the relief to be given to able-bodied persons or their families may be administered out of
 345 346
 Mr. Slaney  would be ready to admit the force of the hon. member for Lambeth's observations, if they were confined to the practice of giving relief out of workhouses to able-bodied labourers. But the Amendment of the hon. Member (Mr. Poulett Scrope) had no reference to that practice, having only for its object to create an exception in favour of the aged, infirm, and impotent poor. So far he (Mr. Slaney) was willing to go with the hon. Member; but with respect to orphans and deserted children, he thought that they were the very persons who ought to be sent—not to poor-houses as at present managed—but to well regulated workhouses, such as were likely to be established under the proposed system.
 Mr. Cobbett  said the Bill gave all manner of power to the Commissioners without limitation; the House would give them power to do that which no hon. Member would do. The hope was to make the landlords what the heritors were in Scotland, by means of three Commissioners, who were to be stuck up here in London to bear all the blame. He wanted to know what was intended by the present Bill? It would be supposed from what was last night stated by the noble Lord, that the only object was to reduce the rates. [Lord Althorp: I never said that.] Well, then, it was one of the objects of the Bill. But the fact was, that all the gentlemen in the country had declared that such a Bill was not wanted, and could not have such an effect. What was to be done, according to the recommendation of the Report? No relief was to be given to able-bodied men out of the workhouse; and if placed in it, husbands Were to be separated from wives, and
 348
 Mr. Cobbett  said, the whole object of the Bill was, to deter the poor from seeking relief. He had heard of an overseer in Sussex who cut off the hair of two women who applied to him for relief, put degrading badges on them, and in this condition marched them through the village to the parish church. Now, the Commissioners recommended that badges should be put on the paupers; and, though they did not recommend the cutting off the hair of those who applied for relief, yet give them but the power, and they would soon turn head-shavers. During the riots in the agricultural districts, these head-shaving overseers did not escape punishment; and it was with great pleasure that he heard of the manner in which they were treated by the people. He intended to propose, as an Amendment to the present clause, a proviso prohibiting any regulation being made for separating the male pauper from his wife or children, or for shaving the heads of, or for putting odious badges on, poor persons applying for relief.
 Sir Henry Willoughby  would support the Amendment, and only regretted that it did not also include the aged poor. He did not think it fitting to give any person the power of confining the whole of the aged poor of the country in workhouses. Neither was he of opinion, that the guardians of the poor were proper persons to be intrusted with the discretion it was proposed to give them. They were interested parties, and would be disposed to keep down the poor-rates. He, therefore, thought, that some local authority should be established to transmit the complaints of the poorer classes to the Central Board in London.
 Lord Althorp  opposed the Amendment, but thought the subject worthy of consideration. Perhaps it might be possible to effect the hon. Member's object in some unobjectionable manner.
 Lord Althorp  said, the next clause of the Bill would be found to apply to such cases as the hon. Member had alluded to.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the clause, as it stood, effected exactly what the hon. Member contemplated by his Amendment; for it contained a proviso enabling the guardians of the poor in all cases of emergency to depart from the regulations of the Commissioners, but requiring that, within fifteen days after every such departure, they should report the same, and the grounds thereof, to the Commissioners. With respect to widows, he saw no objection to placing them in workhouses, if those workhouses were well regulated. The question then was, in whose hands should the discretion of granting or withholding out-door relief be placed. He admitted, that the guardians were likely to have
 351
 Lord Althorp  was understood to say, that it had been supposed by the hon. Member who had just addressed the House, as well as many other hon. Members, that this Bill was not intended to improve the condition of the poor, but merely to afford relief to parishes. The great object of the Bill was to improve the condition of the poor; and if he thought it would not produce that effect, as well as be a relief to the parishes, he should certainly not support it. It was not merely for the House to consider what was the amount of the poor-rates compared with the population of the country since 1688; the question was, whether it would be practicable by this Bill to give the Commissioners the power in every case to say whether relief should be given at the workhouse or not. If by this Bill the House were to say that either now or at any future time relief should not any longer be given out of the workhouse, he should consider with the hon. Member that the Bill would go a great deal too far, and would be attended with bad consequences. But the Bill did nothing of the kind. The Clause under discussion did not give such a power to the Commissioners as the hon. Member described; if it had any effect, it diminished that power. It appeared to him so unimportant at one time, that he had almost intended not to persevere in it. With respect to relief being given to persons who were sick, to orphans, or widows, or others who might require relief out of the workhouse from some temporary cause, a dis-
 347
 The Marquess of Chandos  said, that, having presented many petitions to that House from Dissenters who did not desire a separation of Church and State, he felt it to be but justice to them to state, that neither the assertion of the hon. member for Leeds, nor the declaration read by the right hon. Baronet, applied to all the Dissenters. He thought that those Members who had retired from the Government, considered in their own minds that they had purified themselves by the secession. They had retired with great credit to themselves, and the country would justly appreciate the motives by which they were animated.
 Sir George Strickland  attached great importance to the due support of the office of Coroner, and said, that for many years it had been felt that the remuneration was insufficient. Many years ago, a Bill had passed that House to give a much larger remuneration than was proposed by this Bill. The clause had his cordial support, as absolutely necessary, in order to secure the services of just and proper men.
 Mr. Shaw  thought that the right hon. Gentleman had done sufficient in presenting a petition in favour of the Bill without proceeding with it to-night. The right hon. Gentleman must be fully aware that
 383
 Mr. Robert Grant  said, that he was in the hands of the House, but was most anxious to go on. He had stated to the hon. member for the University of Oxford that he could not consent to postpone the third reading of the Bill. Ample opportunity had been afforded for discussing it, and he did not recollect any measure of importance having gone through the House with so little opposition.
 Mr. Hume  put it to the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Shaw) whether it was probable, after the discussions that had taken place, that there was any probability of offering anything like a successful opposition to the Bill.
 Mr. Cumming Bruce  had always been opposed to a Bill of this nature, and had divided the House upon it more than once. He thought that the right hon. Gentleman was acting unfairly in persisting in the third reading at that late hour. He (Mr. Bruce) thought the Bill of so much importance that he would put in practice the mode of proceeding suggested by the hon. member for Middlesex on another Bill in the early part of the evening, and persist in dividing the House on the Question. The hon. Member moved, that the House do adjourn.
 Mr. Wynn  said, that having already expressed his disapprobation of this measure, he would not trouble the House by repeating his objections to it at length. The Bill would enable any person to preach, without having received licence to do so from the clergyman of the parish, or from the Bishop of the diocess. Now, to such an enactment he had great objections, for he thought that the members of the Church of England were bound to
 361
 Mr. Hardy  thought the Bill would prevent the evil anticipated by the hon. Gentleman. It was only designed to allow lay members of the Established Church, in situations where they were destitute of the means of public worship, to read a portion of the Liturgy, and perhaps a sermon, in their houses, or in the servants' halls, and to allow the presence of their poor neighbours. According to the 71st Canon of the Ecclesiastical Law, no licence could be granted in such a case without a licence for the performance of the whole Church service. He only wished to secure to members of the Church of England the same privilege that Dissenters enjoyed. He did not see why the privilege should apply to Dissenters only. Undoubtedly, an equal privilege ought to be extended to the members of the Established Church. The latter, undoubtedly, might meet and read a chapter out of the Bible; but the moment they attempted to explain the importance of it, or to address themselves to the Almighty in prayer, they were bound to ascertain, that there were not more than twenty of them assembled together. The members of the Church of England laboured under an inconvenience in this respect. There were not Churches calculated to accommodate more than a fifth part of the population of the members of the Church of England; and why should not a gentleman, a member of that Church, be at liberty to assemble his servants and neighbours in his hall for the purpose of social worship? He was quite sure, that if the right hon. Gentleman who had addressed the House was only made once properly aware of the nature of the proposed plan, he would no longer object to it. It was a plan proposed upon the suggestions of many clergymen, all of whom were anxious that every facility should be afforded to it. They were persuaded, that it would strengthen the Church of England, and not draw members away from it. Neither they nor he advocated the encouragement of fanaticism. This Bill would have no such effect; and he did hope it would be allowed to pass, that the country might know the House approved of its principle.
 Mr. O'Connell  would not detain the House many minutes. He thought, that the more they were assembled together to worship their God the better, whilst they did not interfere with others. They could not create a riot, as the Bill contemplated worship in private houses; and why people should not pray as much as they liked, or why that House should discourage prayer by making it a crime, he could not understand. It was against all principle. Persons were allowed to lecture upon astrology, theology, every art and science, and even upon materialism; but the moment they prayed to the Deity, if more than twenty were present, their conduct became criminal. Such an absurdity ought not so long to have remained on the Statute-book, and the sooner it was expunged the better. It was their duty to make conscience free, for true piety and genuine religion could only prosper by having the utmost latitude. The more families attended upon private worship, the more it would be a means of bringing down God's blessing upon the country.
 Mr. Halcombe  thought, that the privileges of domestic religion were already sufficiently extensive. By the present law, any gentleman might assemble a congregation of friends in his house to the number of twenty, exclusive of his family and servants, for the purposes of private worship. If it passed, any person who disliked his clergyman, could set up a preaching place in his own private dwelling; and there would be as many chapels as there were different grades of opinion. He should give it his most strenuous opposition.
 Sir Daniel Sandford  supported the Bill, for the reason the hon. Member opposed it. When clergymen were not favourites, he believed they would meet with some rivalry, which would be a good method to make them attend to their duty.
 Mr. Wilks  considered, that every individual in the country ought to be allowed, either in his own house or the contiguous premises, to assemble his friends for religious worship. Persons were permitted to assemble to any number for any other purposes, without any licence; and he did not see why they should not be allowed to assemble for religious worship.
 Mr. Plumptre  hoped, that the Bill would be allowed to pass. He was not ashamed to say, that he had himself, at his own house in the country, often
 363
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  said, that although he was the friend of religious liberty and toleration to as extended a degree as most Members of that House, yet he could not give his consent to the passing of this Bill, chiefly because it would have the effect of converting Members of that House, if they so pleased, into preachers. The hon. member for Cambridge had lately introduced a Bill to turn preachers into Members of Parliament; and the object of the present Bill, seemed to be to turn Members of Parliament into preachers. He did not wish to make religion a mere by-word in the mouths of those who were not immediately connected with its Ministry; and on these grounds, therefore, he should move, that the Bill be read a third time that day six months.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  seconded the Motion.
 Mr. Strickland  was anxious that the Bill should pass; but he should be glad to have the protection that was intended to be given to rooms or other places attached to private houses more satisfactorily explained than it was in the Bill.
 Mr. Hume  could not at all see why Members of Parliament, if they happened to be properly qualified for the duty, should be prevented from being teachers of religion any more than other persons. He should be very glad to see the system of granting licences done away with altogether, as far as it extended to religious instruction. It was one of the last remnants of intolerance, and ought to be abolished. He should give his cordial support to the Bill.
 Sir George Grey  said, that he thought the time had passed away for continuing an Act of Pains and Penalties such as the Conventicle Act. That Act was designed to prevent meetings for seditious purposes under the pretence of religious instruction; and, as there existed no longer any dread of seditious meetings, the law was no longer called for. He should give his support to the Bill.
 Mr. Fleetwood  hoped, that this Bill would receive the support of the House, as it certainly should his own most cordially. He particularly called for the support of the Irish and Scotch Members on this occasion, as they had ample opportunity of seeing in those two countries the advantages that arose from unrestricted religious institutions. The Bill only went to establish religious toleration; and he hoped there were not many Members in that House who would object to that principle at the present day.
 Earl Jermyn  objected to the Bill, on the ground that it would trench upon the fundamental principles and regulations of the Established Church. He should wish to have the discussion on the Bill adjourned until some of his Majesty's Ministers should be present, as he was very desirous of hearing what their sentiments were on a subject of such importance to the religious instruction of the country, and to the Church of England Establishment. He should like very much to hear what the Attorney General thought of the Bill. He should support the Amendment that had been moved by the hon. member for Newcastle.
 Mr. Gillon  had hoped, that the very reasonable Motion of the hon. member for Lanarkshire would have been at once acceded to. It was the imperative duty of this House to inquire into the distress of any portion of their fellow-subjects, and to endeavour to devise a remedy for it; and the more that distress was confined to a particular class, the more reason was there to examine the peculiar causes of hardship which bore upon them. After all the facts which had been repeatedly brought forward in this and the last Session, it was scarcely necessary to prove the existence of that distress; but as certain statements had been put forth at the opening of the Session of a great improvement having taken place in the condition of the hand-loom weavers, it was his duty to inform the House that these statements were utterly fallacious, and that the hon. Member who made them had been grossly
 * 366 s. d. d., s. 367 s. s. 368 369
 Admiral Adam  regretted the distress of the hand-loom weavers, and should be glad if a remedy could be discovered, but he had heard nothing as yet which he could look upon in the light of a remedy. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Poulett Thomson) had promised, that an inquiry should take place into the case of the hand-loom weavers next Session, and he thought that, under all circumstances, they should not at present proceed in the matter.
 Mr. Hume  would be glad, if time and
 370
 Sir Daniel Sandford  said, it was admitted that the hand-loom weavers had suffered the most unparalleled distress with the most exemplary patience; and no class was less likely to resort to violent measures, or to press their advocates into an extreme course of conduct. He had been amongst them in times both of excitement and tranquillity: but, even when a political canvass had been going on, and other classes had shown themselves ready to impose extreme political doctrines upon candidates, he had never found the hand-loom weavers, notwithstanding their numbers, and the influence they might in a mass exercise upon an election, otherwise than sober, rational, and constitutional. Their prayer had constantly been for an inquiry, and he had heard them give the most sensible and conclusive answers to objections such as those which had been urged by the hon. member for Middlesex. No one had attempted to impugn the case of distress advanced on the part of these unfortunate persons. No prosperity witness, no prosperity statement, no prosperity doctrines, had been brought forward here, as they were on the recent debate connected with the shipping interest. He was
 371 minimum minimum minimum. 372 dictum 373 minimum 374
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that after the description which they had heard of the distress of the people of Paisley, he trusted, that he should never again hear the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, say, that he hoped in God his country would become the great manufacturing shop of the world. He trusted, too, that they would no longer hear the hon. member for Middlesex eulogise the operation of the Scotch Poor-laws, as an example for this country to follow in amending its own system of Poor-laws. That hon. Member had expressed a fear, that if the House should interfere in this matter of wages, it might drive valuable branches of manufactures from the country. Drive them from the country! Ay, drive them from the world, he would say; drive them down to the infernal regions, rather than that they should produce such misery. He wished not England to become the manufacturing shop of the world; on the contrary, if manufactures were to produce such distress as had been described, if they were to be followed by such a harvest of misery, he should like to see them driven not only from this country, but from the earth. He was not a judge of the measures that might be necessary to relieve the distress of those suffering manufacturers; but he would certainly vote for a Committee of Inquiry to see what could be done for them. They had plenty of Committees on other subjects; why not, then, grant a Committee on this? They had a Committee to inquire into the causes of drunkenness, though every human being knew beforehand that it arose from the use of beer and gin. They had a Committee appointed nevertheless, and sitting,
 375
 Sir Daniel Sandford  said, that his observations had applied to the distress existing in Glasgow, and not in Paisley.
 Mr. Cobbett  had been in Paisley, and had seen enough of it to know that great distress existed there also. There were several streets in it in which a knife and fork were not to be found.
 Mr. Ewing  feared, that the sufferings which had been endured by this patient and deserving body of men were beyond the power of the Legislature to remedy, arising as they did in some degree from foreign competition, and next, from the introduction of power-looms. The only remedy, he believed, for such sufferings, was to proportion the labour to the demand for it in the market. As, however, the hand-loom weavers had suffered so long and so patiently, he was in favour of appointing a Committee of Inquiry on the subject; but he feared that it would be too late to expect any good from such a step this Session. He trusted, however, that, for the satisfaction of the petitioners, the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, would hold out the hope that such a Committee would be appointed next Session.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  had formerly stated, that it was too late in the Session to enter into such an inquiry, and that he objected to any inquiry based upon the principles stated in the speech of the hon. Member who had brought forward this Motion. Those principles had been again candidly avowed that night by the hon. member for Paisley; and he (Mr. Poulett Thomson) must therefore decidedly object to the in-
 376
 Mr. Hesketh Fleetwood  said, that as there had already been Committees appointed this Session on individual cases, it was the bounden duty of the House to grant a Committee when 800,000 people were plunged in the greatest distress. He should vote for a Committee, without pledging himself to any ulterior measures whatever.
 Colonel Torrens  supported the Motion for the appointment of a Committee, and could not concur in the reasons assigned by the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, for refusing the prayer of the petitioners. It was not correct to state, that the petitioners asked for local Boards of Trade. The petitions of the hand-loom weavers of Bolton, and of other parts of Lancashire, prayed for a Parliamentary inquiry into the causes of their distress, and into the means by which that distress might be relieved, whether by local Boards of Trade or otherwise. The Committee which had been moved for, was a Committee of Inquiry, and as such he should support it. But the right hon. Gentleman contended, that granting this Committee would excite unreasonable expectations. An inquiry, he thought, would have a contrary effect, and would dispel unfounded expectations. The most sanguine expectations were now entertained by the hand-loom weavers, that local Boards of Trade would relieve their distress. If this
 377 378
 Mr. O'Reilly  thought, that the House should grant an inquiry for the satisfaction and contentment of those suffering and patient people.
 Viscount Palmerston  would oppose the Motion for the reasons stated by his right hon. friend, the President of the Board of Trade. He was as conscious as any hon. Member of the distress which existed amongst the petitioners—he was as anxious that a full and satisfactory inquiry should be instituted into the pressure under which they were labouring; but surely it would be impossible to institute such an inquiry with any advantage at this advanced period of the Session. He thought it would be far better
 379 Mr. Cobbett.
 Mr. Hardy  said, that if there happened to be, and it was probable there were, any hand-loom weavers in the gallery while the noble Lord was speaking, they might well say "It may be sport to you, but it is death to us." When they had petitions from this class of manufacturers complaining of distress, both in Scotland and England, he thought that it became the duty of Government to grant inquiry. He would implore the Government to grant the inquiry which was now sought, and which would be calculated to remove much of the delusion under which the people laboured. After the evidence had been heard, it would open some means for the adoption of the House to relieve these petitioners from their present state of overwhelming distress. He would vote for the Committee of Inquiry, even though it should push the duration of the Session beyond the usual limits. He could not agree in the opinion expressed by the hon. and gallant member for Bolton, that the labouring classes were unrepresented in that House; for he was sure, that the majority of the House was anxious to do justice to that
 380
 Mr. Pryme s thought the establishment of Local Boards of Trade would only increase the evils to which the hand-loom weavers were at present exposed, for he understood one of the objects of these Boards would be to raise wages, by doing which the expenses of manufacture would be increased, and consequently any trade which still remained to these petitioners would leave them and be carried to a cheaper market of manufacture, Another strong argument against the present Motion was the late period of the Session, which precluded the possibility of entering with any chance of utility upon an inquiry so extensive as that sought would necessarily be. Believing, also, that the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, would, as he had stated, institute an inquiry next Session, not only into this, but other important commercial subjects, he should vote against the Motion for the appointment now of a Committee.
 Mr. Lloyd  deprecated any endeavour to enter upon so important and intricate an inquiry at this late period of the Session. Indeed, it would be hopeless to expect, that such an inquiry could be treated with the attention which it deserved between this and the breaking up of Parliament; and, therefore, although he agreed that inquiry should take place, if it were only to convince the petitioners of the fallacy of their views, he should vote against the present Motion, on the understanding that the subject was to be brought forward by the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, early in the next Session.
 Mr. Bolling  thought they should agree to the Motion if it were only to satisfy the petitioners and the labouring classes generally, that the Members of that House would not turn their backs on men who adopted a constitutional and proper means of complaining of the grievances which they laboured under.
 Mr. Fielden  admitted, that distress existed among the operatives in several parts of the country, but he denied that this distress had been occasioned by the power-looms. Much of the distress that prevailed in particular places arose from an unequal distribution of trade; and, instead of laying it to the account of foreign competition, it was almost solely the result of the compe-
 381
 Mr. George Wood,  although persuaded that the inquiry, even if acceded to, would not afford the relief which the petitioners seemed to expect from it, yet, thinking that the grievances complained of by this class of persons ought not to be passed over without inquiry, he should give his vote for the appointment of a Committee. These petitioners alleged that they were suffering great distress, and surely it was incumbent on the Legislature to ascertain whether their complaints were well founded or not. It was on this ground that he should vote for inquiry now rather than wait for the ensuing Session.
 Mr. Hutt  said, that no man could be more desirous than he was, to inquire into the distresses of the labouring classes; but, believing that the present Motion, even if adopted, could not lead to any advantageous results, he should vote with the Government.
 Mr. Richards  said, that it was a mere delusion to imagine even that the use of machinery could be dispensed with. If an attempt to do without it were made in this country would it not still be resorted to by the foreign manufacturer? And, that being the case, how was it possible, if it were desired to compete with the manufacturer of other nations, for the home manufacturer to refrain from employing machinery? It could not be done; it was altogether impracticable. But, notwithstanding that was the case, they were bound to show that they sympathised with the labouring classes, by granting an inquiry with a view to explain to them how just the principles were on which the present system was based. Such an inquiry, he was satisfied, could only produce a happy effect, and, therefore, he should vote for the Committee.
 Mr. Dunlop  objected to the Motion for the Committee only because he feared at that late period of the Session it could lead to no practical result.
 Mr. Maxwell  briefly replied. It was incumbent on them, if they would not lose the confidence of the people altogether, to grant their request, and inquire into their complaints.
 Colonel Davies  opposed the clause. There was no occasion for any increase in the allowances, as under the present system there were plenty of candidates for the office of Coroner.
 Earl Jermyn  said, the evidence of every day proved it was the imperious duty of the Government, to declare the views they entertained toward the Church and the Dissenters. A new writ had yesterday been moved for, in the case of a gentleman recently appointed a member of the Cabinet, (Mr. Abercromby), who when he was called upon to give his opinion on the subject of a separation of Church and State, said, that it was a new question, and one that required very serious consideration. He thought, that not only the individual opinions of the members of the Government should be stated, but also what were the views of the Government, of which Mr. Abercromby was now a member.
 Mr. Baines  had understood the right hon. Baronet also to have intimated, that a desire existed among the Dissenters to participate in the revenues of the Church establishment.  ["No," from Sir Robert Peel.] 358
 Mr. Baines  had not seen the declaration alluded to, until it was shown to him by the right hon. Baronet opposite. He believed the principles of the Dissenters were unchanged, and to be embodied in the resolution alluded to by the right hon. Baronet. If the principles of dissent were properly understood, the very circumstance of a man being a Dissenter was a declaration that he could not agree to the union between Church and State.  ["No"]
 Mr. Shaw  complimented the hon. Member for the candour of his avowal. He had stated, that the Dissenters desired a separation of Church and State, but that they wished the revenues of the Church not to be appropriated to their own purposes, but to some secular purposes. The hon. Member had also stated in that House, that the object of the Dissenters in endeavouring to obtain admission into the Universities, was not confined to taking degrees morely, but that they also sought to participate in all the advantages the members of the Episcopal Church enjoyed with respect to fellowships and other benefits arising out of the Universities; but he was sure the hon. Member would not contend, that if the Universities were once opened to Dissenters in the manner he desired, it would be impossible to preserve the ecclesiastical mode of education at present adopted at those institutions. He concurred in the opinion of the right hon. Baronet, that at the present important crisis, it was most important the House and the country should be made fully acquainted with the views which were entertained on the subject by his Majesty's Ministers. He believed it had now come to the simple question of whether there should be a Church or no Church, and he thought, as that was the case, it was most desirable the Government should not entertain one opinion in that House and a different opinion in another; but should distinctly state what opinion his Majesty's Ministers, as a Government, entertained with regard to the Church.
 Mr. Finch  said, the Government, who ought to stand forward as the bulwark of the Church, were now endeavouring, by a number of measures, to conciliate the Dissenters. The cause of religion was too sacred to be affected by the agitation of the present times, but it was nevertheless the duty of every friend of the establishment to stand forward in her support.
 Mr. Cripps  said, the Bill was based on the evidence of highly respectable witnesses examined before a Committee. Many respectable Coroners declared they would resign, if the salary were not increased.
 Mr. Methuen  regretted he had not been present to give that petition his support. The right hon. Baronet seemed to say that the Dissenters generally desired a separa-
 359
 Mr. Locke  was one of those who had said "No," when the hon. member for Leeds stated that the Dissenters all desired a separation of Church and State. He did so, because he had that morning presented a petition from the Dissenters of Devizes, in which they stated they had no desire to interfere with the connexion of Church and State. He had supported the petition on that very ground.
 Mr. Finn  thought the House ought to see what the Government intended to do before its confidence was extended to them. He must see what they meant to do with the Church of Ireland. There were twenty parishes in the county he had the honour to represent, in which not a single Protestant was to be found. Sinecures in the state were much to be reprobated, but what could be so disgraceful as sinecures in the Church?
 Sir Robert Peel  had not so stated. What he said was, that the Dissenters did not desire to interfere with the ecclesiastical discipline of the Church, and as the Church of England had not attempted any interference with the free exercise of the form of worship adopted by the Dis-
 357
 Sir Robert Peel,  on presenting a number of Petitions, praying the House not to pass the Bill to give Dissenters a right to admission into the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, which were also all unanimous in their prayer, that the House would give its sanction to no measure that would tend to the subversion or injury of the Established Church,—observed, that he had heard with great pleasure the manly declaration that had been made that morning by the hon. member for Frome, with respect to the Dissenters. The hon. Gentleman had stated, that he had, on a former occasion, given his vote in favour of the admission of Dissenters to the Universities; but that, in conse-
 355 356
 Mr. Pryme  rose to order. He contended that even the limits of a Committee of the whole House did not enable the hon. Member to answer a paragraph in a Newspaper, or upon a discussion on a Poor-laws Bill to speak in any way respecting the House of Lords.
 Colonel Williams  did not think, that the Commissioners should have the power, under any circumstances, of separating man and wife, inasmuch as it was vesting theca with a power to do that which the law declared illegal.
 Colonel Torrens  considered this the most important, and at the same time, the most delicate, part of the Bill. The allowance system was the worst part of the maladministration of the Poor-laws, and it was at the same time the most difficult to deal with. The single man would, in the natural course of things, receive as much wages as the married man. But the practice of giving parish allowance to the married man, enabled the employer to
 391
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  approved of the clause, and especially with the Amendment which the noble Lord meant to propose. The attempt had been made, in various parishes, to get rid of the allowance system, and the greatest difficulty was, to provide for large families, which could not be maintained upon the wages of the father? The way in which he had known that difficulty to be met was this:—The children above ten years of age were considered independent labourers, and employed as such by the parish, in agricultural work of a light nature, at wages of from 2 s s d
 Mr. Mark Philips  thought that some provision ought to be made to relieve the hand-loom weavers from the operation of this clause, their case being different from that general practice which the clause sought to guard against. In the parish where he resided, there were not less than 200 persons of this description, who received small sums in aid of their wages, and who would starve or go to the workhouse, if that were wholly withdrawn.
 Colonel Evans  rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice on the subject of our relations with Russia. The question was one of great importance, and it required a more full discussion than in the present state of the House, and of the business of the Session, it would be likely to obtain. He was not, under these circumstances, disposed to press its full consideration on the House on this occasion. He would, therefore, without troubling the House by his remarks merely move the resolution which he had prepared, for the purpose of having it entered on the journals not intending to take the sense of the House on it. The hon. and gallant Member read the Resolution to this effect. "That, in the opinion of this House, it will be competent to his Majesty's Government, in conformity with good faith and the law of nations, to suspend, or altogether discontinue the annual payments now made by this country to Russia, should just ground appear for apprehending that the considerations distinctly laid down in the Convention of the 16th of November, 1831 (under which alone these payments can be demanded on the one hand, or justified to the British people on the other), are not faithfully, unequivocally, and com-
 395 l. l.
 Colonel Evans  would not press his Motion to a division. He had not brought it forward to express the slightest disapprobation of the noble Lord's policy; on the contrary—especially as regarded the Peninsula it had his highest approbation.
 Mr. Ruthven  rose, on the spur of the moment to second the Motion of the hon. Member who had just sat down,—a Motion to which he was sure no Irishman could object, but, on the contrary, every Irishman would receive it with delight, inasmuch as, if adopted, it would enable the people to see the monarch who ruled over them more frequently than was at present their good fortune. He regretted, that the proposition should have been received with that mirth which its importance did not merit. He must, however, state, that even if the Motion were carried, the demand of the people of Ireland for repeal would not be put down, for they sought not a partial Parliament, but a permanent Legislature sitting on College-green. He would not trouble the House further than to second the Motion.
 Mr. Vernon Smith  admitted, that one strong reason had been urged for the present Motion, and in which he was sure that the whole country would concur, namely, the extreme difficulty that there would be in finding a person to discharge the duties of the office of Postmaster general so efficiently as they had been performed by the noble Duke who recently filled that office. The candid and manly manner in which that noble Duke treated all those who were called upon to transact business with him, had been a source of general gratification. During the short period of his own public life he never recollected a person with whom he had been called upon to transact business who exhibited more anxiety to perform the duties of his office to the satisfaction of the country, or who had better succeeded in attaining that object. To speak, however, on the question before the House, the hon. Gentleman could not imagine that the House could agree to the present Motion. The hon. Gentleman had stated that, if reference was made to the Reports of the Commissioners of Revenue Inquiry, it would be found that they all concurred in
 406 l. l. 407
 Mr. Wallace,  in reply, said he had not, when he brought his Motion forward, the least expectation that it would be successful; and, therefore, it was not his intention to put the House to the trouble of a division. The reforms which he desired to see effected in this establishment must ultimately be carried; and, although he failed now in the object which he had in view, he should not therefore desist from doing all in his power to accomplish it. He thought, that there was no necessity whatever for having the management of the Post-office placed in the hands of a political officer; and it was his opinion, that the affairs of that department would be best administered if the head of it resided on the spot, and had no other duties to attend to. He agreed, however, with the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down as to the necessity of having one responsible public person at the head of every Board or department; and, if the office of Postmaster-general could only be filled by a Peer of the realm, then he was bound to say, that he should be very glad indeed to see the noble Duke, who had retired from that office, restored to it.
 Mr. Wallace  had to bring under the notice of the House, a subject which he should not at present have introduced, were it not from the peculiar situation in which the matter stood. He alluded to the propriety of putting the office of Postmaster-general under the management of a Board of Commissioners. This course had been strongly recommended by the reports of no less than three different Commissions of Inquiry, and he was satisfied it would not only be beneficial to the public service, but also a measure of very great economy. By the office being put in Commission, a saving and increase of revenue would be effected, amounting together to not less than 200,000 l. 1. 403 l. l. 404
 Mr. Vernon Smith  said, that as the seizure was made on the high seas, and not in the ports of Spain, and as there was a marked difference on that account between the present claim and the Danish
 411
 The Attorney General  rose, in pursuance of the notice he had given, to move for leave to bring in a Bill to abolish Imprisonment for Debt, except in cases of fraud, and to amend the Law of Debtor and Creditor. As he, however, did not anticipate any serious objection in that preliminary stage of the proceeding, he should not find it necessary to occupy much time in explaining the outlines of the measure, which, with the permission of the House, he should have the honour of introducing. He was anxious, in the first place, to justify himself from the imputation of any delay in bringing the subject forward. There was nothing nearer his heart than that imprisonment for debt should be abolished, except in cases of fraud; and, on the first day of the Session, he had accordingly given notice of a Motion for leave to bring in a Bill, in order to accomplish that object; but he ceased to be a Member of that House on the very evening for which his notice stood. The very day, however, on which he was restored to that House, he renewed the notice; and he now rose to make the Motion as expeditiously as possible. He would not go into the general merits of the question, whether there should be the power of arresting for debt or not,—that was a subject which had been very copiously discussed; and those who wished to see the arguments stated at length on one side or on the other, would find them in the fourth Report of the Common Law Commissioners; but there was one authority in which he was disposed to place great reliance, and which had not been generally adverted to—he meant the authority of Edmund Burke, a name illustrious in general philosophical jurisprudence as well as in politics, and which he would shortly refer to on the present occasion. In 1780, a Bill had been introduced into that House for the abolition of Imprisonment for Debt on Mesne Process; it received the support of Mr. Burke; and when he went to Bristol, he was reproached for having given it his
 413 414 l., 415 l. l. l. cessio bonorum 416 l. 417
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  said, there was another point which appeared to have been omitted in the Bill. It was well known, that since the establishment of the Insolvent Debtors' Court, many millions of debts had been proved, and not more than a farthing in the pound had been recovered. Now, though, by the Bill of the Attorney General, execution would issue for the recovery of bills of exchange and bond debts, there was no facility afforded for the recovery of book debts. If some clause were not introduced to provide greater facility for the recovery of book debts, he was afraid the Bill would cause great injury to trade.
 Colonel Davies  said, that concurring in what had fallen from the noble Lord, he would support the Amendment. In his opinion Russia had done nothing to render the stipulations under which this money was now paid forfeited. At the same time he must say, that it had always been his opinion that since the separation of Holland from Belgium, Russia had no legal right to this money. Parliament, however, and the Law Officers of the Crown had decided
 398
 Major Beauclerk  wished to know if it was intended to give to the Commissioners a power to separate man and wife?
 Mr. Aaron Chapman  wished to ask for some explanation of a fact, that a large quantity of tea had been brought into Liverpool from Dantsic, a direct evasion of the late Act passed as to the importation of that article.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  had only that morning heard of the importation of tea to Liverpool to which the hon. Member alluded. It was imported under that clause by which the parties conceived that they had a right to import tea from any place eastward of the Cape of Good Hope. He would not offer any opinion on the Act; but he was not aware that it was liable to the construction thus put on it, and he should be much astonished if any lawyers said it bore that construction.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  assured the hon. Member that he would not on this or any other occasion evade a question put to him. The hon. Member wished to place the
 394
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  laid on the Table a return, showing the quantity of corn imported and ground into flour in the Isle of Man, and in Guernsey and Jersey, and also the quantity of flour imported from those islands into ports of the United Kingdom. In moving, that this return be printed, the right hon. Gentleman observed, that they would show that the alarm which had been excited in some quarters, as to the evasion of the Corn-laws, by the importation of foreign corn into those islands, was unfounded. This return, he had reason to know, was perfectly correct, and would
 393
 Mr. Baines  concurred very much in the general opinion entertained by the hon. member for Oldham, in respect to his objections to this Bill; but he deprecated the use of an expression that was calculated to excite the ill-feeling of the lower classes of society. Many of the evils just complained of by the hon. member for Oldham, were
 390
 Mr. Baines  seconded the Motion, and contended that the cases of the Spanish and Danish claims were identical, and that the course taken with respect to the one furnished a precedent which ought to be followed in the other. The whole amount of the Spanish claims did not exceed 25,000 l. l., l.
 Mr. Grote  said, that those who opposed this clause, overlooked the supplemental clauses which provided for the suggested difficulties. He did not think, that the evils contemplated by the opposers of the clause, would arise.
 Mr. Robinson  said, that the Government had no doubt acted very properly, in the assurance thus given that the landed interest should have the benefit of the Cornlaws as long as they continued the law of the land. But he should be glad to hear from the right hon. Gentleman, why the Government had not applied the same principle to the laws now in force respecting the timber trade? He was not going to enter into any discussion as to the policy of either of those laws—that was not the question; but he would ask why a fraudulent evasion of the law in regard to the timber-trade should be permitted, more than an evasion of the Corn-laws? It was well known, however, that Baltic timber was carried to the Canadas, and from thence imported into this country, paying only the duty of Canada timber. The hon. member for London, who it was well-known entertained very different views from him on the subject of the timber-duties, moved a few evenings ago for an account of the quantity of Baltic timber brought into this country by way of Canada, and that was done with the view to show the impolicy of the timber-duties as they now existed. He would ask, would the Government have lent themselves to a similar course for the purpose of showing the impolicy of the Corn-laws? He asked the Government—and he hoped he should get a direct answer from the right hon. Gentleman, why should the timber be required to pay duty in the one case, and be exempted from it in the other? He must say, that this was done to create a prejudice in the public mind against the timber-duties. He repeated, that he did not object to give the landed interest the benefit of the Corn-laws as long as they existed; but he would ask that the same principle be applied to the timber-trade.
 Mr. Robinson  admitted, that the present system of allowing wages out of the rates to agricultural labourers, was highly objectionable, but he was bound to look to the effect of the alteration of this part of the present system, by the clause now before the House, and he very much feared that the effect of the alteration would be, to create an increase of pauperism, because, if the poor were not able to get permanent employment, the Commissioners would have no power, should relief be applied for, but to send these labourers to the workhouse. If such were the effect of this clause, could the noble Lord contemplate what would be the number of workhouses that would be necessary to contain all these pauper labourers?
 Mr. Robinson  condemned the practice of granting Committees for the purposes of giving individual redress without rigid proof of the just claims of the parties. He should protest, in behalf of his constituents, against a series of proceedings which he thought at once unconstitutional and injurious.
 Mr. Hardy  hoped, that some provision would be made to exempt the persons employed in the hardware trade, from the operation of the clause. It was customary when that trade was slack, for the employer, instead of giving his men 14 s. s.
 Mr. Richards  said, that on moral grounds there was no difference between the Spanish and Danish claimants. Both suffered injury in consequence of our attacking other countries without a declaration of war. A member of the Spanish Cortes was at that moment sitting under the gallery.  ["Oh, oh."]
 Mr. Hume  thought the whole proceeding very strange. No Committee was appointed—no petition was presented—but forsooth on a simple proposition of an hon. Member public money was to be voted away without remonstrance or inquiry, a course unheard of in Parliament. He would take the opportunity of observing, that the present Motion made it necessary to institute an inquiry into the appropriation of the droits of Admiralty, and necessary to introduce a very different practice with regard to them. It was high time that the plunder of innocent individuals on the high seas should not be considered as one of the prerogatives of the Crown.
 Mr. Hume  seconded the Motion. His hon. friend had forgotten to state a very important reason why the Postmaster-general should not be a political man, but which had been mentioned by the Commissioners. In consequence of the Postmaster-general being a political agent, he was changed with every Administration, and the result was, that the management of the department was left in the hands of the Secretary. This had been the case for the last thirty-five years. He did not wish to say anything harsh of the individual who held the office of Secretary, and he admitted that, during the time that Sir F. Freeling had held that office, he had assiduously attended to and faithfully discharged his public duties. It was impossible, however, for any one to doubt, who had read the Reports on the Table, that there was no department of Government in which fewer improvements had been made during the last fifteen years than in the Post-office. He did not allude to the last three or four years, in which time there certainly had been made many desirable changes. If, however, the Post-office had been under the management of Commissioners instead of a Postmaster-general, he had no doubt that a very different state of things would exist there from what obtained at present. Had proper attention been paid, the present inequality of postage, which caused so many complaints, would not exist. Why not manage the Post-office as the Excise, Customs, and Stamps, namely, have Commissioners, who should be directed to communicate with one of the Lords of the Treasury in cases of
 405
 Mr. Hume  agreed with the hon. Member, that Russia had no legal claim to this money after the separation of Belgium from Holland, though he voted at the time for the Bill under which the payments were made as a matter of policy. Of this he was certain, that Russia had not fulfilled the conditions under which those payments were guaranteed to her. He would ask the noble Lord whether the differences which existed between Belgium and Holland might not long ago have been put an end to, if Holland had not been encouraged to hold out and resist through the secret influence and machinations of Russia? The conviction on his mind was, that the influence of Russia had been chiefly, if not solely exercised, to prevent a settlement of that question. He was aware, that we were not in a position to prove this against Russia, but it was nevertheless a notorious matter, and he was of opinion that under such circumstances this country would be fully justified in withholding the payment of this money, seeing that Russia had not fulfilled the conditions according to which its payment had been stipulated. Though he could not vote for the Resolution proposed by the hon. member for Westminster, he thought it right to state his opinion on the subject.
 Mr. Lalor  felt bound to support the Motion, and he hoped the hon. Member would press it to a division.
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  recommended an alteration of the clause, excepting from its operation families of six and seven children, and fixing the time at which the Bill should come into operation, with respect to such families at different periods.
 Dr. Lushington  said, that he felt the utmost difficulty in bringing his mind to any conclusion on the case which his noble friend (Lord Ebrington) had brought under the consideration of the House; but he could not agree with his noble friend (Lord Althorp) that there was so obvious a distinction between the two cases, as that the one should be treated differently from the other. It was contrary to the law of nations to confiscate property not afloat at the commencement of a war, and if the attack which this country had made upon Copenhagen had been justified would not the Danish claims have been rejected? He could see no distinction between the two cases on the ground of lapse of time, and he had yet to be convinced that the capture of the Spanish frigates, which had led to the sequestration of the property of these claimants, was other than a violation of the law of nations—an act of atrocious, cold-blooded cruelty, perpetrated during a time of peace. Such were his feelings with respect to this capture; and did not the massacre of some of the noblest families connected with Spain, who were returning in these frigates from South America to their native country, produce in the minds of the inhabitants of Cadiz a feeling that rendered it very difficult indeed to bring the negotiations for peace in 1808 to a satisfactory conclusion?
 Mr. Bish  rose to move, pursuant to his notice, that an humble Address should be presented to his Majesty, praying "that he will be graciously pleased to hold his Court and Parliament occasionally in that part of the kingdom called Ireland." Such a proposition was no party measure; it was, on the contrary, one which might be supported by all sides of the House—by Whigs, Tories, and Radicals, by Protestants and Catholics, by men of every religion, and of every shade in politics, by Repealers and anti-Repealers—in short, by all the Members in that House. He was sure that, if a Repeal of the Union should take place, it would be the ruin of the country. He
 399 400 401 402
 Mr. Blamire  suggested, that it would be expedient to give to the overseers of parishes, where there were no guardians, the discretionary power to relieve applicants on his own responsibility, and subject to the consent of the Commissioners.
 Mr. Cobbett  replied, that if the paupers did wrong there was the law to punish them as well as any other offenders.
 Mr. Cobbett  would insist upon it that he was perfectly in order. He was showing, that even the portion of the people who were accused of being revolutionary and seditious in their designs when calling for
 389
 Mr. Cobbett  proposed the following Amendment:—"Provided always, that no regulation be made by which husbands shall be separated from wives, children from their parents, and parents from their children; or for shaving the hair off paupers; or compelling such as seek relief in the workhouses to wear badges, or put distinctive dresses on." If the House, he maintained, did not affirm his Motion, it would tacitly approve the principle which was meant to be negatived by it. It might be said, in answer to this observation, that no such thing as his Motion went to provide against would ever be practised, and that, therefore, there was no necessity for it. Why then, he asked, not say such things should not be, if the intention to put them into execution were not the object? It
 386 l l l 387 san benitos, 388 Here there were loud cries of "Question."
 Sir Henry Willoughby  said the hon. member for Oldham might omit those parts of his Amendment which went to deprive the guardians of all power over the paupers.
 Lord Althorp  said, as a general principle the Commissioners would not have the power of separating man and wife, but there might occur cases where it would be necessary to make this separation.
 Lord Althorp  meant to propose an Amendment to enable those parishes which could easily abolish the allowance system to do so at once, and to leave it for other parishes in which the system could not be abolished at once, to bring the clause gradually into operation.
 Lord Althorp  said, that no man knew better than the hon. Member himself, that the House, in rejecting the Amendment, would not be expressing an opinion in favour of the practice which it sought to prohibit. As well indeed might he argue that the House, in rejecting a clause (supposing it to be proposed as part of the Bill under discussion) having for its object to prevent the hon. Member saying the same thing ten times over in the one speech, were desirous of hearing the same argument repeated, as that the House of Commons in negativing his Amendment were favourable to the practices against which it was directed. He had further only to say, that it was not intended as a general rule that a man should be separated from his wife, or children from their mother, or that paupers should have their hair shaved or be compelled to wear badges. The Commissioners, however, were to be vested with power to deviate, in case they found it expedient, in particular instances.
 Lord Althorp  said, the power was given to overseers equally with guardians by the proviso at the end of the clause. In the cases supposed, of work being slack, they seldom occurred so rapidly as not to allow of an application to the Commissioners.
 Lord Althorp  knew, from the labourers he himself employed, though he did not give them higher wages than other farmers, that men who were industrious were able to support large families. He believed
 392
 Lord Althorp  said, that no one could possibly be more constant or unremitting in his attention to the duties of his office than his noble friend the Duke of Richmond had been; and, if his successor
 408
 Lord Althorp  must protest against the course which his noble friend had adopted. Many Gentlemen who took an interest in the matter had left the House under the impression that the Motion would not come on that night. He must say, that there was no analogy whatever between these claims and the Danish claims. The two cases were distinct from each other; they stood upon totally different grounds, and if they were to entertain this case
 410
 Lord Ebrington  said, that the Motion which he wished to submit to the House had for its object the satisfaction of the claims of certain British subjects for compensation, in return for the loss they sustained in consequence of the confiscation of their property by Spain, arising out of the seizure of six Spanish vessels. The Act of which they complained was considered by many persons at the time as one of very questionable justice, especially by the noble Earl now at the head of his Majesty's Government, who made it the subject of a specific Motion. He had no wish, however, to enter into the merits of the case, he was merely desirous of stating the facts on which he rested his case. Various applications had been made by those persons for remuneration. He himself was one of a deputation in 1818—at which period he represented the county which he had still the honour to represent—which waited on the Government, and he could undertake to say, that the justice of the claim was never disputed, but the remuneration was always thrown upon Spain. On the other hand, a variety of applications were made to the Spanish
 409 l.
 Lord Palmerston  did not rise to dispute the proposition contained in the Resolution of the hon. and gallant Member, for he admitted, that it was not only the right but the duty of Great Britain to suspend the payments under the treaty, if it were proved that Russia had not fulfilled her part of the treaty. Beyond that point, however, he could not go with the hon. and gallant Member. He could not concur with him, that any reason had yet been afforded for suspending or refusing payment. On this ground he could not vote for the Resolution, which seemed to imply a suspicion of want of faith, as well as a condemnation of the acts of Russia, and he should meet it by moving the previous question. The hon. and gallant Member appeared to think, that the Convention had a wider scope than really belonged to it. If the House not only attended to the words of it, but would call to mind the manner in which it was framed, and the circumstances that led to it, the House would find, that it did not bear so extended an application. Before he touched upon the history of the Convention, he would state the difference between his understanding of it and that of the hon. and gallant Member. The hon. Member seemed to think, that the condition attached applied to all the affairs of Europe coming within the scope of a Treaty; but, in fact, it applied solely to the Treaty with Belgium and the Treaty of Vienna. There had been a former agreement between Great Britain and Russia—a condition of forfeiture, should there be a separation between Belgium and Holland. A separation did occur, but not in the manner contemplated by the framers of the original
 396 397
 Mr. George  Wood said, he should be prepared to bring forward the Bill for the admission of Dissenters into the Universities in the morning sitting of Tuesday next.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought the House was already sufficiently pestered with lawyers, not to postpone the public convenience for their accommodation. It was extraordinary, that any set of gentlemen, however respectable they might be, should think that the House ought to prefer their particular interests to the public business. They ought to recollect, that many hon. Gentlemen in that House were obliged to come from the remote parts of Ireland and Scotland to attend their duties there. In his opinion, the House would never
 427
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  thought it dangerous to oust the old Magistrates from their jurisdiction, and to transfer their powers to bodies which might, like the Select Vestries, work well at first, but afterwards conduct the business ill and negligently.
 The Attorney General  objected to the burglary Clause, which he considered would leave the law in a state of greater absurdity than at present. It was intended that no man should be punished with death unless he entered a house with his whole body, it being now sufficient, in order to constitute a burglary, that a pane of glass be broken. But the getters-up of burglaries, and the most guilty persons, aiding in the crime, if they abstained from entering the house, would escape capital punishment. It was well known, that the practice was, for those who planned the offence to induce boys to get inside, and thus the guilty would, if this clause were continued, escape the severer punishment. With every disposition to abate the severity of our law, he could not consent to this clause.
 Colonel Davies  said, that the discussion of the principle of any measure must necessarily, by consuming the time of the House, interrupt the proceedings of the Committee on the Poor-laws' Amendment Bill. He, therefore, thought it desirable to finish the Committee on that Bill before any new business was taken up.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that his object was, to introduce a Bill, founded upon the Resolution of the Committee for the reduction of these dues, whereby the city of London would be benefited
 434 l.
 Mr. Robinson  admitted, that the noble Lord was entitled to every indulgence for carrying on the business of the Government; but he thought that some means should be adopted to prevent so large a mass of business from being thrown into the arena for discussion on every evening. It was a common thing to see twenty Orders of the Day and as many notices of motion fixed for one evening, and for a succession of evenings, though it was well known that a twentieth part of them could not be gone through. It was shameful to have the business of any deliberative assembly carried on in that manner. Much of the inconvenience would be obviated, if Ministers would bring on the public business at an earlier period of the Session.
 Mr. Goring  also denied the correctness of the hon. Member's allegations. If that hon. Member would look to his own writings he would find the true cause of the burnings and riots to which he had referred. Had that hon. Member forgotten the case of Goodman, and the confession made by that unfortunate individual previous to his ascending the scaffold, that the writings and speeches of the hon. member for Oldham had induced him to commit those crimes of incendiarism for which he was about to suffer?
 Mr. Goring  had seen the original confession, and to show that there had been no fabrication in the document, the first name appended to it as a witness was that of the sheriff of the place.
 Mr. Goulburn  objected to bringing forward so important a Bill as that mentioned by the hon. Member in a morning sitting. It was not to be expected that public business could commence before one o'clock, and at three o'clock the sitting must necessarily terminate.
 Mr. Emerson Tennent  held in his hand a Petition, to which he felt a more than ordinary anxiety to direct the attention of the House, as well from the intrinsic importance of its prayer, as from the fact of its deeply involving the interests of one class of the community, in whose behalf, whatever differences of opinion might exist with regard to other points connected with the Church of Ireland, he (Mr. Emerson Tennent) believed there existed but one feeling of respect, and, he regretted to add, of commiseration; he referred to the working clergy of the Established Church in that country. Their present appeal was one directed, not to the feelings of the House as sectarians or partisans, but to their sense of justice as Legislators, and to their feelings of humanity as men; and he trusted although he was not prepared to bring forward any specific motion on the subject of the petition, this notice of its prayer
 422 423 anni non; l. s. d. l., 424 425
 Mr. Halcomb  begged distinctly to contradict the hon. Member. He had himself been present at the trials in Hampshire, and the hon. Member was quite wrong in his assertions.
 Mr. Hardy  withdrew the Amendment.
 Mr. Hardy  had proposed an Amendment on Thursday, to enable overseers or guardians to grant relief in cases of emergency, without making beforehand a statement of the circumstances to the Commissioners. It would be unjust and cruel to deprive the poor of such a resource in case of emergency, and he therefore should press his Amendment.
 Mr. Pease  thought the Amendment was called for. It was a mistake to suppose that there was no making up of wages by the poor-rates in manufacturing districts.
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  contended, that the security of the pauper population for relief depended upon the reservation of the power to Justices of the Peace to order it. In this opinion he was supported by the provisions of every enactment relating to the relief of the poor which had passed during the last 300 years, commencing in the year 1536, and such powers were embodied in the statutes, 27th Henry 8th; 5th, 14th, and 23rd Elizabeth; 3rd and 4th William and Mary, and in every Statute down to the Act of 1796. He must, therefore, ask the House to pause before it consented to do away with the astringent and compulsory powers to order relief, and in their stead erect merely a voluntary and discretionary power in other individuals. He was borne out in this feeling by the answers which had been given to the queries generally circulated by the Poor-law Commissioners themselves. He must advert to one of the queries, which was in these terms—"What do you think would be the immediate and ultimate effect of making the decisions of the Select Vestry or the guardians of the poor final on questions of relief?" He begged the House to bear in mind the answer to that query, from at least two-thirds of those to whom it had been put, and who included not only Magistrates, but vestrymen, guardians of the poor, clergymen, and overseers. The replies had been—"Great injustice to the poor; the effect would be starvation, and the result of this change would be cruel tyranny and oppressive injustice upon the pauper population of this country." He was still further assisted in his opposition to this change by the opinions of no less than two of the sub-commissioners, Mr. M'Clean and Captain Chapman. The House ought not to forget, that, by the adoption of the last clause, they had already gone very far in trenching upon the vested rights of relief—rights which had accumulated during the last forty years, for it should be remembered, that the Statute of 1796 declared, that under all circumstances, the pauper was entitled to relief at his own home. He, on the whole, contended, that the power of a bench of justices, comprising three, four, or five, should still have the power reserved to them under preceding Statutes. He should, therefore, move an Amendment to the effect "of reserving a power to two
 431
 Mr. Bernal  admitted, that there were and must be, unavoidable anomalies in dealing with the law upon this subject; but he trusted, that the hon. and learned Gentleman would not press his objection to this clause.
 Mr. Slaney  thought it would be advisable to leave some mitigated power to the Magistrates.
 Mr. Cobbett  remarked, that this Clause would place the labouring classes in a worse condition than they were at present. He trusted, that he should never see the system that was so much lauded, and so often referred to in the north of England, introduced into the south. With regard to the Clause itself, he would just say this—that they had now under their control three countries; one of them had meat and bread and knives and forks, the other had oatmeal and brose and horn spoons, and the third had only potatoes and paws. In the first country he had mentioned, a system of Poor-laws had been in existence for 240 years—in the second they had an inefficient system of Poor-laws—and in the third there were no Poor-laws at all, and the object of this Bill was, to reduce the first country to the condition of the last.
 Mr. Cobbett  objected to the principle of passing a Bill founded on voluminous reports of Commissioners, the one-twentieth part of which not one Member in 100 had read. Was this the way in which the business was to be done in a Reformed Parliament? He thought, that in-
 428 Althorp:
 Mr. Cobbett  maintained, that the clause would create a parcel of paid overseers, who would be the curse of the country. Paid overseers had produced all the riots and burnings in Hampshire  ["No, no."] ["No, no."] [laughter.]
 Mr. Cobbett  said, the clause would deprive the Magistrates throughout the country of all their authority, and convert them into mere beggar-whippers, objects of contempt among those over whom they had hitherto exercised a very wholesome authority.
 Mr. Cobbett  denied having ever uttered the sentiments which the paper, purporting to be the confession of Goodman ascribed to him; and stated that 103 respectable individuals from Battle were ready to confirm his declaration. In fact, it had been proved at the trial that
 433
 Mr. Ewart  said, that, though the Bill might be open to some objections, yet upon the whole he thought there could be no doubt that the proposed alteration was preferable to the existing law.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  expressed his determination to support the Amendment, not with the view of maintaining the
 432
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  said, that if it was the general understanding that Government Orders should take precedence on Wednesdays, no other measures but those introduced by Government would have any chance of being discussed.
 Sir James Scarlett  said, that if those who had the control of that House wished to exclude professional men, they would proceed with public business in the morning. He did not think the plan of doing business in the morning any improvement on the old practice.
 Sir James Scarlett  was sure, that if the hon. and learned Gentleman's proposition of sitting in the morning were agreed to, the House would not be less pestered than at present with lawyers; but then they would be exclusively Irish lawyers.
 Sir John Wrottesley  was opposed to the Amendment, and ready to rely on private charity for meeting all cases of emergency.
 Sir George Phillips  was glad that the noble Lord dissented from the Amendment. Such an Amendment would bring the vicious administration of the agricultural districts into the towns. The Bill would be inoperative if the necessary control which this and other Clauses gave to the Central Board were withdrawn.
 Sir Robert Peel  had no objection to allowing the Government to take precedence on Wednesday; but he wished to impress upon the noble Lord the absolute necessity of fixing some immediate day for the discussion of those measures which were of the most pressing public importance. The right hon. Gentleman opposite, on the 20th of February last, called the attention of the House to that part of his Majesty's Speech which referred to tithes in Ireland; and, though it was now the 13th of June, being a lapse of no less than four months, nothing definite had been done, notwithstanding the great public
 426
 Lord Althorp,  before he moved the Order of the Day for the Committee on the Poor-laws' Amendment Bill, begged to call the attention of hon. Members to a proposition he desired to make connected with the business of the House. Though it had been settled that the mornings of Tuesday and Thursday should be set apart for the Committee on the Poor-laws' Amendment Bill, it did not appear to him that any very great progress had been made in the Bill during the morning sittings. It had also been determined that, during the present Session, Orders of the Day should on Wednesday take precedence in the order in which they stood on the paper; and as yet no request had been made to any hon. Member to postpone the consideration of any order fixed for Wednesdays, for the purpose of allowing the Government business to be brought on. Under these circumstances, he was induced to propose, that Government orders should in future have precedence on Wednesdays, as they had on Mondays and Fridays, with the understanding, that henceforth Government would not ask for precedence on the mornings of Tuesday and Thursday.
 Lord Althorp  said, that if such a power were given to the overseers without application to the general Board, it would defeat the whole object of the Bill. He had before admitted, that in cases of individual emergency there should be a power to grant relief by the overseer, but
 429
 Lord Althorp  did not see that Ministers were to blame. The estimates were brought forward at an early period, and occupied the House nearly the whole of the time, or at least a considerable portion of it, until Easter; and the other business of the Government was brought forward as soon as possible after.
 Lord Althorp  admitted, that the effect of this clause would take away the power of Magistrates to order relief out of the workhouse in places where workhouses existed, or in united parishes in which there were guardians of the poor. But, on the other hand, where there were no workhouses and no select vestries, the power was reserved to the Magistrates to order relief precisely as they now possessed that power.
 Lord Althorp  conceived, that the Amendment deserved consideration. It had certainly occurred to the Government, on framing this Bill, that in order to bring the Poor-laws into that state in which they ought to be, it would be right to take away the power now contended for, under the supposition, that in practice it had led to many evils that had been complained of. He denied, that the clause took away the positive right of the pauper to relief, for which the hon. Member had contended, and still further he denied that such positive right existed under the present laws, for, on the contrary, the ordering relief was discretionary in the breast of any individual Magistrate. As to what had been said with respect to the severity likely to prevail on the vestries and the guardians of the poor, he must observe, that he did not think it at all probable they would prove as hard-hearted as was imputed to them. He considered, too, that the discretion given to these bodies would be at the least as well executed as that previously granted to Magistrates. At the same time, considering that the opinion of the House was in favour of the Bill as it stood, he should rather abide by its decision, than urge strongly his own views.
 Lord Althorp  had not heard anything to convince him of the propriety of the Amendment which had been proposed. He did not think the evils which some hon. Gentlemen seemed to deprecate, were likely to occur. The Board of Guardians was so constituted, that it would, in his opinion, lead to a most satisfactory and well-regulated provision for the deserving industrious poor; and as to the interference of the Magistrates, although in some cases it might have been advantageous, it was in no way generally essential, or even advisable in the administration of the Poor-laws.
 Lord Morpeth  thought, that these complaints were rather hard on the Government, one party complaining that the Government did nothing, and another section objecting that it did too much. No arrangement to save the time of the House and advance the despatch of business would be of any avail, unless hon. Gentlemen agreed to a curtailment of their frequent addresses to the House.
 Mr. Wolryche Whitmore  said, that he was anxious to trouble the House with a few observations respecting this clause. Provided it were fairly considered, it would
 452 453 454 l. l. l. 455 l. 456
 Colonel Torrens  had heard with great satisfaction the speech of his hon. friend, the member for Wolverhampton. The principles therein so ably propounded were peculiarly applicable to the actual state of the country, and to the Bill before the House. He had from the first distinctly stated, that he approved the principles upon which it was proposed to reform the administration of the Poor-laws; but while he approved of the principle of the Bill which had been introduced, he conceived that several of its provisions were of too stringent a character, and could not be carried into practical effect without considerable difficulty. He regarded the Bill as a species of high-pressure engine, which, without the safety-valve of emigration, could not be worked except at the hazard of destructive explosion. The allowance system, paying the industrious labourer not wholly by his employer, but partly out of the parish-rates, was the great abomination of the Poor-laws, which had degraded the rural population, which had reversed the progressive improvement of society, and had brought back a worse than feudal system, reducing the people to predial bondage, and rendering them serfs and villeins on the soil. But how was this abomination to be got rid of? The 46th clause, abolishing the allowance system, would work well in those agricultural parishes in which there was not a surplus population. In these the operation of the clause would be, to withdraw from the labour-market the labourers with large families who were partly supported from the parish; this would reduce the supply of labour below the demand, and raise wages until they became sufficiently high to afford married labourers with families independent support. This remedial process, however, would not take
 457 458 459 460 461 462
 Mr. Denison,  in supporting the clause, mentioned the following case, in illustration of the advantages of emigration. A parish being overwhelmed with the amount of its poor-rate, induced by a surplus population, sent seventy labourers out to Canada, provided with tools and some money, the expense being defrayed half by voluntary contributions, and half out of the poor-rate. The result had been most advantageous to all parties; the labourers had got constant employment at 4 s. s. s.
 Mr. Secretary Rice  felt it his duty to trouble the Committee with a few observations in reply to what had fallen from the hon. member for Oldham. In the first place, he must express the satisfaction with which he heard the sentiments which his hon. friend, the member for Wolverhampton, expressed on the subject of this Bill; with the justice of which, no individual who had carefully watched the progress of the measure, could fail to be struck. Those observations were most gratifying, not only in so far as they related to the disposition of the House to support the Bill, but as they described its tendency to improve the condition of the poor. With regard to the observations of the hon. member for Oldham, he hoped he should be excused for saying, that the hon. Member had confounded facts, and invented statements, in a manner peculiarly his own, and which certainly entitled him to the merit of arguing in a manner which rendered it almost impossible to cope with him. For instance, if it were to be conceded to the hon. Gentleman, that in the whole of the colonial possessions of this country, we had nothing but swamps and rocks on which to employ labourers, the House would, undoubtedly, have to deal with one of the most monstrous clauses that ever was introduced. But how could the hon. Gentleman risk his credit by volunteering such a statement as that? Was the hon. Gentleman, then, prepared to risk his credit before the House and the country, knowing, as he did, the means which almost every Gentleman in the House possessed, of forming a judgment on the point, that the colonial possessions of this country presented nothing to the industry of British settlers but swamps and rocks? The assertion was a specimen of the kind of reasoning which the hon. Gentleman had employed, not only on the emigration clause, but on every principle and every detail of the Bill. He asked the House to judge of the hon. Gentleman's assertions, in other instances, by the accuracy of this; and if they found this to be wrong,
 467 468 l. 469 l. l., l. l. 470 471
 Major Handley  warned the Government, and the Gentlemen connected with the landed interest, against a measure which they were told, was to have the same effect as letting the people have cheap corn from abroad. It would be as great an injury to the landed interest for the people, who ought to stop at home and eat the corn grown in this country, to go abroad and carry their capital with them, to grow food for themselves abroad, as it would be to let foreign corn come into the country. He hoped the Government would be upon its guard. Certainly the quarter from which the proposition came— he could not forget, that the hon. member for Wolverhampton was the great champion of the anti-Corn-law system—and the persons who supported it, were enough to make the gentlemen connected with land regard it with suspicion. He should, however, reserve what he had further to say upon the subject till the Motion was regularly before them, as he presumed the hon. Member would withdraw his Motion.
 Mr. Whitmore  said, that, after the ample discussion which the subject had undergone, he certainly should not press his Amendment to a division.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that those who talked so much about the causes of the surplus population, as it was called, of Ireland, evidently knew nothing whatever about the real state of that country. Why, it was notorious, that more than one half of the land in Ireland was out of cultivation, and yet people talked of a surplus population. The apparent surplus population, for it was nothing else, and the bad consequences that followed, proceeded solely from the long-continued misgovernment and misrule under which that country laboured, and he was sorry to see that the present Government seemed as fresh to continue that misrule as if it had never been tried; but, thanks be to God, they would fail of success in this as in everything else.
 Lord Granville Somerset  said, he should not now go into a discussion of the subject, involved in the clauses that had been withdrawn. He should only say, that he was very glad the noble Lord had withdrawn those clauses, because they were calculated to do much mischief. He wished only to ask the noble Lord two questions. First, whether in the settlement that was to be acquired by holding a tenement, the value of the tenement itself was to be taken into account, or was it only the rate that was paid on it? Would the payment of 1 l.
 Colonel Perceval  considered it one of the greatest outrages that could be committed, to take away the Word of God, without the consent of the poor creatures, as stated by his hon. friend (Mr. Shaw,) and confirmed by the hon. member for
 445 446
 Mr. O'Dwyer  said, that the Archbishop of Dublin had already paid every attention to this affair, and he thought the whole matter was to be attributed to the attempts of certain fanatical gentlemen of the Establishment, one of whom had improperly interfered with the priest, and the latter seemed to have retaliated in a very improper manner certainly; but he begged the House to suspend their judgment on the case.
 Mr. C. Fitzsimon  denied, that it was necessary for a Roman Catholic to have the written permission, or indeed any permission from his priest, to have a Bible in his possession. He stood there as an avowed Roman Catholic, and he defied contradiction to his statement.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  said, the fact that the priest could get no one to assist him in this act, was a proof of the morality of the people of Queen's County.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that he must beg the particular attention of the House to a petition which he had to present; it was of a very uncommon nature, and one which it was extremely painful to him to bring forward. It related to an act committed by a Roman Catholic clergyman, which had caused a great sensation, and given very just offence in the neighbourhood in which it occurred: it was the ostentatious burning of a Bible at Shinrone, in the King's County, at noon-day, in the most public manner, and under very aggravating circumstances. He did not desire to accompany the presentation of the petition with a single observation that could give rise to an unpleasant discussion in the House, or hurt the feelings of any person out of the House. It was, however, right, that the facts should be known; and it was, moreover, his duty to call the attention of the House to the petition, which was most respectfully, and, indeed, mildly worded, as well as most respectably and numerously signed. He should, on that point, have been glad to have referred to the members of the King's County, had they been in their places. It was signed by about 600 persons, including the names
 441 442
 Mr. Finch  said, it was a matter of great importance, that the Protestants of England should know the true spirit and character of the Church of Rome—particularly at the present moment, when it was not at all improbable, that a Motion would be submitted to the House for the purpose of diverting a portion of the revenues from the uses of the Established Church and appropriating them to the Church of Rome. Every one who was at all acquainted with Ireland must know the influence the Roman Catholic priests possessed, and how that influence was used to prevent the people from reading the Bible. If any person was found with a Bible in his possession without permission from the priest, remission of his sins was refused him. [ "No." de libris prohibitis, 444
 Mr. Grote  hoped, that the hon. member for Wolverhampton would withdraw his Amendment. In his opinion, no possible mischief could arise from the clause as it stood. He would go further. He was fully persuaded that the effect of the clause would be most highly beneficial to all parties. He was perfectly astonished how any one could interpret it into a sentence of transportation. The clause did not contain a word which, as it appeared to him, could be legitimately twisted into an intention of forcing any one to emigrate. All it said was, that if any person, wishing to better himself in another country, chose to emigrate, Government would facilitate his transmission to that country.
 Mr. Benett  would not concede that there was any surplus population. The dreadful distress which pervaded the country was attributable to nothing of the sort. The whole and sole cause of that distress consisted in the overwhelming embargo which was laid upon the industry and capital of the country connected with land, in the shape of enormous taxation. Human labour was the wealth of the country, and the more we sent abroad, the more we must really impoverish the country. The meanest beast we had—an ass for instance—was worth 15 s.
 Mr. Plumptre  supported the prayer of the petition, and said, that there could be no doubt but that the members of the Church of Rome in Ireland were tyrannically deprived of the use of the Bible. The conduct of the priest on the occasion alluded to was of a disgraceful and afflicting nature, and he could scarcely conceive any crime of a higher character, than depriving persons who were willing to consult it, of the holy volume.
 Mr. Hume  was surprised at the assertion of the hon. Member; for he had himself complained of taxation as one of the main sources of the evils of the country till he was almost tired. It had, however, nothing to do with the question now before the House. He approved of the motion of the hon. member for Wolverhampton, because it involved the principles he much wished to see established, viz.—a parliamentary authority given to the proper mode of selling Crown-lands, and the appropriation of the produce to purposes advantageous to the colonists themselves. They had the testimony of the hon. member for Northamptonshire and the hon. member for Surrey in favour of the advantages
 474
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  could not vote for the Motion of the hon. member for Kent. He had himself a notice of motion on the book, that no able-bodied pauper should be compelled to lodge in a workhouse, unless he refused the offer of emigration free of expense. Though he was friendly to the introduction of Poor-laws into Ireland, he could not vote for the amendment with his Motion undisposed of.
 Mr. Godson  said, that if the poor were bound to be relieved, it was not sufficient to have that relief administered to them in the shape of emigration, and by sending them away into foreign lands. In words they had repealed the statute of Elizabeth, since the power granted to the Commissioners did away with the stipulations of that Act. There was a very material question to be discussed, namely, whether the poor had a right to relief, and he thought it should be known whether they had or had not, before the Bill under the consideration of the House was passed, and became the law of the land. If they had no such right to relief, then must they be satisfied with the amount of charity doled out to them. A long time back, when St. Augustin was in this country, the question as to the right of the poor to be relieved out of tithes was propounded to Pope Gregory, and his Holiness then decided, that the poor had a right to one-fourth of the amount of tithes. Now, when Government repealed the Act of Elizabeth, by which compensation was allowed to the poor, he thought they were throwing back the poor on their original right to a portion of the tithes, and he considered that then the question would be very naturally raised about the rights of those who possessed all abbey-lands, as well as about all tithes held by lay impropriators. He did not mean to detain the House, or prevent it from going into Committee; but he thought, that before the Bill was finally dispossd of, the question as to the rights of the poor to relief ought to be maturely discussed.
 Mr. Slaney  defended the clause. He did not think there was any particular danger to be apprehended from the influx of Irish labourers, as there was no redundancy of population in the counties nearest to Ireland, while there was a redundancy in the southern counties of England.
 Mr. Hodges  contended, that it was monstrous to establish such a principle as that parishes should be allowed to borrow money for such a purpose as that of expatriating Englishmen in order that their places might be supplied by Irishmen.—He for one should feel it his duty to resist so unjust a proposition, and therefore, he should, at the proper time, move an addition to the clause to the effect— "Provided always that no sum of money for any such purpose as aforesaid shall be raised and expended until some provision for the relief of the poor of Ireland be by law established."
 Mr. Hodges  admitted, that in his own parish great benefit had resulted from emigration; but he had gone a particular way to work, and if every parish were to do the same, he should not object to the measure. He found out the number of men wanted to bring the land into the highest state of cultivation of which it was susceptible, and then he offered emigration to a certain number, who with their families accepted the offer, and went to the United States, and the rest were taken into employment. Wages rose in consequence, and those who went out were perfectly satisfied with their condition. But it was difficult to balance the demand and supply at all seasons of the year. He should press his Motion to a division, as he felt that it was a proposi-
 477
 Mr. Cartwright  supported the clause; and mentioned a case in his own neighbourhood, where, out of a parish containing eight hundred persons, one hundred had emigrated to Upper Canada, with the
 473
 Mr. Cobbett  was greatly surprised to hear an hon. Member attribute the surplus population to the Poor-laws. There were no Poor-laws in Ireland; and would any man say, that there was no surplus population in that country? He could not but disapprove of the system of sending some of the best part of the agricultural labourers out of the country when the land was not half cultivated at home.
 Mr. Cobbett,  must, at the risk of being designated a barbarian, take the liberty of expressing his hatred and abhorrence of the cruel Bill,—especially of the clause of which the hon. Gentleman was so fond. How stood the fact as it was placed before the House by the Report of the Committee of which the right hon. Baronet, lately the first Lord of the Admiralty, was president?—a Committee, composed of twenty-seven gentlemen of the first estates, and he might say, of the first talents in England,—that Committee reported, on evidence which they laid before the House, that the lands of England were greatly deteriorated in consequence of sufficient labour not being bestowed upon them; that some were wholly ruined for want of cultivation, that a great portion was only one-half cultivated, and others only one-third. And what was the cause of this? Why, the farmer had not money enough to pay labourers. The hon. member for Wolverhampton said, that although capital was not to be found for employment in England,—plenty of capital was to be found for the cultivation of the woods in Nova Scotia. He could assure the hon. Member, whatever he might have heard from land-jobbers and speculators,—and by no one else could he be so deceived,—and they would deceive Satan himself,—that there was no such good land to cultivate in Nova Scotia as the refuse of Bagshot Heath. The lands of England needed cultivating, because the farmers had not the money to pay for labour; and yet they were to pass a law to compel or induce them to give money to labourers to go
 463 464 465 466
 Mr. Cobbett  rose to move the Resolution of which he had given notice. The hon. Member read the Resolution as follows:—"That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire whether it be just and expedient to enact, that, before any as-
 447 448 449 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 450
 Mr. Alderman Copeland  did not rise to prolong the discussion; but, having taken pains to ascertain the facts of the case, he felt bound to say, that the hon. and learned member for the University of Dublin had stated them most correctly. The conduct of the priest, on that occasion, was such as all men must deprecate. He regretted, that Government had not noticed the conduct of the Archbishop of Dublin, which he (Alderman Copeland) considered to be very improper. He concurred entirely in the prayer of the petition, and he felt great pleasure in supporting it.
 Mr. Ewart  said, that, in consequence of a petition which had been intrusted to him, and of the prayer of that petition, he would offer a suggestion to the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies. The petition he referred to emanated from a body of Scottish emigrants, who came for embarkation to the port of Liverpool, and who found themselves deceived respecting the vessel in which they were to embark. They prayed, that some superintending authority or tribunal might be appointed in the out-ports, for the purpose of giving assistance and information to persons about to emigrate.
 Mr. Peter  said, the improper subdivision of land in Ireland, had the same effect on the Poor-laws of England, in increasing the number of labourers.
 Sir Robert Bateson  could not remain silent when he heard it stated that the Roman Catholic priests did not interfere to prevent the peasantry in Ireland from reading the Bible. Residing as he did in the north of Ireland, where the majority of the people were Protestants, he knew, that even there the priests did interfere to prevent the free circulation of the Scriptures. They denied the rights of their Church to whole families where even the children were discovered to be possessed of a Bible. He (Sir Robert Bateson) could not conceive anything more calculated to shock the feelings of a Christian than a person forcibly taking away the Word of God from a sick peasant and then forcibly burning it. He should be glad to be convinced that this was the only instance of such disgraceful conduct, but he knew the fact to be otherwise. The priesthood of Ireland possessed a power above the law, and they exercised that power so tyrannically that they had reduced the peasantry of Ireland to the most abject slavery. Circumstances of the nature referred to in the petition were of frequent occurrence in Ireland, and he hoped some means would be devised to place the Roman Catholic priesthood under the control of the law.
 Mr. Clay  considered, that emigration would be advantageous rather than injurious, and it was on that ground that he approved of the clause. There was an immense surplus of labour and capital in this country seeking employment, and why should not both be led into our colonies? There was no project which could be mentioned with a chance of profit but many persons were ready to take it up. There was with our redundancy of capital distress among the labourers, and how could both be provided for, unless by emigration? He saw no reason to relax their endeavours to better the condition of the labouring poor of this country be-
 472
 Lord Althorp  said, that he was aware it would scarcely be possible to propose any mode by which settlements in parishes were to be acquired, that might not be found liable to some objection. He was desirous, however, of reducing the grounds for such objections to as narrow a compass as possible, and not wishing, therefore, to embarrass the present Bill by the several clauses that related to this subject, he should propose certain alterations which he thought would have the effect of simplifying this part of the measure. He intended to propose, that all settlement by service and apprenticeship should for the future be abolished, but not meaning to interfere with any apprenticeship already in progress and that should be completed. Removing these two grounds of settlement would, he thought, in a great degree, do away with all obstruction to free labour. There would still, no doubt, be left some grounds for litigation, but this it would not be possible to avoid in any system that could be devised. There was another mode of settlement in which he also proposed to make an alteration. He meant that of
 478
 Lord Althorp  intended to propose, that all tenements from which settlements were to be derived, should be rated at least at 10 l. l.
 Lord Althorp  entreated hon. Members not to delay the House from going into Committee on the Bill by agreeing to the hon. Member's Amendment. The question was one that might be discussed at any
 451
 Lord Sandon  was glad his hon. friend had withdrawn his Amendment. He looked upon the next Amendment which had been proposed by the hon. member for Kent, as one of great importance. For
 476
 Mr. George  Wood moved the Order of the Day for the second reading of this Bill.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that his principle always was, not to pay those who did not deserve payment, but to pay those well who deserved it. Acting on this principle, he would vote that those seamen who fought so well at Navarino, should be rewarded. The men, in his opinion, ought not to be refused the customary reward on account of any error committed by the commanding officer. In such a case, the proper course would be, to call the gallant Admiral to answer any charge which might be brought against him before a Court-martial. But in this case the Government, by the mere fact of not calling on the gallant Admiral to answer any charge, had tacitly, though not expressly, approved of his conduct. Whatever the opinions of different parties might be, all would acknowledge, that the gallant Admiral had achieved a brilliant victory in the cause of humanity and liberty. The special pleading would be quite unintelligible to the seamen themselves by which they were to be deprived of the customary reward. There was no special pleading when called
 512
 Mr. John Stanley  hoped, after the expression of opinion by the House in favour of the Motion, that the Government would not persist in its opposition. The gallant Officer had acted strictly according to his instructions, and it was the duty of the House to see justice done to the gallant seamen under his command.
 Mr. Hume  said, that he was a warm friend to education; but he doubted whether the bringing in the hon. Gentleman's Bill at present would not defeat the object he had in view. He would suggest to the hon. Member, whether the most proper course to pursue would not, in the first instance, be to move for the appointment of a Committee of Inquiry into the state of education in Scotland, and then the House could act on the Report of that Committee to whatever extent should appear to it most advisable.
 Mr. Stewart Mackenzie  concurred with the hon. member for Middlesex in suggesting the propriety of an inquiry previous to legislating on the subject.
 Mr. Aglionby  was also of opinion, that it would be premature to legislate on the subject without previously appointing a Committee of Inquiry.
 Sir George Strickland  said, the House should not rashly agree to large grants of the public money for such purposes as those contemplated by the hon. Member. If 60,000 l. 519
 Sir Daniel Sandford  cordially concurred with the hon. member for Middlesex in suggesting the propriety of appointing a Committee of Inquiry previous to bringing in any Bill on the subject. He thought that a Committee might be appointed, and witnesses got up from Scotland and examined (for only four or five would be required), in sufficient time to enable the hon. Member to carry his measure during the present Session, notwithstanding its advanced state. The General Assembly of the Church of Scotland was in the habit of annually instituting inquiries into the state of education in that country; and the venerable Moderator of that Assembly would at once furnish the Committee with many valuable documents on the subject, which, with the examination of two or three witnesses, would afford all the information that would be requisite.
 Lord Althorp  differed in opinion from the hon. and learned member for Paisley, when he said, that there would be sufficient time for the examination of witnesses, after getting them up from Scotland, this Session. He agreed with those hon. Gentlemen who thought that, unless there were further information on the subject before the House, it would be premature to legislate on the matter. He did not wish to institute any comparison between the system of education adopted in England and that which was pursued in Scotland; but he must say, that his own opinion was, that the system which had been adopted as to England should be adopted for Scotland. He (Lord Althorp) thought that the better plan for the hon. Gentleman to have pursued would have been to bring in the Bill and refer it to a Committee up-stairs.
 Mr. Buckingham  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to prevent duelling, but the House was counted out.
 Mr. George Wood  was not aware on what ground it could be assumed that it was not his intention to persist in the Bill this morning. Had the right hon. Gentleman put the question in private, he should certainly have told him that it was his intention, and the time of the House
 495
 Mr. George Young  considered, that it would be a dangerous precedent if the House negatived this Motion, as it might be an inducement to seamen hereafter, to question the commands of their officers, if they should not be paid the customary gratuity merely on account of an error of judgment on the part of a commanding officer. He did not think, even if the gallant Admiral were found guilty by a Court-martial of exceeding his orders, that that would be a sufficient ground for invalidating the claim of the seamen. He hoped, therefore, that the noble Lord would not continue his opposition to the motion;
 513
 Mr. Goulburn  really felt himself compelled to take advantage of the opportunity which the present Motion on the Orders of the Day presented to him, in order to submit to the hon. Member whether he really could think it consistent with fair discussion to introduce the subject of the Universities' Admission Bill under the present circumstances of the House. For his part, when he considered the extraordinary nature of the subject, and the character of the Motion itself, he really could not bring himself to consider that the hon. Member had moved the Order of the Day with any other object in view than that of postponing his Motion to a future opportunity. He repeated, that he could not induce himself to believe that the hon. Member wished otherwise than that the question should be fairly and fully discussed, or that he would be a party to
 493 494
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that he not only spoke for himself, but on the part of the Government, when he said, that it was impossible that the hon. and gallant Member could have been engaged more gracefully and honourably than in endeavouring to obtain for the gallant officers and seamen, with whom he had served, rights to which they considered themselves entitled. The hon. and gallant Member had brought forward his Motion in a manner to which not the slightest objection could be made, and he assured the gallant Officer that it was with sincere and unaffected regret, that he felt himself compelled, by a sense of duty, to oppose the Motion which he had made. In stating the reasons which actuated him in so doing, he should have occasion to trouble the House with some circumstances relative to the battle of Navarino, to which the gallant Officer had
 501 502 503 * * 504
 Mr. Warburton  would ask, if any one had pointed out what course the gallant Admiral could have pursued other than he had pursued, namely, to enter the bay of Navarino? Why, then, should the seamen employed in that expedition, be treated differently from those engaged in other expeditions of a similar nature? The proper course would be, if an error had been committed, or if the gallant Admiral who commanded exceeded his orders, to call him to a Court-martial. If he had erred, let him be punished; but why refuse to the seamen the reward which they had so well earned.
 Mr. Buckingham  said, it was always an agreeable task to join in praise of the brave defenders of their country, whether officers or men, and he was proud on this occasion to add his humble meed of eulogy to that already bestowed on the gallant Admiral and his heroic band. But in addition to this expression of his feelings, he was anxious to make a very few observations on what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Labouchere), on the subject in debate. He had listened to the objections raised against this Motion with the utmost attention, but had not heard one which was not susceptible of refutation. The hon. Gentleman began by reading the instructions issued to the gallant Admiral, by which he was commanded to take great care to prevent the Turkish fleet getting to the Morea, and to intercept them in their voyage there, if possible; and it was
 510 511
 Mr. Hume  had great doubts as to the propriety of acceding to this Motion. He said this with regret; for no one had a higher sense of the gallantry of the hon. and gallant Admiral than he had, or was more ready to accord him his meed of admiration. He was, however, disposed to go with the noble Lord in the opinion which he expressed, and for the same reasons. The general sentiments of the House, however, showed, that the noble Lord would be left in a minority, and he would, therefore, recommend to him not to press his opposition to a division. He could not but regret the result of the battle, in as far as it destroyed the Turkish fleet, and thereby laid Turkey prostrate at the feet of Russia.
 Mr. Hodges  supported the Motion. To deny the sailor compensation when he had gained a battle might make him waver when the country was in danger.
 Admiral Adam  supported the Motion, and said, that the gallant Admiral had done himself great honour by his disinterestedness throughout the transaction. It was clear, that his gallant friend had no expectation of fighting when he entered the Bay, and it was equally clear, that by so doing, he fulfilled his instructions in the best manner, and saved the Morea.
 Sir Edward Codrington  said, that he had the best authority for believing, that the course which he proposed to pursue on this occasion was in strict accordance with Parliamentary practice. The Motion which he had to submit was, "That this House resolve itself into a Committee, for the purpose of examining into the propriety of an Address to his Majesty, humbly requesting, that he will be graciously pleased to take into his consideration the claims for pecuniary recompense of the officers, seamen, and royal marines engaged in the Battle of Navarino, on the 20th of October, 1827." He was sorry to be under the necessity of bringing this subject before the House in any shape, or of giving the House any trouble whatever about it. He was sorry that the Government had not felt it necessary to take up the subject, as he should much prefer leaving it in their hands. As they had not taken it up, he felt, that the duty devolved on him, and however disagreeable to his feelings to bring it forward, he would not shrink from it. Soon after the Battle of Navarino, he wrote to the Lord High Admiral, stating the great destruction of the men's clothes which took place in that action. He had never known of any action in which the loss was so great in that respect. He therefore felt it his duty to submit, that the officers and men were entitled to some compensation for their losses in that respect. The answer he received was, that it was difficult to establish such a precedent, as the practice was, of which the House was probably not aware, that all losses of this kind were made good to the army, but not to the navy. He was told, however, that he might memorialize the Lord High Admiral for head-money, as was done by Lord Exmouth, in the case of the attack on Algiers. He sent that memorial to Sir John Gore, who was sent out to the Mediterranean to make inquiries as to the origin of the action. Sir John Gore subsequently sent that memorial to the Admiralty, and he had reason to know, that it came to the hands of Sir George Cockburn, and Mr. Croker. It was some time before he returned to England, and when he applied at the Admiralty, over which Lord Melville then presided, he was surprised to find, that there was no record there of his memorial. He had declined to present a fresh one, and, after some delay, by the kindness of his Royal Highness the Lord High Admiral an official copy of that me-
 497 498 l. l. 499 l., 500 l. l. s.
 Sir Francis Burdett  could assure the House, that he had felt equally pained with his hon. friend; but he felt pain, that such a Motion should be opposed by his Majesty's Ministers, for he must confess that in whatever light he looked at the case, it appeared to him clearly made out, that justice, policy, and the best interests of the country demanded the grant, and, therefore, the Motion was deserving the favourable consideration of Parliament. It was a question which did the hon. and gallant Member great credit in whatever way it was regarded, and the manner in which he had brought it forward was highly honourable to him. If it were true, unbendingly true, that let the most gallant action be performed which it was in the power of man to perform, placed in the most trying and delicate situation, yet he should, on account of some punctilio, be refused that reward to which he was entitled, he begged them to remember the consequences that must flow from such a doctrine. He could not but call to mind the unparalleled situation in which the hon. and gallant Member was placed. If he had acted with a little less spirit, if he had acted with a little less decision, he would have cast the worst of all discredits that it was possible to cast upon any country or any cause upon them; he would have thrown a stain upon the arms of England, and degraded the character of the British officer. Yes, if he had sailed back from Navarino—if he had not had the honour of his country so deeply at heart, he would have been reproached for not having accomplished the views entertained by Government, and on him would have been imposed the full blame of all the disastrous consequences which might have ensued. The gallant Admiral had met with praise from all quarters—from the officers in the same service as himself, from the nation, and from a Member of that Government who refused his claim—the Secretary of the Admiralty, who was not a stranger to the brilliant achievements of his country—he meant Mr. Croker—who was not ill-calculated to form an opinion of such an action, who was Secretary at the most unrivalled, at the most memorable period of our naval history, and who could not but allow the highest praise to the daring achievement of the hon. and gallant Officer. He well recollected the period when Sir John Hobhouse brought his Motion before the House, and he then totally denied that the hon. and gallant Member had committed any fault. It then appeared to
 506 507
 Sir John Sebright  said, he recollected his father having mentioned a speech made by a gallant Admiral in that House, on an occasion similar to the present. It was made at a time when speakers were not so numerous as at present, and when none spoke who had not something to say. That such was not now always the case, he was afraid he should be one of the living proofs. A t that time, officers in the navy had not the eloquence of the hon. and gallant Admiral who had brought forward the present Motion; but an old Admiral, who had never been known to address the House before, got up with his mouth full of tobacco, and, much to the surprise of all present, addressed the Speaker as follows:—"Mr. Speaker, I am not an orator, and I don't know how I could be, seeing that I have been forty years at sea; but this I know, that if you don't pay those who serve you well, you'll not be served at all." That story was applicable to the present question, and illustrated the view he took of it.
 Sir Robert Inglis  was not anxious to connect the Government with this measure, but he could not help thinking they were called upon by its great importance to devote one entire evening to its discussion. The present measure involved a question of principle, which ought to be discussed with as little interruption as possible.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, there was no limitation to the period devoted to the debate in the evening, and it was resumed on the next day, when the recollection of the House was fresh with regard to what had taken place on the preceding night. This, however, could not be the case with an adjourned debate from one morning to another. As an illustration of the inconvenience of devoting the morning sitting to business that must necessarily be adjourned, the House would recollect that the speech of an eminent and learned professor was sliced in two a few mornings ago, by the Speaker leaving the chair, and the remainder pronounced on a subsequent day. There were twelve Committees now sitting, six of which he (Sir Robert Peel) had that day to attend. He trusted the noble Lord would consider they were called on to determine on a question of the greatest importance. The morning sitting was understood to be devoted entirely to the reception of petitions, many hon. Members were intrusted with 50 or 100, and sought every opportunity to present them; if, therefore, the whole three hours were to be taken up with the discussion of most important measures, which made it incumbent on every Member to attend, one of the duties they owed to their constituents must be consequently neglected.
 Sir Robert Price  hoped his noble friend would withdraw his opposition to a motion in favour of which there appeared to be an almost unanimous feeling in the House. He would earnestly entreat of the noble Lord not to persist in his opposition.
 Lord Althorp  rose and said, that he had formerly stated his reason for opposing this Motion; but no one seemed to concur with him in his opposition but the hon. member for Middlesex. In such circumstances, he could not think of dividing the House on the question, and would, therefore, not persist in his opposition; and he hoped his hon. and gallant friend would allow him to congratulate him on the result of his Motion. He was sure, that his gallant friend well knew, that any opposition which he gave to it was merely from a sense of duty. He would only add, that this result was a reward which the hon. and gallant Admiral well deserved for his distinguished conduct throughout the transaction.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the only object he had in view in pressing forward the measures of Government was, that the public business might be despatched with as little delay as possible. If he gave up one of the Order-days, it would be a great injury to the public service.
 Lord Althorp  said, that he conceived himself called upon to make a few observations, in consequence of the reference which had been made by the hon. and gallant Member to what took place about a year after the affair of Patras had taken place, between the then Ministers and himself, in respect to that subject. The question that he had then asked was, why the action was not gazetted; for he had always felt, that it was one of the most brilliant which had occurred in our naval history. The answer which he then received, gave him a certain degree of doubt as to the origin of the action; and it was stated, that no shots were fired from the Turkish fleet; but he had since ascertained that many shots were fired. With regard to the daring nature of that enterprise, if it were not to be called the most brilliant—if
 508 509 Sir E. Codrington:
 Mr. Robinson  said, he had given notice that this clause and the following clauses, to the 73rd inclusive, should be omitted from the Bill. These clauses made a radical change in the law of the country relating to bastardy, to which he strongly objected. In saying this, he wished not to be under-
 521 ex-post facto 522 523
 Lord Althorp  said, that in regard to the conclusion of the hon. Member's speech, if the question were to be discussed as a
 524 525 526 527
 Mr. Lloyd  thought, it would be desirable to postpone the clause for the present, though he felt confident, that the object and the principle of it were most beneficial. He was, however, disposed to postpone it, lest it might be laid hold of as a means of throwing out a bill which, however objectionable in parts, contained many good things. The sooner it became law the better, and, to remove impediments, he hoped the noble Lord would accede to the proposition of the hon. member for Worcester. The public mind could not readily be brought up to the point at which it would tolerate so great a change in the Law of Bastardy. Vestries would oppose it, misrepresentations would go abroad, and, as great mischief was often done by attributing false motives, the success of the whole measure might be endangered for the present.
 Mr. Estcourt  considered, there ought to be some moral punishment inflicted on the father of an illegitimate child. Hitherto the father was not punished for his immorality. It was true he might be incarcerated, but that was not for the crime of immorality, but because he was looked upon in the light of a debtor. He was anxious, that the whole of the laws relating to bastardy should be reviewed and consolidated. He thought that, as the subject did not press for an immediate decision, it would be advantageous to postpone the clauses under discussion until the next Session or another, and combine them in one Bill.
 Lord Ebrington  thought, though he was not particularly favourable to the clauses at they at present stood, there would be a lesser evil in passing them now than in deferring them. He was glad to hear from his noble friend, that he was inclined to adopt the Amendment proposed by the hon. member for Somersetshire. With the prospect of the Amendment he should be extremely sorry to see the clauses rejected;
 528
 Mr. Edward Buller  said, that the present Bastardy-laws were productive of a great amount of perjury, and something should be done to prevent it. That might be effected by making the allowance to women as small as possible. With regard to the alteration proposed by the present clauses, he thought it too great. It would leave women without any protection, and would award no punishment to the men. It would not have the effect of preventing incontinence, and would drive women to acts of violence and revenge. He had great doubts as to the propriety of removing all liability from the men. Though the present mode of punishment had little or no effect on the lower classes, it had a considerable effect on the middling classes, and the class just above the lowest, which class was most important as far as regarded the morality of the country at large. He certainly should wish the clause to be postponed.
 Mr. Miles  read a document to show that the money, at present paid by the putative fathers of illegitimate children was nearly sufficient to cover the expense of bringing them up. According to his conception the 69th, 70th, and 71st clauses might stand as they were, and his Amendment be placed as a clause after the 71st; or, if the noble Lord thought it necessary, his Amendment might come after the 69th clause of the Bill. He would suggest another mode. Those three clauses might be deferred to another stage of the proceedings, but he earnestly hoped that they would not be postponed to another Session. He hoped that the Bill would go through the Committee with but few alterations; and he was persuaded that, with a few alterations, it would give general satisfaction.
 Mr. Bulteel  should be sorry to see the Bill in any way mutilated. Whatever aspersions might be cast on the harshness and cruelty of country gentlemen, the present Bill, if it passed, would owe its ultimate success to the co-operation of those Gentlemen. If the principle contained in these clauses came into operation it would be attended with general good.
 Mr. Charles Buller  considered the present Bastardy-laws a great evil, for they promoted perjury, incontinence, and immorality. He thought some measure of punishment ought to be directed towards the father, but that was rather a secondary consideration. Great advantages would re-
 529
 Mr. Aglionby  agreed with his hon. and learned friend, the member for Stockport, whose object was to render the passing of the Bill certain. The discussion of those clauses would much impede the progress of the Bill. They were not an essential part of the measure, and they would render it objectionable in the eyes of the country, since it would be seen that it was not necessary that they should form part of it. He considered it more advisable to adopt the suggestion of his hon. and learned friend, and separate those clauses from the present measure, and make of them a distinct Bill.
 Mr. Wolryche Whitmore  said, that, as he had always thought the clause under discussion a most important one, he would trouble the House with a few words upon it. Hon. Gentlemen who objected to it said, that it had been concocted by men in their closets. Now, there was no one principle in the Poor-laws of England, worse than that which this clause sought to remedy. If it were wished to make the clause effectual, it should not be separated from the Bill. The practice of giving public support to illegitimate children was a cause of their increase. He would quote America as a proof of that assertion. In the towns of Boston, Salem, and Baltimore, illegitimate children were not supported at the expense of the public; in the town of Philadelphia they were. What was the consequence? The illegitimate children, in one year, in Philadelphia, amounted to 272; in Salem there were none, and only two in Boston, and two in Baltimore. It was clear, therefore, that the practice of publicly bringing up illegitimate children tended to increase immorality and incontinence. He hoped, that the clauses would be persevered in, as great good would result from passing it. He would support the clauses, and, if they should be lost, he trusted, that Government would not allow them to drop altogether, but defer them for future legislation.
 Mr. Grote  requested the noble Lord not to postpone the clause. He should prefer it as it now stood; but, at any rate, let it be passed with the modification proposed. The evils of the system which had hitherto prevailed, were acknowledged by all, and certainly they were as great as any that
 530
 Mr. Ewart  gave his cordial support to the clause as it stood, and thought, that it was one of the most important and beneficial parts of the measure.
 Mr. Benett  said, that those clauses proceeded on the principle, that women would perjure themselves for the small premium of 1 s. s. s. d. s., and s. d." s. s. d. s. d. s. d. 531
 Mr. Cobbett  agreed with the hon. member for South Wiltshire. They heard much of late of the great increase of bastards, and of the great increase of immorality throughout the country. He remembered the time when the production of one bastard in a year in a parish, and that a large parish, too, was looked upon as a wonder; and the unfortunate woman who had so erred, even
 532 533
 Sir John Wrottesley,  though not contented with the clause as it stood, yet would vote for it rather than for the Amendment moved by the hon. member for Worcester. If the hon. Member should go to a division, he would find that, while a great many who would vote against him were in favour of the original clause, there were others who, like himself, were favourable to the Amendment proposed by the hon. member for Somersetshire. He looked
 534
 Mr. Hawes  supported the original clauses. He trusted the noble Lord would not withdraw them. It had been said, that they were legislating upon this subject in haste, and without sufficient consideration. Now, he would venture to say, that never had there been a measure brought before the country for which the public mind was so prepared as this. The Report of the Commissioners, which contained all the principles of the Bill, was laid on the Table of the House on the 20th of February, and it was now the 20th of June. It could not be said, therefore, that they were legislating in a hurry. All persons acknowledged the evils arising from the present bastardy system. Was that system to be without a remedy? It was said, that the feeling of the country was against this part of the Bill. He did not find that any petitions had been presented against it; and he knew, that it was in some places approved of. The hon. Member read an extract from a letter of a clergyman, stating that he, and all the clergymen in his part of the country especially, approved of this part of the Bill, as likely to increase the purity, and consequently the happiness, of the female sex. With the facts before them which were detailed in the Report of the Commissioners, he hoped they would have the courage to apply this remedy to a great and crying evil.
 Mr. George Wood  said, that an objection taken to this clause among his constituents —an objection in which he concurred—was, that it might tend to render the parish liable for the support of those bastard children. He, therefore, thought that all liability should not be removed from the father, though he, in other respects, approved of the principle of the clause.
 Sir George Strickland  thought, that this was the most important part of the Bill, and he would certainly give it his support. The hon. member for Oldham had told them, that he remembered the time when there was but one bastard in a parish for one hundred that were in it now. If he looked back to the time he referred to, he would find, that the Poor-law system had not then arrived at that acme of demoralization to which it had been since proceeding with such rapid strides. The greatest honour was, in his opinion, due to his Majesty's Ministers for fearlessly grappling with such a subject. Gentlemen who had acted as Magistrates at Petty Sessions must have
 535
 Colonel Torrens  would support the Amendment of the hon. member for Worcester, because he could not think it desirable to mix up the question of the Bastardy-laws with that of a Reform of the Poor-laws. In reply to the observation that the number of petitions which had been presented against these clauses were few, he begged to state, on the contrary, that they were numerous and strong in the tone of their objections. With every wish that the Bill should be made popular, and being so, should work consistently with the feelings of the people, he hoped the Committee would see the necessity of acquiescing in the Amendment.
 Mr. Mark Philips  said, that while he admitted the great importance of an alteration in the Bastardy-laws, yet he must maintain the propriety of still holding the father responsible to the parish for the maintenance of his illegitimate child, for otherwise the charges on the parishes in large manufacturing towns and districts would be much increased. Even as the law at present stood, the average deficiency for the last few years in the contribution to the parish of Manchester by the fathers of bastard children exceeded 700 l. 536
 Mr. Hardy  with every desire on his part for the success of this Bill, must state, that his experience in the courts of quarter Sessions of the operation of the Bastardy-laws enabled him to say, that it would be inexpedient to relieve the fathers of illegitimate children from the burthen of contributing to their support and maintenance; for the father was, at all events, in cases of a first child, the criminal and not the woman. With respect to the incentive to perjury, his experience had shown him that many of the cases supported by perjury were got up by the fathers against the unfortunate mothers of the children. The noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer would do well to add some provision in this measure to enable parishes to enforce some contributions from the fathers, for otherwise the consequence would be that the young woman who might unhappily be the mother of a bastard child, and who might not be capable of maintaining herself, would be entirely thrown upon the parish or upon the resources of her own parents, who, under circumstances such as had already been mentioned, could not in any degree be blamed for the misfortune or misconduct of their daughter. Under these circumstances he hoped, in the event of the present clause passing the Committee that the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) would acquiesce in the addition contemplated by the Amendment of the hon. member for East-Somerset, and that thereby some security would be afforded to the parishes for contributions from the fathers. At the same time he (Mr. Hardy) was disposed to vote with the hon. member for Worcester for a postponement of the consideration of these clauses.
 Mr. Peter  was convinced, from the magisterial experience he had had, that if the oath of the mother was admitted to fix a party, the mass of perjuries which had been complained of would continue. The hon. member for Wiltshire (Mr. Benett) had asked if it could be believed that a woman would perjure herself for the weekly stipend or allowance of 2 s. 537 l. l. s., s.
 Viscount Howick  was most anxious to have avoided taking any part in the present discussion, but there was one single point of extreme importance in the consideration of the present question, which as yet had not been mentioned. He alluded to the consequences which arose from making the birth of a bastard child penal in one way as against the father. In point of feeling the father was, he admitted, a more blamable party in the transaction than the female, but the Legislature ought not to be guided by feeling, but by practical effects. He contended that a much greater mischief arose from compulsory marriages, which necessarily must take place if by any modification of the present Bill the father was exposed to punishment, than from the adoption of the plan proposed by this Bill. Under the Amendment which was contemplated by the hon. member for East Somerset, a poor labouring man who might be charged with a bastard child would have the option of either going to prison, or marrying the mother. He feared that the latter alternative would be but too generally chosen; and he put it to the Committee whether any pecuniary advantage to the parish could for a moment be put in com-
 538 539
 Mr. Pease  would not shrink from the responsibility he incurred by stating, that after deliberate consideration he was impressed with the opinion that the clause as it stood was calculated to effect important good to the community. He was satisfied, from personal observation, that the present system was pernicious, and that if many young women had been allowed, as in many instances they were willing, to volunteer the support of their own illegitimate children, their shame would have been screened by their friends, and the probability in such cases was, that they would have returned to a respectable course of life. The Bill as it stood would, he was convinced, do good, and therefore should have his support.
 Mr. Halcombe  considered, that the better course would be to take these clauses out of the present Bill, and submit them in a distinct measure for the Amendment of the Bastardy-laws. At the same time the present Bill ought not, in his opinion, to be stopped, so far as it related to the alteration of the Poor-laws. He scarcely knew what was the proposition of the hon. member for East Somerset, but he understood that it went to overturn the whole existing Bastardy-laws, and to set up a system quite at variance with the Report of the Commissioners and the measure brought forward by his Majesty's Government. These sudden alterations must lead to hasty and improvident legislation, and in this respect he could not but complain that the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) had consented, on a previous evening, to strike out an important clause from the Bill without any previous notice having been given of such intention. There were several classes of cases of daily occurrence which were not at all provided for in the present Bill, or
 540
 Lord Althorp  denied, that he had taken the House by surprise by consenting to any alteration in the Bill; on the contrary, he had not assented to any alteration whatever. He had certainly stated, that if the House objected to the Bill, he thought the least objectionable alteration in it would be that proposed by the hon. member for East Somerset. The hon. member for Dover seemed to think, that neither, he (Lord Althorp) nor the hon. member for East Somerset had kept faith with the House. He denied the imputation; and with respect to the hon. member for East Somerset, he begged to say, that that hon. Member had actually printed and circulated the Amendment he intended to propose, and had therefore taken the very course which, of all others, justified the present discussion. He had before stated, that there were three courses for the Committee to pursue, and he thought that one of them, namely, that relating to the postponement of those clauses, had been disposed of. If he collected rightly the sense of the matter, it was, that they should go on with the clauses. Of course they would have an opportunity of discussing whether or not it would be proper to adopt the Amendment of the hon. member for Somersetshire. That proposition would not alter the clause, but morely add to it.
 Mr. Robinson  in reply, said, that there was no pressing or immediate necessity for altering the law relating to bastardy, and
 541
 Mr. Robinson  said, he would put it to the Committee to say whether they were prepared, after having thrown the whole liability of supporting her offspring upon the mother, to throw it also upon the grandfather and grandmother on her side, in case of the mother not being able, from sickness or death, to do so? It was impossible that the grandfather and grandmother could be held criminal in the act committed by their daughter, and in many cases it would be a dreadful aggravation of sufferings already sufficiently great. Supposing the case of a labourer with a large family, which he had with difficulty supported and brought up. He would be obliged to send out his daughters to service or perhaps to a factory, and if they should be seduced would it be fair to send back their children to be supported by the grand parents? He
 542
 Lord Althorp  said, that this would be no departure from the principle of the Act of Elizabeth. By a former clause they had decided, that all relief to the child should be considered as relief to the mother. In that case the mother's parents were justly chargeable with the relief because the relief was to their own child.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, that such a clause as this would create a difference in the law between the poor and the rich. If such a provision were adopted in this Bill, it should also be applied to the Pension-list, by which the latter would be materially shortened.
 Mr. Fysche Palmer  said, that the relationship of the parties gave them a legal liability, and he did not see why they were not to be bound to support the offspring of their children if the latter were unable to do it.
 Mr. Miles  was surprised to hear the assertion of the hon. member for Reading. If the hon. Member inquired, he would find, that the law recognized no relationship in the grandfather and grandmother for their advantage, and it would be most unjust to make them relations only for the purpose of sharing the penalties of their children's misconduct. Upon this topic, however, he begged to caution hon. Gentlemen against indulging in statements that differences were made between the poor and the rich, or that the former were treated with harshness or injustice. He was confident, that they all desired to benefit the poor, and he therefore regretted to hear the imputations which were so freely cast out. This being his opinion, he did not think the House, after reflection, would adopt such a provision as that now under discussion. It was manifestly unjust to the poor. In the classes above them the law gave protection to parents against the seduction of their children; but any one acquainted with the habits of the lower orders of society would know, that when parents were deprived of their children by seduction they had no means of appealing to the law for redress. It would be therefore cruel and unjust to add to their privations the charge of maintaining the offspring of their daughters, and he did hope the clause would not be persevered in.
 Lord Althorp  said, he should not persist in retaining the clause.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, he had to move a proviso, which would make the law for those who had become rich by the labour of the poor the same as for the poor. It was certainly right that grandfathers or any other relations, if they had substance and means, should provide for their destitute kindred, and the law ought to compel them to do so; and so ought all children for their parents in like manner. There could be no objection to this, and this was what the clause provided for. But it did not provide for another thing. They ought to have a trifling addition to the clause; and he meant to move it. It ran thus:—"Provided always, and in manner aforesaid, that the father and grandfather, the mother and grandmother, child or children, of any person on the Pension-list, the Sinecure-list, the List of Retired Allowances, the Widows' Pension-list, the Compensation-list, or upon all or any other list of pensions received without services rendered to the public, or in any other way receiving money out of the taxes raised upon the poor, shall, if such father or grandfather, mother or grandmother, child or children, be persons of substance, be liable and compellable to yield relief to their relations under all the penalties and forfeitures provided by the Act of Elizabeth, and that all such pensions and allowances shall cease to be paid." That was his proposition. They talked of the degradation and sense of shame which the unhappy paupers ought to feel; but had the pensioners, the sinecurists, any sense of shame? If they had any, would not their aristocratic relatives keep them from preying, like paupers, on the hard-wrung taxes? He might be accused of ungentlemanly conduct in talking in this manner, but he did not care for fine language and nice distinctions. When he saw so manifest a determination on the part of the House and the Whig Ministers to reduce the labouring classes to salt and potatoes, he looked upon them to be the aggressors, and they must abide by the consequences.
 Lord Althorp  would not enter into any discussion of the principles upon which the hon. Member's observations against the Pension-list were based. He should simply content himself with reminding the House, that even those who objected to that Pen-
 544
 The Attorney General  thought the privilege should be given to them. It was quite true, that inconvenience had resulted from the privilege being possessed by Dock Companies, and other Companies of a similar nature; but that was no argument against its being conceded to the Commissioners, who had certain duties imposed upon them, and were in many respects differently circumstanced.
 Lord Althorp  observed, that it would be in the recollection of the House, that the debate on three or four clauses of the Bill had been postponed; but he thought it would be the more convenient course to bring up the new clauses which he had to propose, before the Committee proceeded to deal with the old ones. The clauses which he had to suggest, too, were such as he be-
 545
 Mr. Grote  rose, and said, he, for one, could not help thinking that the noble Lord, by introducing the limitation of five years to the operation of the appointment of the Commissioners, would not improve the character of the Bill. He certainly entertained the fullest and firmest conviction, that when the period of the termination of the present Act should arrive, the working of the measure would be found to have been so beneficial, that the powers of the Commissioners must be renewed. Whereas, in the event of carrying this limitation, it would make the measure appear in the light of a temporary experiment morely, and they could not divest it of that character if they sanctioned this clause. The effect of such limitation would necessarily be to excite a spirit of resistance, and a degree of hope in parishes where the mal-administration of the Poor-laws might prevail; that in such cases the parishes would, if they could, retard the progress of the improved system; and they would make head against the Amendment in the laws which were proposed. The powers of the Commissioners must be diminished by this limitation. There was always a chapter of accidents in these matters, and it might fall out that when the five years should expire, the Parliament of that day might not think fit to renew the Act.
 Lord Althorp  was not prepared to say, that the clause he had to propose was an improvement—he perhaps did not think it was; but he thought it was, at least, no detriment to the Bill. The only practical objection which he could see in the observations which had fallen from his hon. friend, the member for London was, that
 546
 Mr. Robinson  thought, that this measure was to be regarded as a great experiment, and that the noble Lord was quite right in proposing this limitation, because he thereby disarmed many objections.
 Mr. Wolryche Whitmore  concurred in the opinion of his hon. friend, the member for the city of London. He believed, that the limitation of five years might prevent the formation of those unions which the Act sought to establish, and the erection of workhouses, as proposed by this measure.
 Mr. Charles Russell  opposed the clause. It would be unjust to expose one particular description of property to the effects of an  ex-post-facto 547
 Mr. Warburton  did not think, that this clause was one which should be allowed to pass in its present shape; and he objected to such a clause being introduced into this Bill.
 The Earl of Darlington  said, in reply, that instead of this description of property being the only one which was hardly dealt with, it was the only description of property which was exempt at present from the payment of parochial rates. It paid no rates, partly on account of the difficulty of collecting rents, and the expense of collection. The owners of this kind of property would reap advantages from the adoption of this clause.
 Lord Althorp  said, he had been long of opinion, that the principle embraced in this clause was good; but he could not see why the noble Lord had introduced the proviso respecting the rates being taken on the rack-rent. He objected to this, and thought the clause should stop at the words "chargeable for the said assessment." He was also of opinion, that great advantage would accrue to the occupiers in these cases by relieving them from a certain extent of pressure to which they were now liable.
 Viscount Sandon  was opposed to this clause, and maintained, that it drew an arbitrary line in respect to the proprietors of a certain description of property.
 Mr. George F. Young  differed altogether from the statements made by the noble Lord (Lord Sandon). He knew some parishes in which the system worked well, and he was therefore determined to support the clause.
 Mr. George W. Wood  thought, that all property of this description ought to contribute to the general fund, or if not all, then all ought to be exempted. If this were not the case, improvident persons would have an advantage over the industrious portion of the population. He thought, however, that it would be of advantage to all parties if in certain cases the landlord was to pay the rate at a reduced valuation.
 Mr. Pryme  was opposed to this clause, as it would have the effect of doing away with small cottages, and thus the poor man would be compelled to pay rent for a higher house, or else to migrate to a smaller or still more wretched dwelling. So much
 548
 Mr. Bonham Carter  considered this a matter of such importance as to call for a separate legislative enactment. It was to be regretted that the whole measure should be thus impeded, if not endangered, by the introduction of matter altogether foreign to the Bill.
 Mr. Robert Palmer  agreed with the last speaker in thinking this a matter which called for separate legislation, instead of being introduced so as to interfere with the Bill itself. He thought all property of this description ought to be rated, leaving the Magistrates to afford relief where the parties were not able to pay.
 Mr. Fysche Palmer  was authorised to state, that in Reading and its neighbourhood persons did not receive more than three or four per cent, for the money expended in the erection of houses of the description in question. It would be a severe hardship if a retired servant, who had expended his or her little savings in such a way, should be ruined (as in many cases they must be) by the enactment of such a clause. In the country it was a different question, but there he would say, that if the landlord consulted morely his own interest, he would not have one of those cottages erected. He opposed the clause.
 Mr. Estcourt  supported the Clause. Difficulties such as those described might perhaps arise to old servants, but was it
 549 l.
 Mr. Warburton  objected to both, and thought, that any proposition of so important a nature ought to undergo full and ample discussion, and ought not to be proposed at all, without affording the parishes an opportunity of entering into their details.
 Lord Althorp  was favourable to the principle of the Clause; but he doubted whether, in the present stage, it could be rendered operative. He put it to the noble Lord whether he felt it necessary to press any such Clause at present.
 The Earl of Darlington  said, he certainly did; and if on being enforced it was found inoperative, he pledged himself to introduce a separate Bill upon the subject.
 Mr. Ruthven  opposed going into the Committee at that late hour (half-past 2 o'clock.)
 Lord Howick  said, he had a claim on the hon. Member's indulgence after having consented to the Committee, and he hoped, therefore, the hon. Member would make no opposition to the Amendment which he was about to propose. The hon. Member must be aware that, as the law stood before, the party committing or attempting a highway-robbery, where injury was inflicted, suffered the extreme penalty of the law. His (Lord Howick's) object was, to place the law in that respect as it was before. He would, therefore, move, that, after the words "security" these words be inserted, "not doing any bodily harm to the person so robbed."
 Mr. Lennard  was obliged to resist the insertion of these words, because it had been truly said by the noble Lord, they would go to leave the law as it was before the introduction of the Bill; which, in that shape, would afford no real amelioration, and the public would be deceived by, anti dissatisfied with it. If the robbery itself did not deserve death, surely the assault by which it was attended ought not to make it so punishable, inasmuch as the most violent and severe assault was visited, he believed, with only two years' imprisonment, it being always borne in mind that, where life was endangered in cases of robbery the capital punishment remained the same
 Mr. Warburton  said, on a former occasion he had objected to the principle of this Bill, on the ground of the inequality of its operation. This clause provided, that licences should be granted to persons to sell beer, but prohibited the drinking of it on the premises where it was sold. In his opinion, it would be quite ineffective; and in proof of that view of the case, he would appeal to the experience of the House with reference to the effects produced by the Bill, which authorized the sale of cider to be drunk off the premises. The law was evaded in a variety of ways; greater irregularities were produced than before existed, when cider was permitted to be drunk on the premises. The immorality which was occasioned by beer being consumed on the premises would not be put an end to by the prohibition; and he was of opinion, if this immorality should exist, it was much better to screen it from the public eye. What
 552
 Major Handley  admitted, that the Amendment which had been proposed by the hon. member for Kent, was a great improvement to the Bill; but as he viewed it merely as a  ruse,
 Mr. Parrott  should also support the Amendment of the hon. member for Bridport. The system of licensing had always been abused, and always would be. He knew of a case, as a Magistrate, where applications had been made to the Magistrates for licenses by three persons; two of them, who were high churchmen, obtained their licenses; the third, who was a Dissenter, was refused. It ought to be left to the same open competition that existed in every other trade; but this clause would have the effect of shutting up almost all the beer-houses in the country, and, as a consequence, the sellers of porter would have an opportunity of increasing the price of porter 2 d. s. l. 553
 Mr. Tennyson  said, he should give this Bill all the support in his power. The great objects of the Bill for the sale of Beer, which were to produce a free competition, and to give a cheap and wholesome beverage, had signally failed. So far from free competition being impeded by this Bill, he contended it would be increased; because it held out inducements for every person keeping a shop in a town or village, to make beer, and sell it to the labouring man the same as he sold any other article of consumption. Hon. Members had said, this Bill would be productive of great mischief; but whatever that mischief might be, he was sure it could not equal the injurious and demoralizing effects which had been produced all over the country by the operation of the Sale of Beer Act. He thanked the hon. member for Kent for having introduced such a measure, as he was convinced it would tend to cure the dreadful evils which had resulted from the present system. He knew, that he was treading upon unpopular ground; but he felt himself bound in justice and in honour, to give his opposition to a measure that had gone far to demoralize the people of this country. It was his intention to move, that for the future no more beer-houses be licensed beyond the present 33,000 already licensed. He would recommend the House to rest at the clause of the hon. member for Kent, but at the same time he thought some protection should be afforded to the 33,000 whose vested rights, as they were termed, would be affected by the Bill.
 Mr. Slaney  was of opinion, the case had been overstated on both sides. The system had been heretofore a comparatively close one: it was subsequently opened: and now the country, from one end to the other, rang with complaints of the evils produced by the sudden re-action. There never was an opinion more general—even in reference to the comforts and happiness of the poorer classes themselves—than that some change in the present Beer Act was absolutely necessary. The question then was, what was that change to be? He was a member of the Parliamentary Committee which sat to investigate the operation of the sale of Beer Act; and he could safely say, that the greatest bearing
 554 l.
 Mr. Henry Handley  regretted, that the hon. member for Lambeth had altered his notice of Motion at the eleventh hour. He (Mr. Handley) was satisfied, that of the 33,000 beer-houses in the agricultural districts, very few would be swept away by the present Bill. That evils had arisen out of the law as it now stood was undeniable; and he was of opinion, that it had effected none of its contemplated objects. For instance, beer was no better and no cheaper than before it passed, and the monopoly of the great brewers was not in the slightest degree injured. When the amendment of his hon. friend the member for Lambeth should be disposed of, he
 555
 Mr. Fysche Palmer  said, the evidence taken before the Beer Committee, and the reports founded on it, were worth nothing at all. The evidence was really the most absurd that had ever been given before any committee, and that of some of his brother Magistrates most especially so. Every crime in the calendar was traced by them to the Beer Bill; sheep stealing was never heard of before; in fact, no vice, no demoralization was ever known in the country, according to their opinions, until the Beer Bill came into operation. He confessed, he did not think the evidence of persons who viewed the matter through such a medium, was much to be regarded by that House. The House had had some experience of what might be expected from prohibiting the consumption of beer on the premises. It was well known, that when the prohibition existed, beer was purchased at one house, and the people met at another and drank it; benches were placed even by the roadside, a plot of ground was staked round with hurdles, not more than twenty yards from the beer-shop, and there the beer was consumed. Could the consumption of beer on the premises, he asked, be attended with worse effects than these? On the contrary, he was convinced, that, under proper regulations, it would be attended with very great advantage to the lower orders. By means of this Bill, those who, on the faith of the Beer Act, had expended their little capital on beer-shops, would be utterly ruined; and thus not alone would injustice be done to them, but the country would also be injured by the additional amount of pauperism with which it would certainly be burthened. If they were to be dispossessed of their holdings, they should at least get time to dispose of their property, and convert it into money. It had been said, the beer was no better under the present system than it was under the old one. He denied the fact most positively; he frequently tasted the beer himself; and he asserted, that it was a great deal better in quality; and the reason was obvious. He would state, as a proof of this assertion, a circumstance which occurred in the county of Berks. Under the old system, it was the practice of all the great brewers, within a tract of country comprehending
 556
 Sir George Strickland  concurred, that the present Bill would be productive of great injury, and inflict gross injustice on those who had vested their capital in beer-houses, and should, therefore, give the clause his decided opposition.
 Mr. Ayshford Sanford  contended, that no injury would be done to those who kept beer-houses by the operation of this clause; it did not prevent them from selling beer; it only gave permission to others to sell beer to be consumed off the premises. He thought the present Bill would remedy many of the great evils produced by the Beer Act, and should, therefore give it all the support in his power.
 Mr. Heathcote  considered the proposition of the hon. member for Kent the most preferable. Its effect would be, to get rid, not so much of the Beer Bill, itself, as the evils that had been produced by its operation. That those evils had prevailed throughout the country to a most alarming extent, he apprehended no man would deny. He should therefore vote for the clause which had been substituted by the hon. Baronet the member for Kent.
 Mr. Guest  said, the injurious effects produced by the Beer Bill were undoubtedly very great in the agricultural districts, but they had increased in a tenfold degree in the populous districts, and in manufacturing towns. The beer could not be worse than it was now; but it might be greatly improved. It was his intention to support the clause.
 Mr. Parker  was determined to vote for the clause proposed by the hon. Baronet;
 557
 Mr. Cayley  should give his support to the Amendment of the hon. member for Bridport. He could not help observing, at the same time, that vested rights were not so much mixed up with the consideration of this question as had been supposed by many hon. Members.
 Mr. Robert Palmer  said, that of all the measures that had ever passed that House he believed the Beer Bill had been productive of the greatest evils. In corroboration of what he stated, he would only refer to numerous petitions he himself had presented from grand juries, magistrates, clergymen, farmers, and many labourers themselves, all in condemnation of the Bill, and praying that it might be repealed. It had been very generally supposed, that the Magistrates wished the present system to be abolished, in the hope of gaining some of the power it was said they had lost by it. He denied that such was the case. It was well known, that the duties they had to perform in licensing public-houses were of a most unpleasant character, and subjected them to great inconvenience. He would refer to the charges pronounced by the Judges to the Grand Juries in all parts of the country, to show that those learned persons attributed a great deal of the crime that had increased to such an alarming extent, to the injurious effects of the beer-houses. He was persuaded, that the greater portion of the evils produced by this measure were owing to the consumption of beer which took place upon the premises where it was sold; and until that could be proved to be a benefit to the country, he should give the clause of the hon. Baronet, prohibiting such consumption, his hearty support.
 Mr. Potter  observed, that the complaints had been very loud and frequent on the demoralizing effects which had been pro-
 558
 Mr. Wilks  said, that notwithstanding all that had been said with regard to the injurious effects produced by the Beer Bill in agricultural districts, only sixty-seven petitions had been presented, signed by 10,240 persons, during the present Session of Parliament, while those presented for the abolition of slavery, and the redress of grievances of the Dissenters, amounted to five or six times that number. He contended, that the only object of this Bill was, to obtain for the Magistrates a restoration of that power they had lost by the Beer Bill. To show what had been the effects of the licensing system, he would only refer to what had been stated by the hon. member for Lambeth on a former occasion. A house situate in the parish of Lambeth that produced a rent of only 50 l. l.
 Mr. Benett  said, he was formerly one of the supporters of the Sale of Beer Act, but he was now fully convinced of the evils it had produced in the country. He thought the proposition of the hon. Baronet would remedy many of the evils produced by the operation of that measure, and he should therefore support it.
 Mr. Mark Philips  thought it desirable there should be some check on the parties who kept the beer-houses. He knew that, in some of the manufacturing districts, many of the proprietors of these houses were actually receiving parochial relief at the time they kept them. In any alteration, however, that should be effected, respect ought to be paid to the vested rights of the parties affected by it.
 Mr. Briscoe  gave his support to the proposition of the hon. member for Kent, because he was of opinion, it would increase the consumption of beer, and be the means of producing a beverage of a much better quality, and at a more reasonable price.
 Major Beauclerk  thought, that the greatest respect should be paid to the interests of those poor persons who had embarked all the property they possessed to obtain a livelihood by the means this Bill had held out to them.
 Mr. Hume  said, as the House was legislating for poor persons, they ought to consider their wants with reference to the situation they held in society. Suppose a House of Commons composed of such persons who principally consumed the beer at these houses, the first thing they would do would be to put down club-houses, because they encouraged gambling: they would not do anything that would curtail their own enjoyments. He put it, therefore, to the House whether they would consent to deprive the poor man of the little enjoyment he obtained at the beershop after his work was concluded. He believed this clause was a great encroachment on the freedom of the poor, and therefore he should support the Amendment.
 Sir J. Sebright  said, that persons of every class in the county he had the honour to represent united in reprobating the Sale of Beer Act measure. He had presented petitions from a great many of the labourers themselves, setting forth the evils it had produced, and he pledged himself to present a petition to that House that should be signed by every labouring man in one of the districts in the country, praying that the law should be immediately repealed.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  briefly replied. He believed, that his plan would be the only remedy for the evils which the demoralizing measure it was intended to amend had produced throughout the whole country.
 Colonel Evans  rose, pursuant to the notice he had given, to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the Reform Act, in that part which made the payment of rates and taxes an essential qualification for voting at elections. He had last year tried, without effect, to induce the House to adopt this Amendment of the Act. He feared, that he should not be more successful on the present occasion, though he had now a strong argument in favour of the Motion,—in the evidence which had since been afforded of the practical operation of that clause in disfranchising vast numbers who would otherwise be entitled, and to whom the Bill intended to give the right to vote. What he sought to have done was, the omission from the 27th clause, which gave the right of voting in boroughs, of the following provisio—"Nor unless such person shall have paid on or before the 20th day of July in such a year, all the poor-rates and assessed-taxes which shall have become payable from him in respect to such premises previously to the 6th day of April then next preceding." If the House should not be disposed to go thus far with him, and consent to the omission of those words, he would even be content with a much slighter change than the one he had proposed; he would be satisfied with the substitution of "the 6th day of October" for the "6th day of April" then next preceding. [Lord Althorp expressed his dissent.] He was sorry to see, that the noble Lord did not assent to his very moderate proposition. His own object was to give full effect to the proposed intentions of those who
 561 562 l.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, recent events had shown, that it was very necessary that something should be done to amend this Clause about rates and taxes, for at Cambridge seventy voters had been disfranchised, because the collector of taxes had received their money and had run away with it without acknowledging its receipt. Now, there was no election on the result of which the fate of the Government, and he might perhaps say of the country depended so much as on that at Cambridge. It was quite clear, that this number might have turned the trepidating scale either way. After the spectacle of public buffoonery which had been exhibited in all manners of ways at Oxford, in order to influence public opinion against the Government, he knew not what might have been the effect of a real and substantial victory over it at Cambridge. He understood that owing to the operation of this clause, the number of voters at present registered fell short of the number which had been anticipated before the passing of the Reform Act by not less than half a million. Instead, then, of pursuing a restrictive system, the Government, if it acted wisely, and wished to stand well in the opinion of the people, would adopt the principle of this Motion, and consent to this extension, or rather increase, of the franchise. In many boroughs, the constituency had been rendered very narrow by acting on the principle it was now proposed to amend. In the borough of Harwich, there were not more than 170 electors; in that of Portarlington there were not 100. He did not mean to find fault with the choice made by those electors, nor to impute to them improper motives; all he meant to say was, that in those boroughs the votes would soon be of as much value as votes were in any of the close boroughs recently destroyed. It was his belief that we owed reform more to accident than to design. The Administration now in power succeeded in acquiring office owing to the imprudent and uncalled-for declaration of
 567 568
 Mr. Stanley  observed, that the intention of the hon. and learned member for Chester seemed to be to destroy not the Bill alone, but the Courts of the County Palatine of Lancaster. There was this broad distinction between those Courts of Counties Palatine which had been abolished, and those which had been retained, that the latter were presided over by the Judges of the land, while the former were not. The object of the hon. and learned Gentleman seemed to be, to draw the practice out of the Courts of the County Palatine of Lancaster, in order to put it into the hands of the attornies
 594
 Mr. Pollock  did not think, that the course which had been adopted by his hon. and learned friend was a fair mode of dealing with the measure. The objections of his hon. and learned friend were applicable to some of the clauses of this Bill, and not to its principle. He trusted, that the House would not consent to refer the Bill to the consideration of a Select Committee. Such a proceeding was unnecessary; for they already knew, from experience in the Courts of Westminster, the advantages which it was now sought by the Bill to communicate to the Courts of the County Palatine of Lancaster.
 Mr. Jervis  proposed, that the 5th clause, which authorized process of outlawry to
 595
 Mr. Pollock  said, that, unless the clause was retained, the Court would have no means of enforcing its judgments. With the superintendence exercised by the Courts in matters of this kind, there was no fear of a man going uselessly to the expense of outlawry.
 Lord Dudley Stuart  was not an advocate for the repeal of the Corn-laws, because he thought the agricultural interest ought to be protected; but while they claimed protection, they ought to take care to give to the manufacturer the means of obtaining food by his labour. He would not join in any senseless cry against Ministers because they opposed this Motion; he was sure that they all felt deeply for the distresses of those in whose behalf the Motion was made. As regarded his own case, however unwilling he was to give a vote which he knew would render him unpopular in the House, he must nevertheless support the Motion.
 Lord John Russell  felt himself called upon to contradict, with all due respect, an expression which had just fallen from the hon. member for Birmingham. The hon. Member had said, that before the Reform Bill became law, it was expected that Birmingham would contain 18,000 voters. Now he, for one, had never either felt or stated such an expectation. He had said, that the Reform Bill would give to Birmingham 5,000 electors, and it now appeared, that the actual number of electors there only fell 1,000 short of that amount. The Bill of Reform, which gave to 4,000 electors the right of returning two representatives for a town which had never before possessed that right, was in his opinion a thorough Reform. He was sorry, that it had not produced all the prosperity that was expected; but he had an odd notion, that what the hon. Member called prosperity was only another name for the 1 l. 570
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, the question before the House was of a very confined and limited description. It involved the propriety of establishing a prohibitory system, not applicable to the silk-trade generally, but to this particular branch of manufacture. To this point the arguments of the hon. member for Coventry were directed, and on this question alone was the House called upon to decide. Under these circumstances, he was sure the House would see the propriety of not entering into general topics connected with free trade (which could have no application at present), still less of discussing the Corn-laws, and, least of all, of entering into the question of the general taxation of the country. On all those points, when a fit and proper opportunity should occur, he should not be the last man to intrude his opinions upon this House. On this occasion, however, it would be much more convenient if he limited himself to the simple question introduced by the hon. member for Coventry. He must own, that he was surprised to hear the hon. member for Warwickshire (Mr. Dugdale) introduce the subject of free trade with respect to this particular article, especially after the speech of the hon. member for Coventry. Was the hon Gentleman aware, that the very article, the introduction of which he wished to prohibit, was now taxed to the extent of from forty to sixty per cent? It was originally stated, be it remembered, that the protection should not exceed thirty per cent, but, in consequence of the alteration which had taken place in the value of the article, the duty had increased to the amount he had just mentioned. The hon. Gentleman who seconded the Motion seemed likewise to have entirely overlooked all the arguments which were urged by the hon. Member who moved it. What was the argument of the hon. member for Coventry? "Talk to me of protection, said he; no, we have got that already, and we find it to be utterly and entirely inefficacious for time purposes at which we aim; consequently, I call upon you, not to protect these manufactures, for such protection is perfectly worthless, but at once to establish a total prohibition." Really the hon. Gentleman seemed to have a very singular notion of free-trade. He could conceive,
 579 580 581 582 583
 Mr. Ellice  stood in a peculiar situation with regard to the Motion before the House; and he, therefore, wished to state distinctly the line of conduct which he considered it his duty to adopt. He felt, in common with his hon. friend who had just sat down, and with every other gentleman who had spoken on this subject, the deepest sympathy for the distress under which those poor persons were suffering whose case had been represented to the House. He was bound to say, that, after a long acquaintance with those parties, their case, such as it had been represented to the House, had not been exaggerated. It was quite true, that this branch of trade, from a state of great prosperity, had declined to a state of great depression, owing to a variety of causes, which were, he was afraid, beyond their control; though he still hoped, that some means might be discovered for remedying them. If he for a moment thought that such a Motion as that brought forward by his hon. colleague was at all calculated to convert this branch of trade from a state of depression to a state of prosperity, he (Mr. Ellice) would not be the person to oppose it. But, in the first place, the
 575 576
 Mr. Littleton  admitted, that the subject was well worthy of attention, and suggested, that the names of such proprietors of land on the Shannon as had seats in the House should be included in the Committee, and that they should bear a proportion of whatever expense it might be deemed expedient to incur. The money thus expended he thought would be extremely well employed, and would be ultimately repaid in the advantages gained. The improvement of the river was a matter of national importance, and would be well worthy of encouragement.
 Mr. Finch  said, that he had been asked to support the Motion, but, consistently with his own opinions, he could not do so. He considered prohibition not practicable; but if it were, it would lead to so many inconveniences, that, in his opinion, its adoption would render the condition of the manufacturers worse than it was at present.
 Mr. Robinson  did not deny, that this
 577 578
 Mr. James Talbot  wished to call the attention of the House to the great advantages that would result, not alone to the country adjacent to the Shannon, but to all Ireland, nay to the empire, from the improvement of the navigation of that noble river, by encouraging manufactories, commerce, and agriculture along its course. An estimate of the expenses was drawn up under the superintendence of the Board of Public Works in Ireland, and the estimate of the improvement of navigation, of the river for 123 miles was only 153,000 l.
 Mr. Brocklehurst  said, that he had been in communication very lately with the Macclesfield manufacturers, and their opinion was, that the House could not serve them better than by leaving the matter entirely alone.
 Mr. Roebuck  supported the Resolutions. The 27th Clause of the Reform Act, com-
 565 l. status élite l. 566
 Mr. Hume  rose to second the Motion, though he had not seen it or been aware of its exact nature until he had now heard
 563 l.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the silk trade was peculiarly circumstanced. The fact was, that it stood in its own way, as regarded its power to compete, by having refused to admit the introduction of machinery. If they looked into the evidence given before the Silk Trade Committee, they would find it stated, that in the town of Coventry, when an attempt was made to introduce machinery there, the most decided opposition was exhibited; in fact, the machinery was destroyed. So mistaken and short-sighted had the parties been, that they had formed strong combinations against the introduction of any improvements in the machinery that was used. He deeply regretted, that so many persons should be suffering as was represented; he had no doubt, that their distress was great, and no one could feel more anxious than he was to afford them relief; but though he entertained these sentiments, he must acquit himself of acting improperly, if he did not accede to the Motion before the House. Instead of adopting a course which, in his conscience, he believed would deceive the parties most interested, and in place of proving advantageous to them, would add to their present difficulties, he would candidly state what appeared to him to be the cause of the distress, and what remedy he thought ought to be applied. His hon. friend who had introduced this question, in so doing, had, no doubt, discharged his duty to his constituents; but from the knowledge which his hon. friend possessed of the principles of commerce, he thought his hon. friend must feel the impossibility of the desired relief being obtained from such a source as prohibition. He referred the distress, in a great measure, to that most mischievous of all monopolies—the monopoly of food. He must also assert, that for a portion of their distress, he thought the people of Coventry had themselves to blame, in having refused to admit the silk necessary to their manufacture free of duty. In no portion of the kingdom was the admission of thrown-silk duty free more strenuously opposed than in Coventry. The amount of the duty was 3 s. d. 585
 Mr. Fryer  said, that the advice he had given to manufacturers when they complained to him of their distress was to join together and form a union to break down the Corn-law. When he recommended them to exert themselves against the corn monopoly, they replied, "The House of Commons won't hear us." He told them this was true enough, and the reason was, that the House of Commons was made up principally of landowners. He was then asked whether he would have them form into mobs, and he told them certainly not; for if they did, they would assuredly be put down, and lose all their power the moment they made an attack on private property. But let them form into a union to obtain a free trade in corn and free labour. This was the spirit of the age which Lord Grey alluded to a few nights ago in the House of Lords. If they had free labour and a free importation of food, they need not fear being able to compete with any foreign Power whatever.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  would trouble the House with a few words in favour of the Motion. The distress of the parties now appealing to the House had been attributed in part to a change of fashion. Was it change of fashion that occasioned the distress of the ship-owners? Was it change of fashion that occasioned the distress of the land-owners? Was it change of fashion that occasioned the distress of the farmers? In one word, was it change of fashion that had plunged into distress all the great interests of the country? He would answer, No. General distress must have a general cause. The report of the Agricultural Committee which sat in 1821, established the fact of the existence of general distress. He was examined on that occasion, but the Committee thought fit to reject his clear and unanswerable  exposé 586 587
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  said, that this clause had disappointed the expectations of the inhabitants of the town which he had the honour to represent. Whilst the Reform Bill was under discussion, the people expected at Birmingham, that that borough would have about 18,000 voters. There were 18,000 10 l. l. l. 569
 Mr. Dugdale  had great satisfaction in seconding the Motion; and he sincerely trusted, that the House would consent to the introduction of the measure which his hon. friend, the member for Coventry, asked leave to bring in. He could assure the House, that the riband weavers of Coventry were in a state of pitiable distress; and the severe depression under which they laboured was, he was satisfied, the consequence of the system of free-trade which had of late years been adopted in this country. No persons could bear the deplorable situation in which they had been placed with more patience, or greater resignation, than the riband weavers had done; and their silent forbearance, he thought, gave them something like a fair claim for the protection for which they sought. They had hoped to gain some alleviation of the misery they endured from the Treaty of Reciprocity that was expected to be entered into between England and France. In that hope, however, as everybody knew, they had been disappointed; but, even had a Treaty of Reciprocity been agreed to by the two countries, it was his opinion, that the riband-trade especially would reap little or no benefit from it. Such were the advantages which the French riband manufacturer possessed over the manufacturer of this country, that competition between them was entirely out of the question; and, therefore, unless actual prohibition were resorted to, the French manufacturer must, as at present, enjoy almost exclusively the monopoly of our markets. In fact, it had been shown, by a history of the trade, that it never prospered except when prohibition was established. Gentlemen who were disciples of the free-trade
 574
 Mr. William Roche : As one of the Representatives for the city of Limerick, the principal port on the line of the Shannon, I rise to second and express my warm approbation of the Motion of my hon. friend, the member for Athlone. But, Sir, I do still more on national than on local grounds, because I should not deem myself justified in permitting local feelings to prevail over national interests: but when, Sir, they not only do not conflict, but are intimately identified together, then local improvement may justly and legitimately give additional zeal to national consideration. Sir, nationally, I approve of this Motion and its object, because I am convinced it will powerfully conduce to that great desideratum in the prosperity of every nation, but so peculiarly wanted in Ireland, namely, the profitable and permanent employment of the people, consequently to their improvement, comfort, and contentment, in a manner much more effectual and enduring than laws of pains and penalties ever can accomplish. Locally, Sir, I am glad of this Motion, because I am aware that every improvement conferred upon the Shannon will extend a beneficial influence to Limerick, and reciprocally that every advantage conferred upon Limerick must prove useful to the whole line of the Shannon. Limerick, Sir, is the great emporium and outlet for the produce of that noble stream, certainly, as from the hands of nature, the finest in his Majesty's home dominions. Of that produce, Sir, it exports to this country not less than 1,000,000 l. 592
 Sir Daniel Sandford  said, it was unquestionable, that in many branches of the silk trade, and especially in the manufacture of shawls, very great distress prevailed. In Scotland, he knew that large numbers of workmen were now discharged, with famine staring them in the face. He had been informed, that the amount of orders lately received, was 80 per cent lower than the usual demand at this time of the year. He knew it was impossible to return to a system of general prohibition, but what was necessary to be done had been recognised in a recent speech of the right hon. Gentleman, which had been received by the manufacturers with great pleasure. The right hon. Gentleman had said, that if France did not return the advantages of reciprocity which this country had proffered, he would employ all the means at his command as a Minister of the Crown, to compel her. All he asked was, that the right hon. Gentleman would follow out this principle, which Mr. Huskisson would undoubtedly have done, if he had lived. The first form of the experiment of free trade had failed, and the time was now come when they ought to try whether the other form would be more successful.
 Mr. Henry Lytton Bulwer,  in moving for leave to bring in a Bill for the protection of the Riband trade by means of prohibition, said, he was aware, that it was necessary for him to make out an extraordinary case, in order to justify prohibition, and he admitted that he was bound to show, that this was the only means of relieving the distress and depression of that particular branch of manufacture. The hon. Member entered into a lengthened statement, to show, that great distress existed in the riband trade, that this was caused by the competition of the French manufacturers, and that the prohibition of their commodities was the only means of saving our own trade. He observed, that, in 1832, it was distinctly proved that the poor-rates in Coventry (the principal seat of the riband weaving trade) had reached to nearly double their amount in 1827, and that of 10,000 looms, 8,444 were entirely unemployed. Out of a population of 8,000 persons within a given district, 3,000 were wholly dependent on parochial relief for subsistence. The distress had since
 571 l. l. 572 573
 Mr. Henry L. Bulwer  replied. He ad-
 590
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  thought it was impossible to convey to the House an idea of the state of distress in which those poor and suffering people were involved; and it was absolutely necessary, that some means should be taken to afford them relief. Their distress did not arise, as some alleged, from the inferiority of their manufactures to those of the French: they could manufacture quite as well as the French; but they could not, under the pressure of taxation which they had to endure, manufacture as cheaply. He had no objection to cheap articles; but he would rather that they were produced by our own, than by foreign, manufacturers. He had presented a number of petitions on this subject; and all the petitioners asked was, that if the Government would not afford them protection, it would give them the means of emigrating.
 Mr. Clay  said, that he should not attempt to answer the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken, and who had indulged himself in allusions to many subjects that did not appear to him to bear very closely on the question before the House. The hon. Gentleman had, amongst other things, alluded to the currency; indeed, it rarely happened that he spoke without doing so, whence the discussion of this matter appeared almost to be his peculiar privilege. He (Mr. Clay) was opposed to the principle of prohibition, which he did not expect would have found an advocate in his enlightened friend, the hon. member for Coventry. In his case it appeared to be a species of  monomania; 588 589
 Lord Althorp  was not surprised at finding these Resolutions proposed by the hon. and gallant Representative for Westminster, but he was surprised to find any Gentleman bold enough to state, that he seconded Resolutions of such a character without having perused them previously. The first of those Resolutions stated, that it was desirable that the House should enter upon the consideration of the propriety of modifying the Reform Bill. Now, he did not think that such an inquiry was desirable. The hon. and gallant Officer said, that we should enter into the consideration of the right of franchise, because we had already entered upon the consideration of a plan for modifying the mode of registration. But the mode of registering the electors involved a very different question from that of the proper amount of the elective franchise. This principle of making the elective franchise depend on the payment of rates and taxes was not a new principle in our system. It was part of the old scot-and-lot system. The object of the framers of the Reform Bill, after making a 10 l. 564 l. bona fide. l.
 Mr. Estcourt  rose to oppose the second
 633 Wood: 634 635 636 637 638 639 640
 Mr. Herbert  seconded the Amendment. Was it the intention of the House, he would ask, to revoke the Acts, regulations, and by-laws of the Universities by which Dissenters were excluded from them? If such was their intention, they had better give their sanction to the measure before them. There did not exist a single bylaw in the colleges of the Universities, nor even a single custom, which did not go to obstruct Dissenters, and prevent them from being admitted to qualify in the Universities. How could a Dissenter become a master in any of the colleges, when, to be one, a complete knowledge of the tenets of the Established Church was necessary? No matter how great a proficient in learning he might be—no matter how brilliant were the talents with which nature endowed him, a religious education was a  sine qua non 641 642 643
 Mr. Peter  said, that whilst he gave his cordial support to the second reading of the Bill, he must, at the same time, express his concurrence with the hon. Member who had just sat down, in deploring the violence which had been displayed by some of the Dissenters, in condemning their gratuitous and uncalled for interference with the English Church. No man more deeply regretted such proceedings than he did. But whilst they thus condemned the conduct of those Dissenters, they should take care not to follow their example. Their folly and injustice could never sanction ours—their demand of what might be unreasonable would not sanction us in withholding from them what was really their right and due. With respect to the arguments which had been advanced by the hon. member for the University of Oxford, he (Mr. Peter) thought, that the time for many of them had long gone by. Why if his arguments were of any validity—if his principles were correct—then, not only was the proposed measure impolitic and unjust, but every former concession—the repeal of the Test and Corporation Acts—Catholic Emancipation—all that had been done for Dissenters during the two preceding reigns—must be equally so;—every execrable Statute which once deformed our Statute book ought still to remain there, a record of barbarism and cruelty and superstition to remotest generations. But, in our zeal for the name of Christianity, let us not lose sight of its spirit and practice. Let us not forget, that it is the religion of peace and charity, and that one of its fundamental laws and precepts is, that we should do, as we would be done unto. Now, was this the principle on which we had acted towards the Dissenters? Had we, he repeated, always acted towards them, as we would have wished them under similar circumstances to act towards ourselves? Was proscription from the privileges of their fellow-citizens—was the degradation of their whole body as unworthy of all academical advantages and distinctions—was this the justice, which (supposing them to have been the dominant party in the State)—was this, he would ask, the measure of justice which we should have been satisfied in seeing meted out by them to our children and ourselves? He contended that we had no right to make the
 644 645 646 647 in omne volubilis œvum 648
 Mr. Poulter : Having lost all hope that the enlightened sentiments contained in a petition lately presented to that House, on behalf of some of the most distinguished members of the University of Cambridge, will ever become the sentiments of the majority of that University, and despairing still more as to those of the University of Oxford, I think the time has arrived for the interference of the Legislature. There was a time when the exclusive principles of the Universities were less in hostility to the spirit of the age than they now are. When a vast majority of the people were attached to the Established Church, these principles, although objectionable, might find some sort of justification. That state of things has long and utterly ceased to exist. An immense body of Dissenters have grown up, and their just rights can no longer be resisted. I believe the extent of the present dissent has been owing to ourselves—to the want of a better administration and distribution of the property of the Church, and to its not having been properly brought into contact with the new and increasing population of the country. It is now vain to inquire into all the causes of that dissent, which can no longer be treated with neglect or indifference. It has been said, that the admission of Dissenters will destroy the whole system of education and the uniformity of studies. I cannot believe this. I attribute the existence of all difficulty in the case, to deep-rooted though respectable prejudices: whoever has resided at the Universities well knows, that every possible variety of circumstances attends the present situation of students. There are the two great classes of independent and dependent members, of each of these you have various subdivisions; and yet, who ever heard that these widely marked distinctions and separations were inconsistent with the good government of the Universities? While some persons are receiving considerable emoluments, others are put to a very large expense, and both in  statu pupillari 649 cessante ratione, cessat juramentum 650 diverso intuitu 651 expectans novam editionem, auctiorem atque emendatiorem:
 Mr. Ewart  said, that however much he desired the  "novam editionem" "auctior et emendatior" 652 653 [a laugh] [hear, hear.]
 Mr. Edward Buller  was convinced that if the Bill passed it would leave the Colleges as they were, and would enable the Heads to establish such rules as they thought necessary for their internal regulation, and would only remove the tests now taken on admission to Oxford, and
 654 655 656
 Mr. Wynn  said, that not having had an opportunity to express his opinions on the former discussions on this subject, he was anxious to do so now. He believed, that this was but the commencement of a series of measures which, if not checked in time, must lead to the subversion of the Established Church of this country, and also to the destruction of the other establishments in the country. It was not for the first time that he had heard to-night the arguments that had been advanced in favour of this measure. They were told, as they had been frequently told before, that every establishment should be got rid of, and that afterwards they could consider what might be substituted in their place. This measure, it should be recollected, was urged forward by the great body of the Dissenters throughout the kingdom, who had avowed that they looked for nothing less than the severance of the Church
 657 658 ["No, no!"] 659 Through every religion in Europe he run, And ended at last in believing in none. 660 661 662
 Mr. Secretary Rice  was unwilling to occupy the time of the House, but if he were to be altogether silent, it might be construed into a want of respect for the constituency he had the honour to represent, and especially to the individuals who had signed the petition in favour of the claims of the Dissenters, which he lately presented to the House. He took the liberty of expressing a difference of opinion from that which had been expressed by his right hon. friend who had just addressed the House. He differed from the right hon. Gentleman in arguments as well as opinions, though he had no doubt those arguments would be considered irresistible by many hon. Gentlemen on his right hon. friend's side of the House. When the question of Catholic Emancipation was before the House, the same fears were entertained of danger to the Church, and the same objections were made to that measure, and the same fallacies were had recourse to. The right hon. Gentleman had strenuously contended, that the present measure was to be regarded as only the first of a series of attacks on the Church of England by Dissenters, and therefore called on the House to reject it. The right hon. Gentleman referred to the opinions which had been openly expressed by certain Dissenters in favour of a separation of Church and State, and thence argued that all Dissenters entertained the same opinions on this subject. He could assure his right hon. friend and the House, that those doctrines regarding a separation of Church and State were disclaimed by a very large proportion of the Dissenters. But supposing such opinions were entertained to a far greater extent than they were, was he (Mr. Spring Rice) to be on that account driven from this measure, if it were one of justice? He therefore wished at once to cast aside the argument against the measure which the right hon. Gentleman grounded on the fact of a certain portion of the Dissenters being in favour of a separation of Church and State. His right hon. friend must have felt a consciousness that
 663 664 665 666 667 [Hear! Hear!] 668 669 670
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that he had great satisfaction in following his right hon. friend, because, like him, he was most anxious that the question should be discussed with the absence of all heat and animosity of feeling, and because he knew, that he and his right hon. friend had the same object in view, although he felt it impossible to concur with him in the means by which his right hon. friend sought to attain it. His right hon. friend and himself were, in many respects, placed in a similar situation. They both belonged to the same University; they had both sons at that University; so that they were both deeply interested, as well by their former recollections as by their immediate interests, in its well-being; and they were, therefore, naturally desirous to see the subject discussed with the temper and the calmness which befitted its important merits. Indeed the question was one so much more connected with religious considerations than with those of political expediency, that he should be most sorry to see any feeling of party excited or introduced into the proceedings of the House, which might, by a remote possibility, add to the heat which unfortunately prevailed elsewhere. But it was impossible that he could subscribe to the arguments of his right hon. friend, or avoid stating the utter fallacy of the grounds on which his right hon. friend supported the Bill. Proceeding, as his right hon. friend had done, upon the basis of the Bill upon the Table, he should attempt to show, that its effect upon the religion of the University must be such as ought to induce the House to give it a negative. His right hon. friend said, that the opponents of the Bill wished to put the civil interest of Dissenters out of view, and called upon those who were connected with the University of Cambridge, in particular, to consider what must
 671 672 673 674 675 676 677 678 679 680 681
 Dr. Lushington  here observed, that the right hon. Gentleman was labouring under some mistake, for that the observations of Lord Brougham referred to the first and not to the second petition.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that he believed he only attributed to the noble and learned Lord, the sentiments which he had been understood to express. All that the University desired was, that a difference should be drawn between the principles on which they were founded, and the principles of those who dissented from the Established Church, and that distinction they considered could best be maintained by preserving to them the exclusive privilege of granting such degrees as were essentially connected with the Church Establishment, on which they were founded. He had not as yet heard of any really important grievance under which the Dissenters laboured. No one that night had stated any such grievance that was at all intelligible to him, except indeed that Dissenters were debarred the honour of going forth into the world stamped with a University degree. Now, for his part, he could not see that this was any very great grievance considering that the Dissenters could never arrive at, nor was it pretended that they would wish for, the emoluments that were generally attendant upon those degrees. When he looked at the men who had risen in those Universities, he did not think it could be said that the system of education pursued there was calculated to produce worse statesmen, worse poets, worse philosophers, or worse commanders of our fleets and armies, than any new system that could now be engrafted upon them. When he looked at the great and commanding minds that had emanated from those seats of learning, men embalmed and sanctified in their country's recollection—when he looked upon such men, and thought upon their great deeds and services, he could not believe, that that system of education could be objectionable, which prepared then to confer such benefits on mankind. Would the House, then, he asked, for the sake of a small advantage, supposing that that advantage were really desirable, remove those tests of religious instruction, which had so long preserved to those invaluable institutions,
 682
 Mr. Stanley  said, that he did not rise so much for the purpose of encountering the arguments that had been advanced by the right hon. Gentleman on the other side, as to state to the House, in very brief terms, his view of the question as it then stood. When his right hon. friend who had succeeded him as Secretary of State for the Colonial Department, shortly before Easter, presented to the House the petition which had been intrusted to him by certain members of the University of Cambridge—a petition which was certainly couched in as moderate language as it possibly could be—he (Mr. Stanley) was glad to take the opportunity of concurring in the principle which was then laid down—namely, the expediency of introducing, as far as it could be done with safety to the interests of the Established Church, all Protestant Dissenters whatever, as well as those professing the Catholic religion, to a partici-
 683 684 685 686 687 688 bonâ fide ["Hear," from Mr. Shaw.] 689
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that the experience of the last six years clearly proved, that nothing but the total destruction of the Established Church would satisfy those who were opposed to her in religion and interests; and, in the progress of the events that had passed in that time, it was scarcely to be expected, that the Universities would be suffered to escape the destroying hand that now moved with what was called the spirit of the age. He would not say, that sentiments hostile to the Established Church were held in that House, but he knew that, out of that House, the Dissenters spoke from the feelings and principles by which all history proved them to be actuated—a deadly hatred of the Established Church. They were the same root and branch now that they were in former times; and although they were not so classical as to cry out,  Delenda est Carthago, 691 Paley's Evidences, Horœ Paulinœ, Butler's Analogy 692 [Cry of "No."] Paley's Evidences of Christianity Paley's Natural Theology, "—Rudis indigestaque moles. —Quia corpore in uno Frigida pugnabant calidis, humentia siccis, Mollia duris." 693 694 in honorem Dei "ut Christus evangelitur." 695 696
 Mr. Pryme  expected, that much of the opposition to this Bill would be founded on an erroneous principle, and so it had turned out, as he knew from having, during the last twenty-five years, taken some small share in the proceedings of the University of Cambridge. He felt confident, that his right hon. friend opposite would not be able to say that in his time—and he and his right hon. friend had been contemporaneous—there had been any degree of religious instruction or examination in the University to which a Dissenter could have objected from scruples of conscience. He (Mr. Pryme) said that there was none. The examination at Cambridge consisted of papers written or printed. Members might laugh; but he thought that a man who had spent the whole of his time in the University was entitled to speak on this question. He therefore said, that if in those written or printed papers there was a theological question which was contrary to the feelings and prejudices of any party examined, that person might pass it by, and proceed to give his answer to the next. There was nothing in the institutions of the Universities which could prevent Dissenters of all classes from belonging to them. In Cambridge they did belong to that University; they went through all the studies of the place; but they parted from their fellow-students, who belonged to the Established Church, on coming to the examination for degrees. It was said this was not a grievance. Perhaps Gentlemen
 697
 Sir Robert Peel  felt bound to say, that no modification which the Bill was likely to receive or could receive, would reconcile him to give his vote in favour of the principle on which it was based. He regretted much that the hon. Member, the author of the Bill, had not attended hitherto to the frequent appeals that had been made to him, and explained to the House what was the real intention of the Bill, as well as what was the construction to be applied to several of its leading provisions. As he understood the Bill, the effect of it was this:—It first recognised, in the preamble the advantages of academic education, and urged the expediency of its extension to all classes of his Majesty's subjects; it then recited that many sincere and conscientious men were excluded from partaking of the benefit thereof by reason of the necessity of subscribing to articles of religious doctrine, or to declar-
 698
 Mr. George Wood  said, the right hon. Gentleman totally mistook the intention of the clause. It was never contemplated to apply it to any such purpose.
 Sir Robert Peel : Why I read the very words of the clause. Here was a Gentleman who proposed to deprive the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge of that control over the education of the country which they had exercised so beneficially for a period of more than three hundred years, who undertook to violate every privilege which as Corporations they possessed, and who took upon himself the office of director of education at both the Universities, who drew up a Bill for their regulation which no man of common sense could understand. What, then, he asked, was the true interpretation of the clause? Did the hon. Member, after recognising in the preamble of his Bill the advantage of an academic education, and after urging that all men of every description of religious opinions should be admitted to the benefits of that education—did he mean to say, that if there were Statutes at present in existence in any College or Hall which rendered compulsory, or gave the right of hereafter rendering compulsory, on all
 699 700 701 702 703 George Wood: vivâ voce 704 Pryme: 705 bonâ fide bonâ fide 706 707 708 709 mandamus
 Lord Althorp : Whenever the time shall come when it appears to me that the contest which the right hon. Baronet so confidently anticipates has commenced, and it becomes a question whether we are or are not to have an Established Church in this country, the right hon. Baronet will find me as ready as he is to support the Established Church. But I think that I am neither injuring the Established Church, nor weakening the ground on which we shall then stand, by removing any objections which may at present exist to the institutions of the Church of England. Nor do I think, that by supporting this Bill in particular, I shall do anything calculated to injure those establishments. The argument of Gentlemen during the evening with respect to this Bill has been, that it tends to destroy the possibility of a religious education in the Universities. I certainly should be ready to agree with those who oppose the Bill if I thought such would be its result; but I do not perceive that any such consequence would necessarily ensue. I do not think it even probable. I concur with the right hon. member for the University of Cambridge, that members of the Established Church have a right to ask, that there should be a place of public education for their children, and that they should have the benefit of a public education in the principles and doctrines of that Church, and that any attempt on the part of any other class of religionists to interfere with that right would be an act of intolerance; but I do not see how this Bill takes away any part of these advantages. This Bill, as I understand, does not interfere with the internal discipline of the colleges. All that it gives to the Dissenters is the
 710 711
 Mr. O'Connell  begged to protest against the doctrine laid down, on two or three heads, by gentlemen who had grounded themselves on the Catholic Relief Bill, and insisted that this measure was required by the Catholics to extend the provisions of that Bill. This, on the part of the Catholics, he entirely disclaimed. Where was the petition in favour of this measure from the Catholics. He would go further, and say that were not that Bill founded on the principle of freedom of conscience, the Catholics would not support it. As far as the Irish Catholics were concerned, they, less than all, wanted it; for in Ireland the Universities were open to them, and they could take the highest degrees in medicine, civil, or common law. They strictly obeyed all the University rules, except attending chapel; which was, on account of their religion dispensed with. This was not a question on which the cry of "No Popery" could be raised. The cry must be "No Dissenters;" a cry not very likely to meet with much favour in that House. He must confess, that the debate of that night had inspired him. He had but very little respect for any party who would attempt to get back into power upon a cry of "No Dissenters," or "No Popery;" yet a man must be blind, not to see that there was such a party in that House. Here, however, it would not answer. Tom-foolery would not tell there, though, to listen to the speeches they had heard that night, one might almost have fancied that one of the grave doctors of Oxford was suddenly transported thither from the more congenial soil where they had lately figured. Oh, how gloriously consistent were these  élite 712 Tempora mutantur Parliamentary 713
 Lord Sandon  said, he should be very sorry to see those who stood by the Church and State following the advice of the hon. and learned member for Dublin. The support of the hon. Member was of very great value to the Government, but he should like to hear what the hon. Member would have to say next year to the noble Chancellor of the Exchequer if that noble Lord should not wish to advance a step further in the way the hon. and learned Member might desire. It seemed, that all the hon. and learned Member's notions about fanaticism had a connection with his pocket. The question before them had other considerations besides the danger of the pocket. It was a question of honour, and one that involved the best interests of the whole country. After this Bill had passed he could not see how next Session they could refuse to interfere with the rights and discipline of private Colleges. When the hon. and learned Member, as a friend of the Church, gave his advice, he could not help saying a few words about that advice and cautioning the House against it.
 Mr. George Wood  briefly replied. He contended, that there was nothing in the objection of the opponents of the measure which touched the provisions of the Bill, and he felt great satisfaction in saying that nothing had occurred to render him doubtful of its success. It was the right of all classes of the people of this country to enjoy a University education if they desired to avail themselves of it; and he complained, that they could not at present obtain that advantage except by complying with objectionable conditions, which were not necessary for the support of religion or of the Established Church. He did
 714
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  thought the inconvenience of being obliged to receive relief only in the workhouse would be sufficient to deter the woman from again coming on the parish.
 Mr. Wolryche Whitmore  objected altogether to the Amendment of the hon. Member. The Bastardy-laws, as they had hitherto been administered, were a great cause of immorality, and the most effectual check to it would be to discontinue the relief to the woman. As to the amount which was paid to parishes by the reputed fathers of illegitimate children, all he would say was, that the expenses of getting at the father and making him pay any thing were often more than was received from him, so that in fact the parishes gained but little in this way. He hoped the clause would be allowed to stand as it was originally.
 Mr. Langdale , though he considered that this clause did not go far enough, would not press his Amendment.
 Mr. Ayshford Sanford  observed, that at present the woman did not become chargeable, but only the offspring; but the words of this clause rendered the mother herself chargeable. Now, he did not wish to charge the father with the mother's maintenance; but if he were not charged, an additional burthen was thrown on the parish. He did not see how this difficulty was to be got rid of.
 Mr. Grote  wished it to be understood, that if the noble Lord was willing to admit the clause, he made the concession to public feeling rather than to reason or argument. He did not consider the clause as an improvement in the Bill.
 Mr. Robinson  regarded the clause as an Amendment to the Bill; but he still objected to all the liability being cast on the woman, while the man was allowed to go free.
 Mr. Frankland Lewis  said, this clause was rather explanatory of the views recommended by the Commissioners. Its effect would be to throw the child upon the settlement of the mother, and thereby prevent the evils arising from unpleasant interference of different parishes, and those scenes which so frequently took place before the Magistrates. He thought it was most desirable that the parish should have no inducement to interfere until interference had become absolutely necessary. Admitting that a responsibility should rest upon the putative father of the child, it was of the greatest importance that the charge made upon him should be confined to the actual expenses incurred, so that a surplus should never remain in the hands of the parish.
 Sir Henry Willoughby  said, that he was anxious to draw the attention of the noble Lord to an important question. The proviso enacted, that no woman shall have any claim, title, or interest to any
 718 per quod servitium amisit l
 Mr. Miles  rose to submit the clause of which he had given notice, as a substitution for that proposed by the noble Lord. It was important the House should know in what situation it stood with regard to the law of bastardy. By the 69th, 70th, and 71st clauses, they had declared that in future the burthen of an illegitimate child should be entirely thrown on the mother, and that all responsibility should be removed from the putative father, or in other words that the woman was the seducer, and the man the seduced. He could not view such an enactment without the most serious apprehensions, the clause he proposed would therefore place some portion of' the responsibility on the head of the father. It would also remedy another very considerable evil. At present it was the system of the parish rather to consider the circumstances of the putative father, and his ability to pay the demand made upon him, than what would be a sufficient indemnity for the
 716
 Lord Althorp  said, that as he saw that the opinion of the House was in favour of agreeing to this clause in its amended shape, he should offer no further opposition to it. He supported it, however, as matter of expediency, in consequence of the excitement which had been raised against it in the parishes; but he must state that, upon strict principle, he could not at all agree with its propriety.
 Lord Althorp  had before stated, that he preferred the clause contained in the Bill. He considered that the effect of the hon. Member's Amendment would be so to punish the man by imprisonment, that he would be induced to marry the woman in order that he might escape the punishment. This would be most injurious, as it would lead to many improvident marriages. With regard to the question of whether the order of the Magistrates upon the father should be for the support of the mother and the child, or the child only, he thought it should be of such an amount as would cover the expenses of the mother from the period of her being with child till her confinement, but that afterwards the father should be called on to maintain the child only, and not the mother. With respect to a surplus remaining in the hands of the parish, he was of opinion that would seldom occur, because the parish
 717
 Lord Althorp  proposed a new clause to the effect that no rules or by-laws made or sanctioned by commissioners should be such as to oblige the inmates of a workhouse to attend any religions service that they did not conscientiously believe in; or to oblige the children in a workhouse to be educated in any faith that their parents did not approve of, and that the ministers of all religious persuasions should be at liberty to visit workhouses at any period of the day, at the request of any of the inmates, for the purpose of affording them religious instruction. The noble Lord said, he thought this new clause would meet all the purposes which the Amendment that the hon. Member (Mr. Langdale) had proposed was intended to accomplish. With regard to orphan children, he believed it would be admitted that it would be most desirable to educate them in the religious principles of the Established Church of the country.
 Mr. O'Connell  was sorry to obtrude himself on the attention of the House at so early a stage of the debate, especially as the right hon. Gentleman had thought fit to open so little of the merits or demerits of the measure under consideration.
 Mr. O'Connell  resumed.—The right hon. Gentleman's alterations related only to minor details; of course, therefore, he (Mr. O'Connell) could not vary the course of which he had given notice, and in which he felt bound to persevere. He would not enter into the details of the Bill more than he could possibly help, and still less should he attempt to discuss, except to the extent of two or three words, what had lately fallen from the right hon. Gentleman. It was manifest that the right hon. Gentleman did not mean to abide by the present valuation, inasmuch as the amount of compensation fixed by the Commissioners was to be liable to investigation, with due precautions, calculated neither to exclude just claims, nor encourage frivolous or vexatious appeals. This was perfectly fair, and Irishmen required no more on this point. They were quite ready to consent to every precaution
 735 736 vœ victis 737 738 739 740 l., l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. 741 vœ victis 742 743 744 745 746 747
 Mr. Lefroy  said, that the House and the country would be indebted to the right hon. Gentleman's speech for at least knowing what the opinions and views of his Majesty's Government were. The Commission had been properly described by the hon. and learned member for Tipperary; and if so sore a blister was to be applied to Ireland, the sooner she was made to go through the misery of it the better. The excitement that would be caused by this Commission in every parish in Ireland would resemble that of an election with universal suffrage. If ever there was a curse upon the land for numbering the people, this Commission would be one. There was no difference of opinion about it in Ireland; all parties looked upon it as the same unmitigated evil. With respect to the proposition of applying the funds of the Church to purposes of "general utility," as it was called, that was a plan which he should always oppose to the uttermost. He had never heard any reason advanced to show why the property of the Church of Ireland differed from the property of the Church of England. The only reason that had been glanced at in argument was, that of the population in Ireland being of a different religion. But the endowments of the Church had not been given to any particular portion of the community, but to the religion of the State. If any one thought a better religion could be found than the Protestant religion, let him come boldly forward and propose to have it changed from the Protestant to the Catholic, and see whether that House or the people of England or of Scotland would agree to it. It had been argued, that because there was a diminution of the numbers of any sect possessing property, that property ought to be given to the Government or to Parliament, and the owners be divested of it. He would contend, that where a State religion had been
 766 767 l. l. l. 768
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that notwithstanding his thankfulness to the eloquent member for Coventry, and his admiration of the sentiments of the noble Lord, he could not comply with his request; he had to satisfy, not himself alone, but the people of Ireland. He must oppose the Bill in every one of its stages, if this resolution were not carried; he had no other alternative.
 Mr. Secretary Rice  said, that an imputation more grave and serious than that which the House had just heard pronounced had never been cast against any set of men holding the responsible situation of advisers of the Crown. In the first place, the hon. and learned member for the University of Dublin, had taxed his Majesty's Government with such a degree of insincerity and duplicity, that no individual among them could ever dare to hold up his head again if the charge were in any way well founded. The hon. and learned Member charged his Majesty's Ministers with having endeavoured to delude all the parties in that House upon a measure of vast importance like the present, for the mere purpose of prolonging a wretched and lingering existence in office, and of disgracing themselves before the country by conduct at once unwise and dishonest. They were accused of wishing to seduce the House into a Committee upon this Bill, for the purpose of acknowledging a principle upon which they intended to do something, but which something they had not in any way agreed upon. Why the principle had been avowed at the announcement of the Commission which had been made during the discussion of the motion brought forward by the hon. member for St. Alban's, and from the
 776 777 778 779 780
 Colonel Davies  expressed his approbation of the candour which had character-
 756 757
 Lord John Russell : The right on. Gentleman has brought against the Government two accusations; the one, that on a subject of so much delicacy and importance it has allowed its intentions to be known; the other, that it has not spoken out on this same subject in a manner sufficiently explicit. Without detaining the House by making one of these charges clash against the other, I am ready to declare at once, that it is impossible for Government to come to a conclusion as to the appointment of a Commission, without looking before appointing it, at the possible or probable consequences of its Report, and making up their minds, if a certain state of facts should be reported, not to shrink from the consequences, but propose such an appropriation of any surplus which may be found, as they may think advisable. It was the necessity of looking that question in the face which caused the late separation in the Government, and it is their fixed resolution to consider the question of appropriation, when the Commission now appointed enables them to do so on proper grounds, that constitutes the foundation of the agreement of the present Ministers. It is asked what reason is there for the appointment of the Commission? The answer is obvious—in order to obtain the information necessary to enable the Government to frame their measures. My reason for making the speech which the right hon. Baronet has referred to, was the pain I felt at the Minister being obliged to conduct the Government of Ireland by laws of coercion. On that occasion, however, I did not say, as the right hon. Gentleman supposes, that the Church of Ireland was the greatest grievance that any country had ever suffered—so far from it, I stated, that I thought the revenues of the Church ought to be reduced, because they were too great for its stability; thereby implying, that I desired and contemplated, by means of the measures to be adopted, the future stability of the Church. What is the passage which the right hon. Gentleman has misquoted? I stated, that the complaint of the people of Ireland against the appropriation of the Church revenues was as just a complaint as any people ever made. That was my opinion then, and is now—I have seen no reason to alter it. That is my reason for concurring heartily and
 797 798 "Since the suppression of the disturbances in the Western Counties, I have been turning my attention to the particular causes of those disorders, with the view of suggesting, if possible, a permanent remedy for preventing, in future, the recurrence of so great an evil. Upon the best consideration I have been able to give to this subject, I am satisfied, that tithes, and the occasional rigid exaction of them by the farmers and tithe-proctors have been the chief and immediate causes of the late, as well as of many former, disorders in this country. "Tithes, from the peculiar nature of this species of property, the perpetual fluctuations in their quantity and value, the difficulties insuperably incident to the modes of recovering and collecting them, have been often a subject of popular discontent; but, in Ireland, from the irritable temper of the lower orders of the people, the imperfect subordination to the laws, and the great proportion of the population being dissenters from the Established Church, they have been more frequently the occasion of popular commotion than perhaps in any other country. The high rents, especially of the smaller farms, of which the number is very great, may, also, have contributed to the dissatisfaction which has been so frequently and generally expressed against the payment of tithes in Ireland. "It has, however, been alleged, that tithes were merely the pretence, and that a spirit of disaffection to the Government was the real cause of the late disturbances, and that the confederacy of the Threshers was formed for the purposes of rebellion. But I feel it my duty on this occasion to state, that from all the information that I have been able to collect, and from the observation of the Judges who tried, and the Crown Lawyers who prosecuted a considerable number of the Threshers under the late Special Commission, it does not appear that any thing treasonable existed in that confederacy. To avoid or diminish the payment on account of tithes was the main object they had in view. To this they certainly joined a reduction of the dues paid to the priest, and in some instances, a reduction of rents. In the years 1786 and 1787, when similar disturbances prevailed very extensively in the province of Munster, the very same objects were professed, and then there was not a pretence for suspecting, nor was it suspected, I believe, that any treasonable motive or purpose existed among the insurgents. I am well aware that a certain degree of disaffection exists among the lower orders of the people, and that a confederacy against the payment of tithes, at all times alarming, is peculiarly dangerous at present, and might easily be diverted in case of invasion, to the purposes of rebellion, and it is this very danger, which I feel to be great and urgent, that has led me to seek most anxiously some remedy for this permanent general source of discontent." 799 "To assess, in the form of a land-tax, upon all the arable lands, in just proportion the amount of the present receipt for tithes—the land-tax to be collected from the occupying tenants in the first instance, and afterwards, on the expiration of their leases from their next immediate landlords." 800 801 802 803 804
 Mr. Edward Ellice  said, that nothing could have surprised him less than the tone and manner of the hon. and learned Gentleman; or, that persons who declared themselves determined to oppose the Government, should be equally prepared to withhold all confidence from them. It
 762 Cheers. 763 764 765
 Mr. Littleton  begged the hon. Gentleman's pardon; perhaps he might be permitted to state one thing which he had omitted to mention, namely, that appeals would be granted under the liability of the parties appealing to pay costs, in order to prevent frivolous appeals.
 Mr. Littleton  said, that on making that Motion he felt that the House would expect from him a brief explanation of the alterations which it was now proposed to make in the Committee on this measure. He had on a former occasion stated, that he should move that this Bill be recom-
 732 pro forma 733 734 s.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  concurred with the hon. and gallant Member who had just sat down in thinking, that the present was the fitting time for the House to take some step. The views held by the noble Lord, the Prime Minister of England, in another House, and by the right hon. Baronet, the member for Tamworth, in this House, perfectly coincided, and therefore it was due to hon. Gentlemen on both sides of the House, that his Majesty's Ministers should speak out on the present occasion. The right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary for Ireland, had manifested great reserve throughout the discussions on the present measure. Although he did not exactly agree with the noble Lord opposite (Lord Morpeth), who had said nothing applicable to the question, yet if the proposition of the hon. and learned member for Dublin had been brought forward as a substantive Motion, he should have been inclined to have gone with the noble Lord; but he could not for a moment forget the principles on which he held his seat in that House, nor could he obliterate from his memory, that the people of Ireland looked for the total and entire abolition of tithes. Less than this would not give satisfaction to the people of Ireland; and though he entertained the highest respect for the talents and good feeling of the hon. and learned Member, yet he could not support the present proposition, because he was prepared to go much further than the terms expressed in the resolution. The right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary for Ireland, had said, that the House in acceding to this Bill was only legislating for a period of five years. He presumed it was in contemplation, that the Report of the Commis-
 758 759 s. s. s.
 Mr. French  wished to point out that part of the proposed alterations to which he particularly objected. He stood forward as the advocate of this Bill, nor would he join in a sweeping denunciation of its provisions. He was fully aware of the benefit which must result from cutting off the source of collision between the Protestant clergy and the people. It provided against a repetition of that distress to which, according to the statement of the hon. member for the University of Dublin, the clergy had been reduced by the non-payment of tithe; and though he must agree with the hon. member for Worcester, that justice was violated in compelling one man to pay the debt of another, by rendering the landlord liable for the defalcation of the tenant, still a sacrifice, made on the part of the landed proprietors within the bounds of moderation, for the attainment of tranquillity, might be desirable. They should recollect, that their individual interests were regulated by the general prosperity of the State; that this impost, now about to be done away with, had been for ages the greatest drawback on that prosperity; that it had always been the cause of combination and confederacy throughout the country; that, in the present inflammable state of public opinion in Ireland, the resistance to payment might be still further extended, and end in a terrific struggle between property and pauperism. They should also recollect, that were every vestige of the Protestant Church destroyed in Ireland, they could not, in justice, expect one shilling of this money to fall
 770 l. l. l. l. l. l. 771 l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Shaw  said, it was his intention to vote against the resolution of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, but, having done so, he was fully as much as ever opposed to the Motion of the right hon. Secretary for Ireland. In this he was guilty of no inconsistency. The hon. and learned member for Dublin and the Treasury Bench were precisely agreed upon this question. The only difference that existed between them was, that the hon. and learned member for Dublin had the manliness both to state and to act upon the principles which he declared. The Government stated, but had not the manliness to act upon the principles they entertained. If they had the manliness and the moral courage to act up to the
 772 773 * * † Ibid. p. 407. ‡ Ibid. 774 775
 Mr. Finch  contended that, if the Catholic priesthood had permitted the people to pay the tithes, they were very ready to pay them; and nothing would have been heard of this Bill. It was the object of the Church of Rome to destroy the Protestant Church, and to establish itself in the
 769
 Mr. Hume  said, that he seconded the Amendment, because he thought that it would, if agreed to, tend to beneficial
 748
 Mr. Sheil  observed, that it struck him with surprise, that after the speech of the hon. and gallant member for Worcester, one point of the question had not called forth some explanation from his Majesty's Ministers, particularly as it was a point to which much importance was attached. He thought that the opinion of any one of his Majesty's Ministers, openly and candidly declared, would carry much weight with it; and he thought it but fair, for the satisfaction of the House and the public, that it should be made known how far unanimity on this point subsisted among the members of the Cabinet, or what shades of dissent were to be found among them. A noble Lord in another place—an expression quite parliamentary, if not always quite intelligible—was reported to have expressed himself favourable to the application of the surplus of the Church-property solely to the purposes of the Protestant Church. Had this been said, or had it not? Why did not Ministers come forward and boldly declare their sentiments, instead of referring to the expression of their opinions? He did not pretend to say, that Ministers had done nothing: far from it. Ireland had to thank them for two great boons. They had given up the appropriation clause, and they had done something else. They had granted a Commission; but he would ask them, would Ireland be satisfied with the political results of that Commission? The only difference between the conduct of the noble Lord on the occasion of moving the previous question as an Amendment to the Motion of the hon. member for St. Alban's, and on
 760 761
 Mr. Ward  said, that after the statement of the noble Lord opposite, that the number of Commissioners, if found to be insufficient for making a report by next
 805
 Sir Robert Peel  found it quite impossible to resist the appeal which had just been made to the House by his right hon.
 781 782 783 784 l. s. l. 785 l s. l. s. 786 787 788 Althorp: 789 Morpeth: 790 791 l. l. l. 792 793 bonâ fide * * 794 * * * † Ibid. p. 1276. 795 *
 Lord Althorp  had not yet heard any argument to show the necessity of adopting the Resolution moved by the hon. and learned Gentleman. The hon. and learned Gentleman had complained, that his Majesty's Ministers had not declared their principles upon the subject of Church-property; but, at the same time that the hon. and learned Gentleman made this complaint, he afforded proof—proof incontestable—that they had already fully declared the principles on which they meant to act. For, when the hon. and learned Gentleman inquired why the present Ministry had separated from the right hon. Gentleman who had lately presided over the Colonial Department, he had himself stated, that the separation would not have taken place unless there existed a serious and most decided difference of principle. He might content himself with this proof, because as the hon. and learned Gentleman had stated, it would have been insane in the Ministers to separate themselves from Gentlemen of such powerful talents as were possessed by his noble and right hon. friends, unless there had been such a decided difference of principle. That, however, was not all; for the Government had declared their opinions—had declared that the Parliament of this country did possess the right to appropriate to other than purely Church purposes such portions of the revenues of the Church in Ireland as might be more than was required for the benefit and advantage of the Protestant population of that country. The Government had not only declared this, but had also declared, and had taken means to carry that declaration into effect, that as soon as it was proved and shown, not what was the amount of revenue possessed, by the Church of Ireland, but what
 754 755
 Lord Morpeth  said, that as the hon. and learned member for Dublin had called upon Members boldly to come forward and state their opinions, he would obey the call, although he knew the observation of the hon. and learned Member was directed to Members of more weight and importance than himself. At the same time, however, he did not feel it would be necessary for him to take up much of the time of the House. He thought that when a question was at rest it was prudent to leave it so, that was, when a subject was not excited that it should not be raised, on the principle that they should leave well alone, or, according to the old maxim,  quieta non movere. 749 750 751 752 Tuque prior, tu parce, genus quæ ducis Olympo. 753
 Mr. O'Connell : Are we to appeal to the Commissioners of Police when we meet with obstructions as we come down to the House to perform our public functions? and are not you, Sir, the fit protector of the privileges of the Commons of England, when they are obstructed in the discharge of their duties? This music-shop which is opened over the way, is not to be an impediment to us [ "Oh! oh!"
 Colonel Williams  informed the noble Lord, who appeared to mistake the hon. member for Coventry's share in the question for his, that he was the Mover of the Resolution. Although the noble Lord might be known and allowed to pass, he had been impeded. He repeated that he had experienced obstruction; he had stated the facts roundly, and explained to the House his whole progress, downwards and upwards. He did not attempt to break through the ranks of the soldiers; on the contrary, he very submissively walked in their rear, till he came near the House, and then the outrage took place. The obstruction was unjustifiable. There was no occasion for having any street, particularly that leading to the House of Commons, lined with bayonets. He was willing to accede to his hon. friend's suggestion and withdraw the Motion. He hoped, however, that the matter would be taken into consideration. His object was, to get at the parties who had given the improper orders.
 Mr. Ewart  rose to bring forward his Motion, relative to the duties on East-India produce. This was the second time he presented himself to the House for the purpose of pressing on them the justice and the necessity of removing that inequality of duties which now affected their fellow-subjects in the East Indies. If the Motion should not be assented to now, he would bring it forward Session after Session, until justice should be done to the natives of India, and to the manufacturers and consumers of Great Britain. Several inhabitants of Calcutta presented a Petition to that House, praying that the duties on sugar and rum should be equalized; and this petition was supported subsequently by a petition from the East-India Company itself, and recommended by the Committee of their own House which sat two years back on trade and commerce. The Report of that Committee recommended five things; first, the opening of the China trade; secondly, that the East-India Company should cease to act as a trading Company; thirdly, that the transit duties should be repealed; but their principal recommendation was, that the duties on sugar, rum, tobacco, and coffee, the produce of the East Indies, should be equalized. The first duty, that on sugar, was, however, by far the most important. It amounted to 32 s s 833 d d s 834 ad valorem s s d s d s s l 835
 Mr. Poulter  was extremely desirous to remove all inequality by which prisoners were affected, under any circumstances. If the hon. member for Liverpool would consent to strike out the last proviso in the clause, every inequality would be removed. The prisoner would be put upon the same footing with the prosecutor, by being left to the exercise of the same privilege the prosecutor possessed of addressing the Court by his Counsel, and thus many of the erroneous verdicts which were frequently returned would be avoided, and the time of the Court of King's Bench not occupied with applications to set them aside. Unless the hon. Member would consent to withdraw the proviso, he (Mr. Poulter) should feel it to be his duty to take the sense of the House upon it. The hon. Member concluded by moving, that all the words after "notwithstanding" to the end of the clause, be expunged.
 Mr. Wynn  said, the clause was objectionable on several grounds. Its effect would be, to prohibit the Counsel for the prosecution addressing the Jury, until after the depositions of the witnesses had been taken. But it must occur to every one at all conversant with the practice of criminal Courts, that in many cases of circumstantial evidence, there would be no possibility of obtaining a conviction, unless the Jury had pointed out to them previously by the Counsel, those strong points in the evidence of the witnesses which bore directly upon the charge in the indictment. He could mention a case where there could be no doubt entertained of the moral guilt of certain murderers, and yet it was impossible any conviction could have taken place, if the clause now under consideration had
 822
 Sir William Rae  said, the English law contained a great many imperfections when contrasted with the criminal law of Scotland. He could not understand the principle on which the English form of indictment was maintained. It gave no information to the prisoner of the nature of the offence for which he was to be tried, or stated directly what the charge was, for which he was to be arraigned at the Bar. The form of indictment in Scotland, however, contained a most accurate and minute statement of the crime of which the prisoner stood charged; and the time and place of its committal, together with all the circumstances attending it, were set forth in such simple and clear terms as to be intelligible to every person who read it. All these circumstances were so necessary to be correctly stated in the indictment, that if the evidence adduced in support of it at the trial turned out to be different to the circumstances contained in the indictment, that fact alone would be a sufficient defence on the part of the prisoner to secure his acquittal. The indictment rendered the case as plain as any statement by Counsel could possibly be, and in some cases a great deal plainer. In another part of the criminal law of England, a great anomaly existed, and it appeared very difficult for him to understand why, in a charge for a misdemeanour only, the prisoner should be permitted to address the Court by his Counsel, but that in a case where the life of a prisoner was concerned, such a permission was granted to the prosecutor, and not to the prisoner. Was it right that Counsel should be allowed against a prisoner, and that none should be permitted to address the Court in his defence?
 Viscount Howick  said, it had been stated by the hon. member for Liverpool, that it would be most desirable, in effecting any alterations in the present law, to introduce no new or untried practice, but to let the new form of the proceedings in the trial of criminals be governed by some well-known forms that had undergone fair trial, and were found on experience to operate well. He thought after the statement which the House had just heard from the hon. and learned Member, the object of the hon. member for Liverpool would not be accomplished by the clause now under consideration: there would still be a great discrepancy between the criminal law of
 823
 Mr. Wynn  was of opinion it would be a much more judicious course to leave it to the discretion of the judges to decide in what cases counsel should be heard on the part of the prosecutor, and also on the part of the prisoner.
 Mr. Eardley Wilmot  had supported this Bill from feelings of humanity to the prisoner and justice to the public, and he could not help saying, that he considered this clause injurious to both, and on that ground he should oppose it. He had seen some thousand prisoners convicted in the course of twenty-eight years' experience, and he had never witnessed any conviction in which he believed the prisoner to be innocent. If this clause were permitted to pass, the time of the Court would be taken up with long speeches upon the indictment of every pickpocket who was brought before the Court; the feelings and passions of the jury would be appealed to, and a decision given that was not founded upon justice. He believed if the Bill passed in its present shape many innocent prisoners would be found guilty by the
 824
 Mr. Pollock  stated, that Mr. Wilde informed him that during seven months of his shrievalty he had saved seven convicts from an ignominious death on the ground of their innocence alone. If this had been the case in seven months, it was alarming to consider what a number of innocent persons must have suffered in the course of years. The fact was, the prosecutor and the prisoner were not on a par. He thought if the Amendment of the noble Lord were adopted, without some check upon the counsel, the prisoner, instead of being benefitted, would be injured. Counsel had the power of placing a case much more strongly before a jury by means of an artful cross-examination in some cases, than by a regular address to the jury. He believed that justice would not be done to the prisoner unless he were allowed a reply upon the whole case, after the counsel for the prosecution should have observed upon the evidence on the part of the prisoner; and this was the opinion of a high legal authority. He did not think, if this was permitted, so much time would be occupied in making the speeches as was already consumed in the cross-examination of witnesses.
 Mr. Ewart  said, that one great object of the Bill was, to give the prisoner a reply on the prosecutor; let there be speech for speech, but not two speeches for one, and let the judge be merely an arbiter between the parties. He would propose an Amendment which would have this effect, allowing the statement of counsel to take precedence of the evidence, and this he thought would meet all the wishes that had been expressed.
 Sir George Grey  expressed his full concurrence in the principle of the Bill, and was of opinion, after giving the subject his best consideration, that the most efficient way of carrying that principle into effect would be by the Amendment of the noble Lord (Lord Howick). He considered the Amendment just proposed by the hon. member for Liverpool quite useless, as it must be evident to every one acquainted with the proceedings in criminal cases, that there was a very wide difference between the opening speech for the prosecution, and the speech which a counsel would make on the behalf of a prisoner.
 Mr. Hill  concurred in the general principle of the Bill, but thought justice would not be done to the prisoner in a criminal
 825
 Sir George Strickland  thought, that it was most desirable that as little change should take place in the existing forms as possible in carrying the Amendment into effect. If an opening speech was allowed to the counsel for the prosecution, he agreed with the hon. member for Liverpool, the prisoner should enjoy the privilege of answering that speech by means of counsel. Great injury would be done to the prisoner by allowing the counsel for the prosecution a right of reply. Why, he asked, was the House so niggard of this trifle of mercy to the prisoner? For many years past, instances had continually occurred of the execution of innocent men. Would the House consent to the continuance of such lamentable occurrences? He attended a trial himself, and left it with a full conviction of the man's innocence. Had a counsel addressed the jury in his behalf, he must have been acquitted, but he had been a witness of that man's execution. Such dreadful consequences he wished to arrest, and therefore he should vote with the hon. member for Liverpool.
 Mr. Bernal  apprehended it was impossible to make a mathematical equalization of the right of addressing the Court by Counsel in every case. The case was surrounded with difficulties; but if an equal advantage could not be given to both parties, it became the duty of the House, if a preponderance must exist, to let it fall on the side of the accused. They ought not to lose sight of the old maxim, that it was better to let ten guilty men escape than to make one innocent man suffer.
 Mr. Charles Buller  was of opinion that the effect of the suggestion of the hon. and learned member for Huntingdon, that counsel should make two speeches, would render them very desirous to avoid making any.
 Colonel Williams  rose to complain of a breach of privilege. "This morning," said the hon. Member, "as I was coming hither, I was interrupted in my progress and prevented from obtaining entrance into the House by troops in the streets and by a party of police blocking up its principal avenue. I endeavoured to get by the soldiers, and went down a little way below the door of the House, thinking that out of courtesy they would leave an opening for a member of Parliament. I was obliged, however, to return, and I returned along the line of soldiers and police, hoping and expecting that I should be able to come here. I found no means of getting here save through the lines of the police. As I was attempting to pass through, one of the police constables stopped me, and said, that I should not pass. I told him, that I must pass, as I was a member of Parliament. The constable replied 'It don't signify, you can't pass here.' This created some disturbance among the people round, and excited the attention of a person whom I take to have been a superintendent of police. I represented to him that I was a member of Parliament, on which he immediately said 'You must be permitted to go—you can cross here.' I cannot help thinking that it is an obstruction which ought not to be allowed—namely, the lining with troops the principal avenues of entrance to this House. Why are we to pass through a bristle of bayonets, and why, in avoiding them, are we to be exposed to the truncheons of the constables? I very much wish to know whether such practices are not unconstitutional. I think they are. I know no justification for assembling troops in this manner before the House. I know the reason why they were assembled to-day; but I think the troops are ordered out on such occasions too often. I would remind those in high situations of the saying of that glorious Sovereign, Queen Elizabeth, who declared that her subjects were her best guards. I shall end my complaint, by a Motion for an address to the Crown, which I trust will elicit the information whether an opening was ordered to be left this day for
 827
 Lord John Russell  admitted, that in any case where the privileges of the House had been infringed in the person of an hon. Member, that Member had a full right to make his complaint in the House. The only question in this particular instance was, as to the course which the hon. Member might think it best to pursue. His own opinion was, and he knew nothing more of the case than what he had heard from the hon. Member, that time should be allowed for inquiry, whether the interruption had been caused through ignorance, by some policeman totally unacquainted with his duties, or whether it took the appearance of an intentional, and therefore a grave infraction of the privileges of the House. He thought it right that inquiry should be made into the subject, but he also thought it right that the hon. and gallant member for Ashton should refrain from making any Motion upon it, or should adjourn the Motion which he had already made, until a state-
 831
 Mr. Robinson  stated his belief, that the obstruction which arose this morning, and which might occur again on the three subsequent days if steps were not taken to prevent it, had been occasioned by a file of soldiers stationed on each side of the street opposite to the House. There was no occasion for having soldiers stationed nearer the Abbey than Bridge-street, and he thought that if the duty of preserving order was left to the police there would be no ground of complaint.
 Mr. Warburton  observed, that the noble Lord had told the House, that he had come down to it shortly after his Majesty had arrived at the Abbey. Now, he (Mr. Warburton) had come down to it about ten minutes before his Majesty's arrival at the Abbey, and, like the noble Lord, he had met with nothing in the shape of obstruction. This, however, after the positive evidence
 829
 The Speaker : Having been so distinctly appealed to by the hon. and learned member for Dublin, I must premise by stating, that I am sure that the hon. and learned Gentleman did not wish—for he could not expect—that I should give an opinion upon
 830
 Mr. Henry Lytton Bulwer  hoped, that he might be permitted to say a few words in explanation. He thought, that before the noble Lord who had just sat down had made such a speech as that which he had just delivered, he should have known what had been said by those to whom he was professing to give an answer. The complaint against the police had not been brought forward by him, but by another hon. Member. On that complaint being brought forward, he had stood up to state what he had seen and experienced himself in the course of the day. He hoped that he might be permitted to make another observation, though it was not strictly in the way of explanation. He did not think it consistent either with the dignity of that House, or with the dignity of its Members, that they should go up and down hunting out the noble Lord as a receptacle for their complaints, when the insult of which they complained was not so much an insult to themselves personally, as an insult to the House.
 Mr. Henry Lytton Bulwer  expressed his belief that there had been no intentional obstruction or infringement of the privileges of Members, and recommended the hon. Member to withdraw his Motion.
 Mr. Henry L. Bulwer , in rising to second the Motion, said, that he did not consider it one of peculiar interest. It was not, however, useless to call the attention of the House to the conduct of the police that day, which he must say had been brutal and disgusting. The hon. member for Ashton was stopped by them; he had himself been stopped by them twice, very insolent and brutal language had been employed by them towards him, and such conduct ought not in his opinion to pass without notice from the House. Without entering further into the arguments of the hon. member for Ashton, he would observe, that it was as necessary and of as much importance that members of the House of Commons should come down without obstruction to that place to do their duty to the people, as it was that any other person, be his rank or dignity what it might, should go without obstruction on a party of pleasure. He thought that the Speaker, and every gentleman then in the House, would see the necessity of preserving the importance of the House in the importance of its humblest members. He concluded by seconding the Motion of Colonel Williams.
 Lord Howick  said, that he had heard with great regret, that the hon. member for Coventry had that day been exposed to ill-treatment from the police. Still he thought that those who were responsible for the management of the police had reason to complain of the course pursued by the hon. member for Coventry. If, instead of making a formal complaint to the House, the hon. Member had first complained to those who were responsible for the conduct of the police [ "Oh! oh!" 828
 Viscount Howick  certainly did pay rather more attention to the hon. member for Coventry than to the gallant Mover, because it appeared that the statement of the former Gentleman was more serious, as involving the use of brutal language to Members of the House. It seemed that as
 832
 Mr. Stanley  said, an occurrence took place that morning to which he begged to call the attention of the House for a moment. Without having previously given him any notice of his intention, an hon. Gentleman, the member for the county of Cork (Mr. F. O'Connor), stated that morning, on presenting a petition to the House, that he (Mr. Stanley) was one, among others connected with the Government, who subscribed a sum of money to forward the return of one of the candidates at the Dungarvon election. It would have been no more than common courtesy had the hon. Member mentioned to him, particularly as he was in the House only two minutes before, that it was his intention to mention this circumstance, for which, as there was not the least foundation, he could not allow it to remain for a moment uncontradicted.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, there was more than one mistake in this matter. He was not present at the time the matter occurred that morning. The document adverted to, however, in the discussion, did not at all authorize the mention of the right hon. Gentleman's name. If the grounds of the charge against the right hon. Gentleman were looked into, he would see there was no necessity that the right hon. Gentleman should deny the charge at all.
 Colonel Perceval  said, it was wasting the time of the House to spend it in debating as to how those letters were obtained, as in his opinion all the cases quoted were equally discreditable. Mr. Saurin had as much reason to complain of a breach of morality as the present Solicitor General for Ireland as the letters of both were obtained by unhallowed means. He hoped, however, that the matter would be fully investigated.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  was willing to admit, that those who gave such letters to the public were responsible for the correctness of the means by which they were obtained. He entertained no desire, but, on the contrary, he felt every disinclination to give utterance to a word offensive to the Solicitor General for Ireland, who was not there to defend himself, and whom he believed to be in private life a gentleman of great amiability and worth. He was bound,
 844
 Mr. Littleton  felt the utmost astonishment at the extraordinary proceeding of the hon. and learned Member, in bringing charges of so grave a nature without enabling him, by previously communicating them to him, to procure any information on the subject. The hon. and learned Gentleman had given neither to him or his hon. friend, any intimation of the charges he intended bringing forward. Had he done so they would have been prepared with evidence to meet these charges. The hon. and learned Member charged a Member of this House with no less a crime than per-
 842 F. O'Connor:
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  said, he hoped he might be allowed a few words by way of reply to the serious charge brought against him. He had, as he had already informed the House, told the right hon. Secretary for Ireland of his intention to charge the right hon. ex-Secretary for the Colonies. The right hon. Secretary for Ireland, had applied harsh terms to the individuals who procured these papers. He had no knowledge whatever of them, and he could not therefore, undertake to defend them. He had received the papers from the hon. member for Dungarvon, though the hon. and learned member for Dublin, in whose possession they had been, he had no doubt whatever would have been able to throw light on the subject, if his attendance as chairman of Mr. Harvey's Committee had not precluded his presence there. The right hon. Secretary for Ireland had said, that if he had intimated to him the grounds of his charge, he would give him an opportunity of bringing it before the House; but he did not think it consistent with the dignity of the House that any hon. Member should do that. He stood on his own integrity as the Representative of a large constituency; and he required no aid whatever either from the right hon. Secretary or any other hon. Member, in stating to the House any case of grievance worthy of its consideration. The right hon. Secretary had made but a lame defence for his friend the Solicitor-General for Ireland. He said he believed he had interfered, but he thought it at worst only an imprudence. But by this admission the right hon. Gentleman had fastened a charge where there was before but a suppositious inference. For so much had the Solicitor-General for Ireland to be grateful to the right hon. Secretary. The case was now in such a condition that a Committee of the House to investigate into the whole transaction was absolutely imperative; and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman who had the honour of his friend so much at heart would move for it himself.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  presented a Petition front an individual named Richard Keefe, of the Borough of Dungarvon, complaining of the conduct of the authorities towards him in respect to his vote at the late Election for that Borough. The hon. and learned Gentleman proceeded to complain of the acts of the stipendiary Magistrates in the neighbourhood of Dungarvon, and assured the House, that a number of the supporters of the present member for Dungarvon were, without cause, crammed into the Bridewell, and the stipendiary Magistrate refused to take bail for them, or at least demanded such excessive bail, that it was tantamount to a refusal. The petitioner, who was a shoemaker, he refused to release, unless he found bail to the amount of 600 l 841 l l l
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  explained. It had been communicated over and over again to the hon. member for Waterford, that this subject would be brought forward, but the hon. Member did not choose to appear. The letters were only that morning put into his hands, as it was the duty of the hon. member for Dublin to present them. He had only intended to speak to the petition.
 Mr. Lambert  said, he could never consent to an inquiry founded upon documents obtained in the infamous manner in which the present letter had been obtained. If the accusation was brought forward upon evidence fairly obtained, he would not object to the fullest inquiry.
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  said, that the Gentlemen who were now in power, and who complained so much of the use made of a confidential letter, had not scrupled to avail themselves of a letter similarly obtained well known as the "tame-elephant letter." The hon. member for Wexford seemed to think, that it was no matter how foul the means used might be, so that they were concealed.
 Mr. Sheil  said, there was one phrase in the letter which he wished to call attention to. It was that which said "making altogether 500 l." l 845 l 846
 Mr. Gisborne  said, that the charge against the stipendiary magistrate was one of a most serious nature. And as it had been asserted that the Solicitor-General had sent down money to Dungarvon for electioneering purposes, it was impossible that the matter could be passed over without inquiry. Still he thought that the hon. and learned member for Cork county was anything but discreet in bringing the subject before the House without giving the hon. member for Waterford notice of his intention.
 Sir George Murray : The petition which I hold in
 847 regium donum 848 regium donum regium donum.
 Mr. Vernon Smith  said, he had undertaken to offer a few observations to the House on this question, having been personally requested to do so by the noble Duke who had lately presided over the Post-office Department. He trusted, however, that the House would do him the justice to believe, that he would not
 869 870 Hume: 871 872 l d 873 l 874 875
 Mr. Potter  rose to move as an amendment, that a provision be added to the clause in the following words:—" Provided always that nothing in this Act, or the said recited Acts, shall extend to prohibit the sale of fruit, confectionary, soda-water, ginger-beer, or any other unintoxicating beverage."
 Mr. Poulter  regretted it was his duty to interpose to prevent the introduction of such a proviso. He had received numerous applications to enlarge the existing law on this subject, and as he had refused to accede to them, he felt bound on the other hand to prevent any diminution of the law, as it now stood. If the House were to make an exception of any particular trade, shops would immediately be set up in all parts of the town for the sale on Sunday of the article excepted. The amendment proposed by the hon. Member would expose him to the charge of having introduced a Bill for the violation of the Sabbath, rather than one for its better observance.
 Mr. Poulter  opposed the Amendment. The Bill provided, that shops for the purpose of baking should be kept open until half-past one, which gave ample time to those who sent their provisions to the baker's, without the unnecessary extension of the time to two.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the Bill ought to be called "A Bill to establish Baking on Sundays." He hoped the House would not sanction this Bill. It was childish legislating on such a subject as this. It was admitted, that nothing was more objectionable than legislation between master and servant on the subject of wages, and yet this Bill proposed to interfere on that subject. He hoped the hon. Member would give it up. He would put it to him seriously whether there was not a stricter religious observance of the Lord's-day in London at the present time than there ever had been before. He recollected at the period he was a student at the Temple very few families, comparatively speaking, attended divine service, whereas now nearly every family attended. The observance of the Sabbath seemed to proceed in an inverse ratio to the enforcement of the law. As
 852
 Mr. Poulter  would appeal to the House whether the petitions which had been sent up from all parts of the country did not demand legislative interference on this subject? The evils the Bill was intended to remedy were most notorious. He had received many communications from different parts of the country, complaining of the increase of trading on the Sabbath-day; indeed, it was only the other day he was informed by the rector of Lambeth that there was more marketing carried on in some parts of that parish on a Sunday than any other day in the week. He had also received a letter from Dublin requesting him to include Ireland in the Bill, but as the subject had been taken up by his hon. friend, the member for the University of Dublin, he declined to accede to such a recommendation. He believed such a Bill to be necessary, and should therefore not listen to the suggestions of the hon. member for Dublin to abandon it.
 Mr. Fysche Palmer  strongly objected to many of the enactments contained in this Bill. He would put it to the House whether it was just to compel the labouring man, who perhaps had but one room for all his family, to purchase his meat on a Saturday night, and hang it up in his bed-room until the Sunday morning, in every season of the year, because it might be injurious to some tradesmen to permit the sale of provisions on a Sunday morning, or because it was considered by some persons to be a breach of the religious observance of the Sabbath. He agreed with the hon. member for Dublin that the Sabbath was much better observed now than formerly.
 Mr. Ward  had told his constituents, that it was by their own individual exertions, and the exertions of the clergymen, that the morality of the people would be improved. The recommendation he had given had produced an entire change in their sentiments, and he had not received another application to support the Sabbath Bill. He thought that legislation on such
 853
 Mr. Finch  admitted the subject was a most difficult one to legislate upon; but the speech of the hon. member for Dublin would prevent any legislation on the subject. He thought this Bill would check immorality, and therefore he should give it his support.
 Mr. Gisborne  agreed that the Sabbath was much better observed now than formerly, The hon. Member had said this Bill was only a revival of the old law. If the old law had fallen into disuse, he asked why that was? Was it not because it was opposed to the general feelings. He was of opinion that any legislation a whit beyond the general feelings on the subject would be attended with the most injurious effects. It was said the tradesman who refused from conscientious motives to open his shop on the Sabbath would be greatly injured by permitting any trade to be carried on on the Sunday. He was of a different opinion; he thought the conscientious buyer would always protect the conscientious seller. The feeling which once existed in the country in favour of this measure had very much cooled.
 Mr. Poulter  denied, that any diminution of the public feeling on this subject had taken place. An hon. Member held thirty petitions in favour of some legislative measure of this kind, but had not been permitted to present them before the discussion commenced. So far as he himself was concerned, he had no personal wish on the subject; he only desired the sense of the House should be expressed. He denied, however, that either law legislation, or the feeling of the country had slept on the subject.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, as there had been so much legislation on the subject, a most decisive reason had been given for not adding to the heap. He should therefore move, that the Chairman Report Progress.
 Sir George Grey  said, the course pursued by the hon. and learned member for Dublin was a most extraordinary one. He should be glad if that hon. Gentleman would point out from what part of England a petition had not come calling upon the House to pass some measure on this subject. The House last Session sanctioned the principle, that some legislation ought to take place on the subject, though it rejected the particular Bill that was introduced. A Bill had now been sub-
 854
 Mr. Beaumont  hoped the hon. Member would press his Amendment to a division, if it was only to show the opinion the House entertained of that feeling of puritanical fanaticism which had mingled itself up of late too much with the spirit and temper of the times.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, undoubtedly his intention was to get rid of this Bill, though he did not think the mode he had adopted a very desirable one. He thought, however, it would be much more convenient to throw it out now, than after two or three days' tedious discussion in Committee during this sultry weather.
 Sir Andrew Agnew  said, that so far from this Bill being an oppression to the poor, the majority of the petitions in its favour had proceeded from them.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, it was quite necessary to allow these officers compensation.
 Major Beauclerk  suggested, that after the explanation which had been given on the part of Government the Motion should be withdrawn.
 Mr. Edward Lytton Bulwer  thought, there were many matters connected with this subject which rendered inquiry desirable; amongst others of considerable importance, was the deficiency in the payments to the revenue, amounting on the average to 517 l s d 867 l l l s d l l 868 l l
 Mr. Aglionby  hoped, that the House would consider well before they adopted the principle of compensation in this case. In his opinion, they were not entitled to
 892
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that it was the intention of the Government to employ as packets vessels built upon a new principle.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that the question was, what the income of those gentlemen was at the period of accepting their present offices, and if their income would be less after the passing of this Bill than it then was?
 Mr. Buckingham  complained, that the old Post-office packets had been superseded by gun-brigs. The former were excellent vessels, whilst the latter were insecure and unfit for the service. A person resident at Falmouth had informed him, that from 1793 there was not a single instance of a Post-office packet having been lost, whilst in six years no fewer than seven gun-brigs had foundered at sea. From their construction the latter vessels were very liable to be taken a-back. He would undertake to prove, that there was specie enough lost in one of the gun-brigs to defray the expense of a new set of packets. The hon. Member also complained that newspapers published in our own colonies were subject to a duty on being brought into England. When he was sent from India, he brought some newspapers with him, for which he was compelled to pay 30 l 881
 Mr. Hume  supported the Motion, and was of opinion that a Commission of Inquiry would be of great service. In the days in which the former Commission was granted, it certainly was difficult enough to procure inquiry, and yet, notwithstanding the difficulty and the delay with which in those days such inquiries were burthened, the Committee then appointed produced evidence enough to show, that the department which they were appointed to investigate was in a most miserable condition. Were the few improvements which had been so ostentatiously pointed out sufficient to satisfy the House? The hon. Gentleman had sneered at Commissions. Was not this rather odd in a Member of a Government which abounded in Commissions? If the Ministry would grant a
 876 l l 877 l l l 878
 Mr. Hume  begged to ask the hon. and learned Gentleman, first, what he assumed the expense of the establishment at present to be? secondly, what the prospective expense would be? and, thirdly, at what period the salaries should be taken as a criterion for the compensation to be given to the officers who should be discharged in consequence of the Bill? He doubted the policy of allowing the Lords of the Treasury to interfere with the County-rates, which were properly placed solely under the control of the Magistrates.
 Mr. Hesketh Fleetwood  rose to submit to the House a Motion, of which he had a considerable time ago given notice, the object of which was, the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the duties, modes of appointment, amount of remuneration, and all other matters relating to British consuls resident in foreign states, with a view to rendering their services more conducive to the interests of commerce. He had reason to believe that the appointment of the Committee for which he intended to move, would not be opposed by the noble Lord opposite (the Secretary for Foreign Affairs) except with reference to time, and on that point he imagined there would be between them but little difference of opinion, for he should not stickle for a few months more or less. If he should succeed in inducing his Majesty's Government really and sincerely to take the matter up, the object he had in view would be to a great extent accomplished; it was material, however, that hon. Members should, in the meanwhile, turn their attention to the subject, for it was one of great commercial importance. He had at the present moment in his possession, various letters and communications from commercial men, complaining of the inefficiency of our consular system, and in his opinion that inefficiency was so clearly made out, that it would be wasting the time of the House were he to urge it upon the attention of hon. Members by means of any observations of his own—his wish would rather be, to refer them to the documents then in his hand, to some of which he should call their attention before he sat down. The inefficiency, or at least a persuasion of the inefficiency of our consular system, prevailed almost universally, and whether that opinion was well or ill founded, it became the duty of Parliament to institute
 884 885 886 887 888
 Mr. Thicknesse  would therefore move "that the House do then resolve itself into a Committee, to consider the Window-Tax."
 Mr. Thicknesse  rose, pursuant to notice, to move "That, after the end of the present financial half-year, the duty on each window above the number of thirty-nine, in any dwelling-house in Great-Britain, shall be the same as is now chargeable on each window, above the number of eleven and below the number of forty." After complaining of the unequal operation of the Window-tax, of its undue pressure on the middle classes, and the high degree in which it was favourable to the Aristocracy, he proceeded to say, that up to thirty-nine windows inclusive, there was an additional duty of 8 s d s d s d s d s d s 882 s d s d s d s d s d s d l s s d l s d s d 1. s d s d l s s d l s s d.; l s s d.; l s s d.; l s d s d s d s d l s d s d l s d s d
 Mr. Robert Wallace  said, that every argument he had heard against his Motion tended only to strengthen his conviction of its propriety. He was certainly not willing to press the question to a division, but he saw not the slightest reason to regret having brought it forward, for he had no doubt that the discussion which had that evening taken place would lead to beneficial results, and eventually to the correction of those faults in the establishment of the Post-office which had been made the subject of complaint.
 Mr. Robert Wallace  said, that, in rising to offer a few observations on the subject of the Post-office, he was well aware that he was undertaking a task of no small magnitude. His reason for undertaking it was his conviction that it was essentially necessary that this department of the public service should be placed soon upon a different footing. On a former night he had addressed himself to the transactions between England and France, and he had expressed his unqualified approbation of the course which had been pursued by the late Postmaster-General. As to papers entitled "Papers relating to the Post-office," which had been handed round to the Members of that House, he could not understand what right any party had to place such papers in the hands of Members; they were not papers that had been ordered to be printed by the House—they were not authorized by the Speaker, and no party, therefore, had a right to send them round in the manner in which they had been distributed. As to their contents, he would say, that they contained more delusive and inaccurate statements than could be well put together in such a compass, and on such a subject. This document enumerated various improvements that had been effected in the Post-office, and for which the Postmaster-General took credit. Now, if any one would take the trouble of going through the Reports which had been made by the Commissioners of Inquiry on the subject, it would be seen that all those boasted improvements had been long since recommended by those Commissioners. In advocating a change in the system of the Post-office, he wished to lay down  in limine 856 857 l l 858 859 l 860 l l s l s s 861 862 863 864 l l l l 865 Kelso Mail 866
 The Speaker  suggested, that a Motion such as the hon. Member had made, ought to be submitted to a Committee of the whole House.
 Lord Althorp  said, if a choice were to be made, he would prefer the appointment of a Commission to a Committee, because he thought it would be more likely to succeed; but the question was whether, under existing circumstances, it would be desirous to address his Majesty to appoint such a Commission? Before, however, he addressed the House on that point, he would advert to some of the observations of the hon. Member who had brought forward the Motion, and also those of the hon. member for Middlesex; and he must say, either that he had misunderstood them, or they had not a clear and distinct view of the regulations under which the Post-office ought to be placed. At one time they considered it simply as a source of revenue, and complained that the revenue had not increased. At another, they regarded the revenue as a matter of trifling consideration, and thought that should be disregarded when it in any way interfered with the convenience of the public. Now, he had no hesitation in saying that the public convenience ought to be considered, and that, at the same time, the revenue ought not to be thrown overboard. On this mixed principle, it was
 879 880
 Lord Althorp  contended, that the pressure of those taxes had been much exaggerated, and it was scarcely worth while at that period of the Session, to disturb the financial arrangements of the year for so small an object. He further thought, that in any arrangement which
 883
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that he certainly must admit, that the subject to which the attention of the House had been directed by the hon. Gentleman was one of vast importance and of universal interest; because unquestionably the inquiry into the details of that establishment, which was instituted to protect and direct our commerce in foreign countries, was a matter of serious consideration for this commercial country. He felt bound to do justice to the candid and straightforward manner in which the hon. Gentleman had brought forward his Motion. He had done this in a way which did great credit to his industry and fairness. Nevertheless, he must object to the proposition for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into this question at the present period of the Session, looking to the fact, that the number of Committees already sitting was so great, that, when fresh Committees were appointed on the Motion of hon. Members, the hon. Members proposed, in many cases, declared they could not attend them. The period of the Session also was such, that the hon. Gentleman might not be able to pursue his inquiry to such a result as might be satisfactory to the House or to the country. Another reason, too, which he must urge against the Motion proposed was, that he thought those who held, that the Consular Establishment should be submitted to the consideration of a Select Committee, would see, that the person at the head of
 889 890 891
 Mr. O'Connell  was sure, that the law of nations would not permit that a man who
 940
 Mr. O'Connell  thought, that if an agent of a foreign government enticed a British subject into his power, and then put him to death, there must be some law which would reach an act of that kind; and if so, our Government ought at least, now that this monster was in its power, to put the question into a train of judicial investigation. Language was not strong enough to express the feelings of detestation which every man must have for atrocious perfidy of this kind; and yet this wretch had polluted the Press of this country by his name affixed to an attempted vindication of his horrid deed. He must repeat, that he did think this was a case to which the law of nations would apply, and he hoped, therefore, that the noble Lord would take steps for having an opinion on the subject from proper quarters.
 Lord Granville Somerset  was afraid, that under this Bill it would be impossible for poor persons to obtain relief if they should be opposed by the parochial authorities. The pauper had no means of enforcing his claim to assistance, except by appeal to a distant central board, or by indicting the parish officers. That might lead to starvation and cruelty. He wished to give Magistrates a power of enforcing relief in cases of extreme emergency. He was also desirous, that the Secretary of State should exercise the same supervision with regard to any suspension or alteration of existing regulations by the Commissioners as in the case of new rules.
 Mr. Walter  said, that the Bill being in this advanced stage, he apprehended it was the duty of those who, like himself, had opposed it on its first introduction, to state whether their aversion was removed or diminished by the modifications it had undergone. It was possible, certainly, that the character of a measure might be totally altered by the various provisions introduced with a view to regulate its operation in detail: and he heard it said, with respect to this Bill, when objections were stated: "Oh, it will come out of the Committee a totally different thing." It had now come out of the Committee, and he asserted that it did not come out of it a totally different thing, but that whatever objections were entertained with respect to the principles of the measure at first, remained undiminished, or very little diminished, in its present stage. It was, in truth, as it had been justly called,—so far as related to the management and support of the poor, and in reference to the long-established Poorlaws,—a revolutionary measure. He did not think the statesmen of this age and nation wiser than the statesmen in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, and that there-
 914 915 916 917 918
 Mr. George Frederick Young  considered that it would be an act of moral cowardice on his part if he did not now say, that he still entertained towards the measure the same feelings of opposition which he expressed in the beginning of the discussion. He charged the promoters of the measure at the time of violating the soundest doctrines and principles of legislation when he saw them introducing a measure into that House based on opinions formed from partial conclusions. He knew many instances in which local abuses had been remedied without having recourse to general measures when parties on the spot wished to interfere. The Constitution of this country was dependent on the habits of the people, and he particularly thought all matters relating to charity, such as the relief of the poor, should be left to the feeling and good sense of the people without any interference on the part of the Government. He cordially concurred in several of the remarks made by the hon. member for Berkshire. It seemed that the noble Lord meant to make experiments upon the institutions of the country. He had one consolation however. The Bill
 919
 Mr. Benett  considered the powers granted to the Commissioners as being most outrageous, and he was surprised that any hon. Gentleman could consent to that portion of the Bill which conferred those powers. The intention of uniting parishes was monstrous. The parishes in the country and in country towns would never consent to be united with the parishes of manufacturing towns. It would be very easy, however, to find guardians of the poor who would wish to unite such parishes, and to make the union between them permanent. It was, therefore, his opinion that the clause which related to the union of parishes was an excessively unjust one. By that, of course, he meant unjust towards the agricultural parishes. He did not like the plan of having the parishes taken out of the hands of their provisional managers and placed in those of a Central Board of Commissioners. He objected strongly to the cramming of adults into workhouses, for in his county there would not be found more than one workhouse in every seven parishes. In looking to the Report of the Poor Law Commissioners he found them stating that small parishes were well managed, but the large ones were badly managed, though the overseers of them were paid. He was convinced that the Bill never could be carried into operation.
 Mr. Robinson  said, that although attempts had been made in the Committee to alter the objectionable character of this Bill, yet he did not think such alterations had been made as to justify the House in passing it at a late period of the Session. He would ask what evidence there was that the people out of doors entertained opinions favourable to the Bill, as there had been no petitions presented in favour of it, while a great many had been laid on the Table against it, and the latter were
 920
 Mr. Slaney  contended, that no subject had ever been submitted to the Legislature which had been more attentively examined by the House and the country than the present. For the sake of the poor and humble classes of the community, and if the House was constituted of those who were truly the Representatives of the people, they must be desirous of bettering the condition of the labouring classes, they should at once pass either this or some other Bill equally efficient. If he could for a moment think, that this Act would prove in the least degree injurious to the poor he would oppose it to the utmost of his power; but he was satisfied that it would have the effect of enabling the industrious poor to better their situation, and would, at the same time, afford great relief to the landed interest. The present Government had been the first to grapple with this extremely troublesome and difficult question, while other Administrations had merely applied palliatives, which, instead of affording relief, had tended to increase the evil. He congratulated his noble friend (Lord Althorp) at having brought
 921
 Mr. Richards  had, when the Bill was originally introduced, recommended that the powers of the Commissioners should be curtailed or controlled. Much had been done in the Committee to satisfy him on this point, and he should rejoice extremely to see it pass into a law. He was glad, notwithstanding the attempts made by the public Press to excite a feeling against this House in consequence of the support given to this Bill, that there was such a determination on the part of the Government and hon. Gentlemen to carry the measure into effect. He trusted, notwithstanding the violent articles which had appeared in one leading newspaper, and especially in the paper of that morning, which were utterly disgraceful to that journal, that Government would continue to rely upon the good sense of the House and the country. He almost felt called upon by a sense of duty to call the publisher of  The Times 922
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  said, it had been asserted, that the present system had almost doubled the Poor-rates in the last twenty years; but such was not the fact. The amount now levied for the Poor-rates was only 300,000 l l l l 923
 Mr. Baring  thought, that Government deserved praise for endeavouring to apply a remedy to the evils and abuses of the Poor-law system; but he had great apprehensions as to the consequences to be anticipated from this measure. Unless great care was taken in the administration of it, especially in the country districts, he looked forward with dismay to the effects that might arise from it. The country was certainly indebted to the Government for endeavouring to apply a remedy in this case, and those who objected to the remedy were undoubtedly bound to bring forward some other. He did not think, that they should deal so abruptly with the labouring population of the country. No doubt, the final result of the measure would be to effect an improvement in the condition of the people. He was sure, that that was the object of the Bill, and that the measure would not be for a moment countenanced by the Members of that House if such were not its object. If it did not ultimately effect an improvement in the condition of the labouring classes in this country, the measure would be good for nothing. It was no answer to him to point out the evils and difficulties of the present system, or of the situation in which the labouring classes of this country were at present placed, unless an easy exit out of those difficulties by some defined measure was submitted. Even if it were in his power to carry an opposition to the present Bill, he should propose that opposition with extreme reluctance: but he must remind the House of one, in his judgment, of the most essential parts of the Bill; he alluded to that which refused parochial assistance to able-bodied labourers who might from circumstances be unable to gain any part of the means necessary for their own subsistence. After the month of June next, the labourer could not have any wages made up by the aid or assistance of the parish; and if hon. Members
 924
 Lord Althorp  expressed the satisfaction with which he had heard the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, because the hon. Gentleman seemed to concur with his Majesty's Government, that the present Bill was calculated to effect that for which it was intended, namely, the amelioration of the poorer classes of the community. His hon. friend had expressed his fears as to the abrupt mode in which that amelioration would be effected; and if the clause to which his hon. friend had referred was unaccompanied by other enactments, he should himself look to the
 925 926
 Mr. Langdale  said, that he had met with frequent instances where parents at the point of death were extremely anxious that their children should be brought up in the tenets of the religion to which they themselves belonged; and he should therefore propose, that where the children of persons dying in workhouses were directed by their parents to be educated according to a particular form of religion, their instructions should be attended to. He alluded more particularly to those whose religion he himself professed, and, in some parts of the kingdom, especially Lancashire, a great part of the inmates of workhouses were Roman Catholics. He acknowledged, that his object was to protect those individuals, who, it was well known, were very desirous that their children should be taught the form of religion which they themselves believed the true one. He moved an Amendment accordingly.
 Lord Althorp  observed, if parents did object to their children being educated according to the doctrines of the Established Church, they certainly ought to have the power of preventing it.
 Mr. Jervis  rose to repeat objections which he had formerly urged against the immunity given to the Commissioners by this clause. It had been agreed upon all hands, that these Commissioners were to be regarded merely as agents for carrying the Poor-laws' Amendment Bill into effect; and that they were not to be at all regarded in the light of Judges; it was, consequently, an anomaly in legislation to exempt them from the liability to actions; nor was it necessary for the due performance of their duties. The House, he would assume, was willing to give these Commissioners great authority, and to repose great confidence in them; but the greater the authority committed to them, the greater the confidence reposed in them, the less
 927
 Lord Althorp  observed, that the question really was, would they allow actions to be brought against the Commissioners sitting as a Board. There was no desire or intention to screen individual Commissioners from the consequences of any misconduct of which they might be guilty. He apprehended, that the practical meaning of treble costs was, in fact, that no action should be brought against the Commissioners under the circumstances to which he had alluded. He thought, that if actions were allowed against them, they would be so annoyed, so cramped thereby, as to be rendered altogether inefficient. Actions on the most frivolous and vexatious subjects would be brought against them, and he did not believe they could get on at all with the business, if they were exposed to the multiplied annoyances that would ensue.
 Mr. Pease  thought, it would be enough to give the Commissioners full costs, as between solicitor and client.
 The Attorney General  recommended his noble friend to substitute for 'treble costs' the words 'full costs' as between attorney and client.
 Lord Althorp  thought, that the hon. Member was mistaken in his view of the necessity for this clause. Overseers were liable under the existing law to indictment, if they refused relief in cases of extreme distress, and might be indicted for murder if death was the consequence; but he did not think that, in cases of prosecution, the costs should be paid out of the rates, and he therefore could not see the advantage of the Amendment proposed by the hon. Member, the effect of which might be to produce indictments where there was no ground for them. By the present law, overseers were bound to afford relief in emergency.
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  said, that the Bill, as it at present stood, left the pauper at the mercy of the vestry, without any control or appeal whatever. Much as he approved of the Bill, he was not prepared to go the length of leaving him without control or appeal. There were intermediate cases between ordinary ones, and where the pauper was dying for want of relief. He saw no objection to the introduction of the clause.
 The Attorney General  said, that the allowance of costs in such cases led to inconvenience; it often swelled the criminal calendar. Overseers were now liable to punishment, as proposed; but if the costs of a prosecution were to be paid out of the rates, it would tend to encourage unnecessary indictments.
 Mr. Poulett Scrope , in reply, observed, that by the existing law of Elizabeth, Magistrates, had the power of compelling overseers to grant relief; that power, however, would not exist under the present Bill.
 Mr. Baines  proposed a clause to restrain the Commissioners from the exercise of their powers in any parish or township maintaining its own poor, where the rates, on an average of the three last years, shall not have exceeded 2 s d s s
 Lord Althorp  said, that he could not think the clause an improvement. It would destroy one of the principal advantages of the measure, namely, uniformity of practice, to exempt some patches of the country from its operation. He could not conceive that good could arise from the adoption of the proposition. The hon. Member said, that many parishes were averse to the interference of the Commissioners. If that interference was likely to increase the amount of the rates, that might be a reason for the objection; but the effect of the Bill would not be to increase the amount. The object of this measure was, that the poor should be raised from their present condition; but, in the manufacturing and other places, however low might be the rates in many cases, the situation of the poor was not what it ought to be. If the House acted upon the principle of lowering the rates merely, it would make the Bill what they had been accused of wishing to make it, a plan to save the pockets of the ratepayers only.
 Mr. Tooke  proposed to add the following clause to the Bill:—"And whereas there are several districts, precincts, or places in England and Wales which, not having been rated to the relief of the poor of the respective parishes or townships in or near which they are situated, are through such usage alleged to be extra-parochial, and the occupiers of lands, tenements, and hereditaments and premises within the same, claim to be exempt from payment of the rates made for the relief of the poor of such parishes or townships, but support the poor within their own respective districts, precincts or places: and whereas it is expedient for the purpose of simplifying and equalizing the payment and collection of the rates for the relief of the poor, and their settlement and maintenance, that such districts, precincts, and places, should be rated with the parishes or townships in or near which they are situated; and that the poor within the same should be relieved and maintained in common with such parishes or townships;—be it therefore enacted, that all and every such districts, precincts, and places, whether having overseers or not (save and except any district, precinct, or place within the two Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, and any place declared by Act of Parliament to be extra-parochial), shall for the purpose of making and collecting such rates for the relief of the poor, and for their settlement, maintenance, and relief, from and after the time at which this Act is to take effect, be deemed and taken to be within and part and parcel of the parish or township in which they are respectively situated, or of the parish or township to which they are respectively nearest or adjoin for the greatest space; and if any such district, precinct, or place, shall be equally near, and adjoin two or more parishes or townships then, and in such case, the district, precinct, or place shall be deemed to be within the most populous of such parishes, according to the last census for the time being."
 Mr. Pollock , in rising to oppose this clause, said that he did not rise to perform an act of self-denial. This clause was calculated to bring a charge varying from ten to twenty per cent, on property that had hitherto been exempt from it. In Gray's-inn, for instance—a society with which he was not connected—the chambers were not the property of the society, but of individuals, who had purchased leases
 931 l l s s s s
 Mr. Littleton  hoped that the House would not look upon this clause as one merely affecting the Inns of Court. It affected the country generally. He thought that the hon. and learned Gentleman had not considered it fairly. He said, that these extra-parochial places ought to maintain their own poor. But the hon. Member said, that they ought to maintain the poor of the adjoining parishes. Now that went, as he thought, beyond the necessity of the case. He should be glad to support the proposition of the hon. member for Chester, which met, as he conceived, the evil of the case. This clause went far beyond the necessity of the case, and as such he should oppose it.
 Mr. Tooke  said, that he had no personal
 932
 Mr. Blackburne  said, it was a strange uniformity which the hon. Member wished to produce, when his own clause contained five exceptions to it.
 Lord Althorp  thought, that such a clause was quite unnecessary. He considered that a separate visitor in each separate county would not be wanted. If such a provision were necessary to assist the execution of the Bill, the mode of electing the officers proposed by this clause was not advisable. When the regulations of the Commissioners were published, it would be found, that no such violent changes as gentlemen expected would take place, nor would there be any difficulty in carrying the regulations into effect. The new arrangements would not require many persons to carry them into execution. The provision of the gallant Officer was unnecessary, and if it were necessary, it was by no means the best mode of effecting the object which he had at heart.
 Mr. Hodges  proposed a clause giving to the mayor and corporation of borough towns jurisdiction over the workhouses of such towns, in cases where the workhouse was in the parish, but not the corporate town. This clause, he said, was necessary to meet a set of cases, in which the parish being larger than the borough town, the borough Magistrates had no authority over the workhouse, because it was out of the borough whilst it was in the parish.
 Lord Althorp  said, that he could not consent to this clause at present, as he had not had sufficient time to consider its bearing.
 Mr. Cayley  proposed to leave out clause 60, and to insert the following clause:—"And be it further enacted, that from and
 933
 Lord Althorp  did not see any material difference between the clause in the Bill and that proposed by his hon. friend. He did not believe, that even under the clause proposed by his hon. friend any House under 10 l
 Sir Henry Willoughby  proposed the insertion of a clause to the effect:—'that the powers of the Poor-law Commissioners and the Asssistent Commissioners shall not be exercised in any parish or township maintaining its own poor, in which relief is confined to the aged, to the orphan, to the maimed, to the lame, to the blind, to the idiot, to the lunatic, and to those who suffer from sickness, accident, or infirmity.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the power of inspection, even in well administered parishes, would not in his opinion, be a hardship. He was sure that the measure would not be a law of pains and penalties, as some had described, but that it would effect general good for the country.
 Mr. Hodges  also supported the clause. He wished to know from the noble Lord with regard to the power of inspection, whether it would be the duty of the Commissioners to include in unions all the parishes in England and Wales. If such should be the case, the Bill would really be a Bill of pains and penalties.
 Lord Althorp  said, they would do no such thing. The power was merely given to the Commissioners to unite parishes as might to them seem expedient.
The clause was negatived.
 Mr. George F. Young  objected to the clause, on the ground that it would be impossible, from the nature of his duties on leaving port, for a captain to make out the required copy, in order to return it by the pilot. The hon. Member moved an Amendment to the effect, that all masters of vessels should have the option of delivering copies of their agreements with their crews either to the pilots on board, for the purpose of being transmitted to the Register-office, or to the consul or vice-consul at the first foreign port at which the ships touched.
 Sir James Graham  supported the clause, which he said, had been prepared with every view to the convenience of the shipowners and the masters of vessels. The hon. Member had failed to point out any inconvenience which would arise from the operation of the clause as it at present stood.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the clause had been met by objections put forward by the chambers of commerce both of Belfast and Dublin. Those objections were, that ships frequently left port with only a portion of their crews on board, but completed them at other places where men could be obtained at a cheaper rate. Under such circumstances, it would be impossible for the captain on leaving port to make the return required of him; and though the alternative remained of his lodging it at the first port at which he might touch with the consul or vice-consul, yet the clause contained no provision to exempt the captain from the penalty imposed in case of the neglect of those officers to make the return to this country prior to the arrival at home of the particular ship.
 Sir James Graham  said, that the great object of the clause was, to protect the sailors from the liability when they entered for an outward and homeward voyage, of being left ashore on foreign stations, where other hands could be procured at a cheaper rate to work the vessel home, while the British seaman was left to perish from disease and other causes attendant upon foreign climates. From this system much injury was done to the men, and to prevent it was the object of this clause.
 Mr. George F. Young  said, that so far from the sailors being so treated, it was well known, that many secreted themselves in foreign ports in order to get higher wages for the voyage home. Indeed, to such an extent did this at one time prevail, that an Act of Parliament was passed, the object of which was, to limit sailors working home from a foreign port to double wages.
 Admiral Fleming  concurred with the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) in condemning the present system, and which was well known by every individual who had visited the West Indies to prevail to a great extent. He should support the clause.
 Sir James Graham  said, that if time were allowed him, he could move for returns of documents which had been received from consuls abroad, which described scenes, especially in the Pacific, of a most heart-rending character, arising from the circumstance of sailors being left on shore and otherwise being most barbarously treated by the captains of vessels, and which documents would fully bear out his assertion.
 Mr. Vernon Smith  then moved, that a charge of 2 d. 936 d
 Lord Lowther  complained, that a greater charge was made at the Post-office at Charing-cross for sending a Newspaper abroad, than was made at the General Post-office in the city.
 Mr. Vernon Smith  admitted, that such was the case. The main object of his Resolution was, to enable foreign countries to send newspapers to England almost free of expense, provided English newspapers were admitted to those countries on equal terms. He had another Resolution to propose, by which this ground of complaint would be got rid of; namely, by giving compensation to the clerks, so as to get rid of the fees now allowed to them by the conveyance of newspapers. He did not know how any arrangement could be entered into on other terms than those he had proposed.
 Mr. Vernon Smith  then proposed a Resolution to the effect that it was the opinion of the Committee, that the Postmaster-General be empowered to send by post certain stamped papers free of expense; and also that he be allowed to make compensation to the clerks of the roads and others now entitled to fees. It was considered but just, that compensation should be given to the clerks for the privileges that were to be abolished.
 Lord Lowther  regretted, that the hon. Gentleman was not prepared to go a little further towards breaking down the old system. He wished to know why there was such an enormous charge made for the postage of foreign letters? In consequence of this charge, letters from abroad were sent by private individuals, and every Ambassador's bag was filled with the private letters of those who had the least influence. In most foreign countries, the postage was not one half of the charge for letters from England as it was in this country for letters from the continent.
 Mr. Vernon Smith  knew, that the rate of postage for foreign letters was high in this country, and agreed that it was a fit
 937
 Mr. O'Dwyer  expressed a hope, that although at that late hour, (it was past two o'clock) the House would not object to receive the Motion of which he had given notice. The subject was one of very considerable importance, which deeply affected the honour and character of this country. His Motion was for documents relating to the conduct of General Moreno, who, it was well known, had invited the brave General Torrijos, and several of his companions to Malaga, and had there become the instrument of their destruction, and, what more immediately concerned this country, the destruction of Mr. Boyd, an Englishman. Moreno was now in this country, having recently landed on our shores, and for the character of the country itself, and for the future security of the lives of British subjects, some steps ought to be immediately taken to obtain satisfaction for this violent outrage. It was well known, that at the time of this transaction the British authorities in Malaga had strongly remonstrated against the assassination of Mr. Boyd, though, unfortunately, without effect. It could be proved, he understood, that Torrijos and his companions had been not only invited, but strongly urged by Moreno to come to Malaga. He had been informed, that there were at this moment, documents within reach of the Government, which would fully show the nature of the invitation that had been sent. There was one letter in which, as he was instructed to state, would be found these words—"We burn to join your glorious constitutional cause." This letter was from Moreno, and professed to speak the sentiments of himself and the people of Malaga. This letter, he understood, was at this moment in possession of a person connected with the Government. It would be for the noble Lord (Lord Palmerston) to make inquiry into this subject, for Government was bound to see the honour of the country asserted, and to bring, if possible, the murderer of one of its subjects to justice. He would move "An address for a return of the names of all male persons accompanying Don Carlos, the Infant of Spain, to this country, whose arrival has been notified to the Foreign Department: copy of
 938
 Mr. O'Dwyer  had no objection to adopt the suggestion of the noble Lord, but he would beg to ask whether, since the arrival of Moreno in this country, any reference had been made to the Law Officers of the Crown as to whether any and what mode existed of bringing that man to punishment.
 Mr. Cuthbert Rippon  said, that there was a letter in the possession of an individual at this moment in this country, addressed by Moreno to General Torrijos, in which the words referred to by the hon. and learned Gentleman, "I burn to join your constitutional expedition," occurred. He was ready to put this letter into the hands of the noble Lord. Now, after this fact, could the noble Lord hesitate to go into an immediate inquiry for the purpose of ascertaining how far the country could receive satisfaction for the outrage committed on one of its subjects?
 Mr. Hutt  said, he had known the brave General Torrijos intimately, and he was aware of the cruel treachery by which he had been invited to Malaga, and there betrayed by the blood-thirsty Moreno. He knew that the General and his companions were sacrificed to the blood-thirsty ambition of that cruel tyrant, who had made their bodies the steps by which to ascend to power and favour under the Spanish government. If that man were now in this country, if he were in our power, he ought not to be suffered to depart until some
 941
 Viscount Palmerston : I have done so.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that he had directed such reference to be made for the satisfaction of the public feeling on this subject, but though he had adopted that course, he himself had very little doubt what the nature of the answer returned would be.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, the question was, whether Mr. Boyd was placed in such a situation as that he could be protected by the law of nations? Was an enterprise which had been previously undertaken against Spain, but which had been accelerated by the acts of others—he would not say how fairly—was not that, he would ask, such a circumstance as took the case of Mr. Boyd out of the protection of the law of nations? He could not think that that law could be construed to afford protection to an individual circumstanced as Mr. Boyd was.
 Viscount Palmerston  had no objection to the hon. Member's Motion, but he would suggest to him an alteration in the latter part of it, making it rather for the correspondence of this Government with our Minister at Madrid, and also with the authorities at Malaga, on the subject of the detention and execution of Mr. Boyd. These letters, when produced, would speak for themselves. On one point he must say, the hon. Gentleman was mistaken and misinformed, and that was in supposing that he, or that the Government, was in possession of any such letter as that to which he had alluded, or even that he had ever read any such letter. The circumstances of General Torrijos's entry into Spain were well known. In 1831 General Torrijos went from this country, accompanied by several of his countrymen, with the intention of landing in Spain for the purpose of forwarding their own particular political views. They first got to Gibraltar, and their presence and object there becoming known to the Spanish government, a representation was made by that government to this country, remonstrating against an English garrison being allowed to harbour persons menacing with a hostile attack a country in amity and alliance with us. This Government felt, that our garrison ought not to be used for such a purpose, and the Governor of Gibraltar, as he had authority to do, took steps to find out the parties in order to prevent their making a descent on Spain from that place. Unfortunately, he was not successful in his search; he said unfortunately, for if they had been found they would have been placed on board a British ship, and thus the fate which they afterwards met would have been averted. The parties went from Gibraltar to Malaga, in pursuance of an invitation from some persons there, and an intimation that they would be kindly received. This was his belief. The moment they arrived at Malaga they were arrested, and an account was transmitted by Moreno to Madrid stating the fact. In five days after that, an order came from the Spanish government directing that they should all be shot. A claim was made on the part of the British authorities in behalf of Mr. Boyd, as a British subject; that claim was not recognized, and the demands transmitted by the British authorities were of
 939
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the right hon. Gentleman recommended this Bill to the House after cool and calm consideration; but what time had he given to the House for cool and calm consideration. Was it fair, he would ask, to press going into Committee upon that alteration, which was different from anything that had hitherto been offered to the House. It was different in principle from the Bill that had been read a second time. The original Bill had been printed months ago; but this Bill was no more like what had been then printed than it was like the English Poor-law Bill. It had been altered over and over again, and since it was first printed eight or ten new clauses had been introduced into it, and now an alteration was proposed, which rendered it virtually a new Bill. He could form some conjecture as to the nature of the proposed alteration, but he was by no
 982
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the proposed charges were an alteration in the principles of the Bill, a solid and substantial alteration. There was no part of the empire for which Government would attempt to legislate in this way except Ireland. The Bill was one of vital importance to Ireland, and surely time ought to be afforded to understand it, particularly as it appeared that the Government itself after all its deliberations had not agreed upon its measures until that very day. It had not decided what measure it would adopt against the people of Ireland, nor what should be its details. At one time they came forward with a proposition under the pretence of serving the people, and at another they offered a bonus to the landholder, and endeavoured to screen themselves behind his prejudices, or what was still worse, his interests. He was never so astonished as he was at the plan proposed by the right hon. Gentleman. Let the House take up this Bill and endeavour to understand its principle, and see its tendency. He would ask the House if it was ready to declare war against the people of Ireland l 983 984 De te fabula narratur 985 l l l., l l l l 986 l l l l., 987 l., 988
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to make one remark in explanation. When he said, that
 989
 Mr. Stanley  had not before thought, that any one could have proposed a plan with regard to the Church of Ireland which could by possibility have brought the hon. and learned member for Dublin and himself to vote upon the same side. He must confess that he had great doubts whether, after the declaration made by his right hon. friend, it would not be better to await and have the Bill printed, for the purpose of allowing the House and the country to judge of the alterations which had been made in it. His right hon. friend admitted, that the measure was not the same as when first introduced. That was with him a reason for postponing the consideration of the measure. Though, therefore, under such circumstances, he should vote with the hon. and learned member for Dublin, yet still he felt great hesitation on the subject, because he knew the responsibility that would de-
 991 pro formâ, l "No, no!" 992 l., 993 994
 Mr. O'Connell  lamented, that there should be so much of legislation in gross ignorance of the state of the country in Ireland. There was no necessity for this measure, which would only tend to bring the police into continual collision with the peasantry. He hoped, that the right hon. Member would withdraw it.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that within the last six months, five hundred families were turned out to live or die by the ditches. The Magistracy were the cause of much of the calamities of the people.
 Mr. Ruthven  said, Magistrates were in the habit of issuing blank summonses to be filled up by their underlings at their
 1003
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, he rose to propose the omission of two offences enumerated in the clause,—larceny from the person, and larcenies after a previous conviction. He moved their erasure upon distinct and different grounds. If the Sessions were capable of trying any offence, it was that of larceny from the person, which, in the district comprised within the limits of the Bill, would, in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, be stealing a handkerchief from the pocket. Now, surely, the time of the Judges of the land might be better employed than in trying trivial cases of that description. His (Mr. Hughes Hughes') objections to the offence of larceny, after a previous conviction, being included in the Clause were these. A person brought before the proposed tribunal for that offence would, in a manner, be prejudged, being branded with a former conviction, but for which he would not be tryable in that Court but by the Sessions. Under one of the statutes known as Peel's Acts, the punishment on a second conviction was increased from seven to fourteen years transportation; but the fact of a former conviction was a separate issue to be tried by the Jury after the finding of Guilty of the offence charged in the indictment. The circumstance of its being a second offence did
 1004
 The Attorney General  agreed with the hon. Member, that larceny from the person was an offence, in the trial of which the superior Judges need not be employed, and he, therefore, consented to its erasure from the Clause. To the other proposal of the hon. Member he could not agree, because the second conviction of larceny was punishable with fourteen years' transportation, and because the Sessions would have power to try the case of a second offence sent to that Court by mistake, only that no mention must be made in the indictment, of the previous conviction, but it must be taken to be the prisoner's first offence.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, that after the explanation the Committee had just heard; and if the hon. and learned Attorney General thought it expedient, in the case he (Mr. Hughes Hughes) had supposed, to forego the provisions of Mr. Peel's Act, so far as regarded a second conviction for larceny, he could have no objection to abandon that part of his Motion, and confine himself to the erasure of larceny from the person.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, he rose to move pursuant to notice, for leave to bring up a Clause to provide, that all and singular the enactments, powers, and authorities, made and given in and by the Act 4th George 4, cap. 48, for enabling Courts to abstain from pronouncing sentence of death in certain capital felonies, should be deemed to extend, and should extend, to the proposed Court. As many hon. Members might perhaps remember, he
 1005
 The Attorney General  had great pleasure in seconding the proposition, and begged to compliment the hon. Member on his perseverance in its introduction. It was certainly high time, that the solemn mockery of the Judge putting on his black cap, and formally passing the awful sentence of death upon criminals which were not to be executed, should be done away with at the Old Bailey, as it already had been in every other Criminal Court in the country.
 Major Macnamara  said, that in his county (Clare) no such practice existed; and he would testify for the humanity of the landlords of that county.
 Colonel Perceval  took a very different view of the nature and tendency of the Bill to that entertained by the hon. and learned member for Dublin.
 Mr. Littleton  replied, that the aim of this Bill was, to prevent the very circumstance to which the hon. and learned Member had objected. Much blood had been shed in affrays between the police and the peasantry, in consequence of the former impounding the stray cattle of the cottagers, and the measures which this Bill contemplated would, he thought, do away with this unfortunate state of things.
 Mr. Littleton  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman's temper had so completely got the better of, and forestalled his reason, that the House, he was sure, would not be at all surprised to hear him state, that he could not understand the Bill. He trusted, nevertheless, that in his calmer moments the hon. and learned Gentleman would have the candour to admit, that the present measure included many of the provisions of his plan, or, in other words, that the plan which he (Mr. Littleton) had now submitted to the House was, in a great measure, the same as the plan of the hon. and learned Member. He trusted, that hon. Members would concur with him, when he said that it was extremely desirable, that, at this late period of the Session, they should be allowed to go into Committee at once. With regard to what had been said by the hon. and learned Gentleman, in the way of complaint that the Bill had not been printed, he could assure the House, that the fault did not rest with him (Mr. Littleton). He was desirous, that the Bill should have been printed a fortnight ago, and intended that it should be so; but had been induced to change his opinion in consequence of a suggestion to that effect made by the hon. and learned member for the University of Dublin. He was, therefore, not to blame for the Bill not being printed. The hon. and learned Gentleman next proceeded to complain that the Irish Members had not been consulted about this Bill when it was in the course of preparation. The complaint of the hon. and learned Gentleman was altogether unfounded: he could not have preferred one more groundless. Never was there any Bill respecting Ireland in the framing of which the Members for that country were so much consulted. For more than a fortnight almost the whole of his time had been occupied in corresponding with the Irish Members on the subject of this Bill; and the house of his noble friend (Lord Althorp) had always been open to the Irish Members, whenever they wished to communicate with him on the subject. He would, therefore, repeat, that there never was an
 990 Mr. Shaw:
 Mr. Littleton  thought the proposal for delay unnecessary, for the alterations would not have to be discussed until the Committee should have arrived at the 152nd clause.
 Mr. Littleton  answered, that the rent-charge might be incurred voluntarily before November 1836: the land-tax would continue for five years afterwards, and those who had not then incurred the rent-charge voluntarily would then be compulsorily subject to it.
 Mr. Littleton  (on moving the Order of the Day for the House to resolve itself into a Committee on the Irish Tithes Bill,) wished first to state the nature of another considerable alteration, which, after deliberation, Ministers had deemed it expedient to recommend for adoption. For the last six months, they had been daily more impressed with the necessity of adopting, in the present Session, some measure to prevent the total annihilation in Ireland of tithe property; nevertheless, they had never ceased to feel the greatest solicitude to accomplish their wishes in a manner the least injurious and oppressive. He particularly alluded to the interest of the landlords, through whose instrumentality Ministers could alone hope to effect any considerable change. The House was aware, that there existed on the part of Irish landlords an objection to being compulsorily made liable to a rent charge,
 979 980 l l l l., l., l l l., l., l l l., l 981
 Mr. Littleton  said, that in Ireland, according to the existing law, cattle found straying on the high roads were to be impounded. When the police, in discharge of their bounden duty, interfered to remove the cattle to the pound, the people resisted, and constant scenes of bloodshed
 1002
 Mr. Littleton  said, as the cattle should of necessity be pounded at present, there was no other way of getting over that evil than by adopting the present Bill.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that it was extremely difficult to follow the right hon. Gentleman through the proposed changes of the Bill; he wished at present only to put to him one question:—Was it intended to make the rent-charge in any case compulsory on the landlord?
 Mr. Shaw  had no objection to any course which might be for the convenience of the House, provided it did not involve a sacrifice of principle. He would not oppose the formal introduction of the new matter stated that evening by the right hon. Gentleman in order to its full discussion, but he never could agree to the omission  pro forma, 999 l 1000
 Mr. Grote  hoped the noble Lord would persist in his motion.
 Mr. More O'Ferrall  was not altogether surprised at the course taken by the right hon. Gentleman, the late Secretary for the Colonies, but he was at the course taken by the hon. and learned Gentleman, the member for Dublin; he had never expected to see them join in anything, but above all in opposing an Irish Tithe Bill. Lest misconception should exist in any quarter, he thought it right that Irish Members particularly, should understand the position in which they stood with regard to the question before them. The law under which tithes in Ireland would be collected in November next, was the 2nd and 3rd of William 4th, which had been introduced by the late Secretary for the Colonies in 1832, the object of which was, to place every parish in Ireland under composition. Under that Act a compulsory composition took place throughout Ireland last year, which had the effect of raising the value of tithes to a higher amount than under the old law. When the present Bill was first brought forward by the Chief Secretary for Ireland he (Mr. O'Ferrall) had joined in opposing it, because it provided that the redemption money should be invested in land, which would have conferred great political power upon the Protestant clergy. That Bill was now entirely altered. In the first place the
 997 l 998
 Mr. Potter  complained of the speed with which the present measure was urged forward. It was only on Tuesday, that the amended Bill was put into their hands, and they had not had time to ascertain the sentiments of their constituents on the subject.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  had made several attempts in the course of the present Session, to bring forward motions of which he had given notice, but had always been interrupted by some stop-gap Bill or other, like the present. As it was, he had a motion on the list for to-morrow; and, therefore, if the noble Lord persisted in his motion, he would do all in his power, by moving the adjournment of the House, to frustrate his intentions.
 Mr. O'Reilly  said, that it was the severe conduct of those eulogised landlords which notoriously drove the peasantry of that county into the late insurrection.
 Mr. O'Reilly  said, that the police should be punished if they interfered wrongfully, and a provision to that effect should be introduced. He knew the pig-stye and cow-house to have been maliciously opened at night, in order that the animals might get out and be then impounded. Not only that, but the parties were kept for a long time without remedy or trial.
 Mr. O'Reilly  did not like legislation which operated exclusively against the poor. He knew a poor widow, the support of whose large family was a single cow that was allowed to graze on the road side, watched by an infant of five years old. To impound that cow, would be considered such wanton inhumanity that no policeman ever attempted it, and if he did, no Magistrate would sanction it. But if the present law passed, it would be imperative on the Magistrates to impose a fine which the widow could not, in all human probability pay. Gentlemen who had large demesnes, and contrived to improve them at the public expense, could afford to keep their cows off the road. He did not think the police should have the power of summoning poor persons for allowing a cow to graze on the road side, and keeping it locked up till the following day.
 Mr. O'Reilly  must repeat the accusations of the hon. and learned member for Dublin against the Magistracy of Ireland, who used to levy fines for the sake of their favourites.
 Mr. O'Reilly  said, that nothing was more likely to provoke the peasantry, and bring the Government of the country into odium than this species of petty legislation. Formerly a Magistrate, whose importance was offended by seeing a pig upon the road, might have had the pig taken to the pound, and thus the owner, at least, might be found out. But now a policeman might act in a much more summary manner. He put it to every Magistrate, who had ever attended Petty Sessions in Ireland, whether it was not better to give up these petty prosecutions? The unfortunate peasant could not live, if this system of legislation were pursued against him, and if every policeman and informer were allowed to harass the population in this manner, and by merely saying, "I saw such a one's pig, or such a one's cow, on the road," get the poor owner fined.
 Sir Robert Bateson  said, as the hon. member for Dublin volunteered such sweeping accusations against the Magistrates of Ireland, he called on him and defied him to name the parties. He would contradict the hon. and learned Member in the strongest terms the English language would admit.
 Lord Althorp  rose to move, according to notice, that the Order of the Day for the third reading of the Poor laws' Amendment Bill have precedence of Notices on Tuesday. He believed, that this application was not an unusual one in Parliamentary practice, and he hoped, therefore, that hon. Members who had notices for tomorrow, would give way on the present occasion.
 Lord Althorp  said, that, notwithstanding his right hon. friend had declared it to be his intention to vote with the hon. member for Dublin, he very distinctly understood the principles upon which he so voted to be widely different from those upon which the hon. Member's Amendment was based. The Amendment was framed for the purpose of obtaining the defeat of the Bill; his right hon. friend's opposition was offered with a view to obtain the postponement of the Bill till the new clauses were
 995 1 996
 Lord Clements  had heard with surprise and regret, many of the observations of the hon. and learned Gentleman. There were others of his statements from which he dissented. He denied, that there had been, as alleged by the hon. and learned Gentleman, more blood shed in Ireland for the last few years than at any former period of Irish history. The hon. and learned Gentleman had forgotten the insurrection and bloodshed of 1798. He regretted the highly-coloured statements of the hon. and learned Member on other points, to which he would not more particularly allude. He thought, that though there were points in the measure which were not sufficiently understood, that Government nevertheless deserved great credit for it. The subject of tithes was one which was surrounded with difficulties, and, therefore, the measure now before the House ought, he conceived, to be allowed to go into Committee.
 Mr. Wolryche Whitmore  had not intended to take any part in the discussion at the present stage of the Bill, as it had already been so fully discussed on other occasions; but after what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman against the Bill, he felt called upon to trouble the House with a few remarks. The hon. member for Kent had admitted, that great evils existed in the administration of the Poor-laws in the south of England; but the hon. Member seemed to think, that it would be extremely difficult, if not impossible, to have a system free from such defects. If the hon. Member would visit the part of the country where he resided occasionally, the hon. Member would find a system free from those defects which
 1038 1039
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that as this Bill did not relate to that part of the British empire with which he was more immediately connected, he should not have said one word upon this motion, except that he wished to state why he voted against the third reading of this Bill. He did so because it did away with personal feelings and connexions, because it erected an unconstitutional tribunal, and because it gave an accumulation of votes to the wealthy over the poorer classes. Notwithstanding, he felt that the evils of the present system were great, this most unconstitutional measure would, in his opinion, increase the evils.
 Mr. Secretary Rice  did not know of any mode in which he could more strongly express his assent to the propositions and principles laid down by his hon. friend, than by seconding the Motion which he had made. He was prepared to furnish the hon. Gentleman with all the information which he possessed on the subject. He held in his hand a number of valuable documents, which he would have great pleasure in laying before the House; and if his hon. friend should think proper next Session to bring forward a Motion for a Committee of inquiry, he would most willingly support it. But while he thus expressed his cordial approval of the principles which the hon. Gentleman had advanced on the subject, he must differ from him as to the amount of the evils to which he had referred. There must be evils to a certain extent, consequent on the introduction of civilization into a savage country, and these evils, though he could not hope that they could be done away with altogether, he would use every exertion to reduce.
 Mr. Tower , while he admitted that the existing state of the Poor-laws called for amendment, expressed his regret that he
 1061
 Mr. Robinson  said, that in opposing the third reading of the Bill, he did no more than his duty. Even if they were to pass it, he was satisfied it would fail in its operation. The arguments of the hon. member for Wolverhampton and the other Gentlemen by whom the Government were supported on this occasion, were founded upon two fallacies. They in the first place assumed, that there was no alternative left but the adoption of this Bill, or leaving the Poor-laws with all their imperfections on their head. Now, this he begged leave to deny. In no one debate which had taken place on the subject, had a single word been said, which could be construed into a defence of the abuses of the system. On the contrary, it was on
 1042 1043 1044
 Mr. George F. Young  said, an endeavour was made by supporters of the Bill to represent its opponents as favourable to the abuses of the present system of Poor-laws. That was unworthy and unjustifiable. Though he opposed the present Bill, yet he would gladly correct the abuses of the Poor-laws. The present measure went far beyond the necessities of the case, and no measure should receive the sanction of that House that was not based on the exigences of the times and the circumstances of the country. The friends of the Bill failed to prove any necessity for giving the Commissioners such vast and unconstitutional power, enabling them to interfere at their own mere discretion in parochial affairs; and of compelling unions of parishes, however ill assorted those unions might be, or unwilling the parishioners might be, to form a union. It was said by the advocates of the Irish Coercion Bill, and that Bill was the only parallel to be found in the history of modern legislation to the present Bill, that the powers conferred by that Bill were to be exercised only according to the necessities of the case; and only exercised within the disturbed districts. But the Commissioners under the present Bill were exonerated from any such salutary restrictions, and they might interfere as they pleased with every parish in the kingdom.
 1054
 Mr. Goring  said, with reference to the riots in Sussex to which the hon. Member
 1053 Cobbett
 Mr. Benett  said, that his hon. friend who had just sat down, had declared, that there was more comfort amongst the la-
 1040 l s l s d s d l s d l s d 1041
 Mr. Bulteel  said, that thinking the measure would be a very great improvement in the law, he was anxious to give it his support, notwithstanding a petition had been presented against it, from that part of the county of Devon which he had the honour to represent.
 Mr. Leech  said it was impossible, in reflecting on the nature of this Bill, not to feel that it must render the breach be-
 1060 l l
 Mr. Pease  was happy to hear the speeches of both the hon. Gentlemen. It afforded him particular pleasure, and he was sure it would do the same to the
 1063
 Mr. Fryer  said, the Bill was intended to overturn the whole system of Poor-laws, and yet the noble Lord had said, that it was the boon which he had in store for the landlords. He refused them the repeal of the Malt-tax, and told them to wait for his Poor-law Bill, which was to give them so much relief. Well, the Poor-law Bill was brought forward, and see what a measure of relief to the agricultural interest! There was no possibility of reducing the poor-rates, without reducing the poor man's allowance. And was that a mode of relief to which that House would consent? Should not the noble Lord have inquired why it was, that the poor man could not get employment? How was it that the farmer was able to employ them before? Was it not because their contracts were made in paper and paid in gold? But the promoters of this Bill would be disappointed. It would be opposed through the country. When Ministers would have gotten that Bill, they would find they had caught the Bottle Imp; they had compassed their own destruction. Unions would spring up through the country, and they would be justified. It was to no purpose, however, speaking against the Bill, for the House were determined to carry it. But he could tell them that their workhouses
 1055
 Mr. Slaney  said, that the hon. Member who opposed the Bill, argued as if no case had been made out against the present administration of the Poor-laws, and as if this Bill were a wanton experiment upon the country. Now he would ask, if a case had not been made out to justify this Bill? Had there not been owing to the situation in which the poorer classes were placed, a rural insurrection which rendered insecure the whole property of the country? He thought, however, that the operation of this Bill should be confined to particular counties, where the Poor-laws had been badly administered, and the interests of the labouring classes neglected. He deplored that particular instances should be so often treated by hon. Gentlemen as cases of general occurrence. His hon. friend, the member for Wiltshire (Mr. Benett), had told the House, in reply to the assertion of the hon. Gentleman near, him (Mr. Wolryche Whitmore), that wages in Wiltshire amounted to 46 l l s s 1045 s 1046
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  in rising to move for an inquiry into the state and condition of the aboriginal tribes of countries in, and adjacent to, colonies under the dominion of Great Britain, said, that he would not at that late hour trouble the House by going into any details on the subject of his Motion. He would content himself by stating, that in every place where we had established a colony, the native inhabitants, instead of being benefited, were injured by our presence among them. In every British Colony, without exception, the aboriginal inhabitants had greatly decreased, and still continued rapidly to dwindle away. This was the case in Australia and Africa and in North America, and as had been remarked by a Mr. Hamilton, British brandy and gunpowder had done their work in thinning the natives. The hon. Member quoted se-
 1062
 Mr. Hodges  rose to oppose the third reading of the Bill, and to move as an Amendment, that it be read a third time that day six months. The thinness of the House, of which he must complain, for there ought to have been a greater number of Members present at that important stage of the measure, he took to be a proof, that something like a compact had been entered into relative to the passing of this Bill. The promoters and supporters of the Bill had said, that it was intended for the benefit of the country, and that it would be a great boon to the agriculturists. He denied that it would be a benefit. There was no one that suffered more severely from the operation of the present Poor-law system than he did, and consequently there ought to be no one more willing to get rid of it and to support the present Bill if that were calculated to effect its pretended object. But he could not support it, since no argument that he yet had heard had persuaded him, that the agricultural interests would be in the smallest degree benefitted
 1028 1029 1030 1031
 Mr. Cobbett  said, his chief purpose in rising was, to show the real objects of this Bill, and the consequences it was likely to produce, particularly on the poor population. Before, entering on these, however, he would say a few words in answer to one or two hon. Members, and more especially to the hon. member for Wolverhampton, relative to surplus labour. The plan of that hon. Member was, to send all
 1047 1048 "Oh! oh!" 1049 l 1050 1051 Blackstone's Commentaries 1052
 Sir Charles Burrell  could not agree with the noble Lord the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that there was anything in this Bill which went hand in hand with the 43rd of Elizabeth.
 Sir Henry Willoughby  seconded the
 1032 priori; 1033 1034 l minimum 1035 minimum 1036 1037
 Lord Althorp  wished to make a few remarks on the different statements made by hon. Gentlemen with reference to this measure. He was called upon in the first instance to state the grounds upon which he believed that this Bill would operate for the improvement of the condition of the labouring classes. Now, he thought, that no man who considered what were and had been the bad consequences of the allowance-system in the administration of the Poor-law, could come to any other conclusion than that the effect of that system was no other than to reduce the wages of labour to the lowest point at which (under the allowance-system) the Magistrates thought a family could possibly be supported; and that the adoption of this principle had been, and must necessarily be, to degrade the labourer in every part of the country where the practice prevailed. The object of the Bill was to put an end to the allowance-system. He knew, that his hon. friend who had moved the Amendment, said, that many persons thought the measure could not be carried into effect without a collision with the people; but he would have been sorry to support any measure which, in his opinion, could lead to such consequences. He did not, however, see any reason to expect such a result. There might undoubtedly be some danger from effecting sudden changes, without keeping up the
 1056 1057 1058 1059 s s
 Lord Eastnor  said, that if this Bill were a hard and grinding measure on the poor, he would be the last man to assent to it. As assent to any such measure would be unworthy the character of the English gentleman. But he believed that the Bill did not deserve such a character. He would not, however, have risen but to make one remark, which appeared to him to be called for by what had just occurred. He could not deprecate in language too strong, the conduct of any individual who should endeavour to make the poor of England discontented with their situation, or quote Scripture to justify any acts of violence which discontentment might drive them to commit. Taken by itself, the measure might, perhaps, be in part objectionable; but taking into consideration the extent of the necessity, he was of opinion, that it was calculated to do much good, and he should, therefore, give it his support.
 The Attorney General  said, that a Registration of Births of Dissenters was necessary even to Churchmen and to all persons who had or who might be left property. Without a proper and legal registry of births, marriages, and deaths it would be in many cases, and in cases where members of the establishment, and of every sect might be concerned, very difficult to decide in a Court of Law to whom property belonged. In the course of his practice he had seen in Courts of Law forgeries and many other expedients resorted to to obtain property, all of which would have been prevented if there had existed a full registry of births, marriages, and deaths.
 Lord Sandon  objected to that part of the proposed measure which enjoined a penalty even on the poor man unless it was found that he registered within a certain period. Besides this pecuniary punishment, he considered it harsh that a family should be disturbed at a time when death had brought them under affliction, and that they should be put to the cruel inconvenience that would result from this Bill.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the Bill was brought in because the present mode of registration was extremely defective. The principle of it would be to cause the collectors of taxes to receive the registers, which were to be supervised by the surveyors of taxes, and transmitted by them to a general Registry-office. It seemed to him, that this mode of registration might answer. He saw no reason whatever why the machinery of the Bill should not work well, and he considered, that this was the best mode which had been yet suggested for the purpose of the registration of births.
 Colonel Davies  agreed in the importance of the Bill, but did not object to proceeding with the discussion of it at that time. He should have preferred it if the duty of keeping the parish register had been thrown on the clergyman or the parish clerk than on the tax-gatherer. He thought, that by this means the register would be taken greater care of, as it would be locked up with the other documents belonging to the parish.
 Mr. Baines  thought, that there would be many objections to such an arrangement as was proposed by his hon. friend (Colonel Davies). One of the chief objections to the arrangement proposed by
 1075
 Dr. Lushington  had not expected that the Bill would have been proceeded with during the present Session. He agreed with the Attorney-General as to the absolute necessity of some general registry of births and marriages. He could state, from his own experience, that the present system was productive of the greatest inconvenience, and he was, therefore, willing to lend his assistance to any measure which would remedy the defects of it, so that there should be a complete register of births, marriages, and deaths. At the same time, he was bound to state, that it appeared to him that the question was replete with difficulties, and it required the greatest deliberation on the part of the House, both as to its principle and details, before the House could deal with it. He doubted whether the present measure would attain the ends in view. If, however, his Majesty's Ministers and the House thought there was time in the present Session to frame the Bill in such a way as to overcome all the difficulties which might arise, he would concur, and would render every assistance for the purpose of carrying it into effect; but it would be most objectionable to attempt to carry any measure which was not satisfactory. He thought it most desirable that they should have a registry to refer to in cases of difficulty; but the present Bill admitted the registry as evidence in cases in which he believed that it would not be altogether prudent. He was afraid, also, that the machinery contemplated by the Bill would be too expensive, and doubted whether the consequence would not be the keeping a number of registers, and thus diminishing the security. He would not oppose proceeding with the Bill, but would wait till it came out of Committee, when he should be able to judge whether the measure was sufficiently improved to be carried into effect. Though the advantages of a registry were very great, he never would agree to a measure for the purpose, unless it could be easily carried into effect, and at the same time afford security.
 Sir John Wrottesley  was most anxious that the measure should be carried into effect. He thought that the tax-gatherer was the best person who could be selected in each parish to keep the registry, as he
 1076
 Dr. Lushington  said, he wished to ask the hon. and learned promoter of the Bill, how it was possible to reconcile clause 11 with the clause now under consideration? There was nothing in this Bill which could enable the registrar to ascertain the fact of either birth or death with positive accuracy. As the clauses stood, the foundation of the entry in the registry would be no better than hearsay evidence, and as such evidence could not be received in a Court of Law, it followed that a registry so conducted would be of no possible advantage. He had not been aware that it was intended to press this measure through during the present Session, or he should have examined its provisions with greater care; but the House ought not to agree to this clause as it stood. He was told that a clause was to be introduced to correct the defect to which he had alluded, and all he could say was, that in the framing of any such clause great care should be taken to provide that the entry in the registry should only be made on the information of a party who had means of ascertaining the fact, stated positively and beyond all doubt.
 Lord John Russell  said, that he felt the full force of his hon. and learned friend's observation. The defect which he pointed out was one that ought to be remedied, and therefore he hoped that his hon. and learned friend would assist in framing such a clause as would meet the difficulty to which he adverted.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that in the case of births it would be extremely difficult, as they all knew, to obtain such information as could be relied on; and the same observation would apply to the case of deaths, though not perhaps with equal force. As far as related to the members of the Church of England, he was inclined to believe that the existing system of registration would be preferred to that now proposed. The present system of registration kept up the spiritual connection which ought to subsist between the Mi-
 1077
 Mr. Brougham  said, that the Bill was intended not only for the relief of Dissenters, but of the whole community. When he introduced it, he stated that it was not meant to interfere with the registries kept in churches, or the fees consequent upon those registries payable to the clergy. This was apparent in the first clause. There was no intention whatever to disturb the existing law relating to the registration of baptisms and burials: on the contrary, the Act of the 52nd of Geo. 3rd, under which such registries were kept, would remain in operation. At present there was no record of births and deaths, and the great object of this Bill was, to supply that defect, which was severely felt in cases of title and other cases involving property. He thought that such a record would be a great benefit to the community at large, and therefore he hoped the Committee would agree to the clause.
 Sir Robert Peel —Then it would seem that the statute of the 52nd of Geo. 3rd was to continue in operation, notwithstanding this Bill passed into a law. This fact in itself created an almost insurmountable difficulty. By the 52nd of Geo. 3rd, the clergy of the Church of England were bound to provide books in which the registries were to be kept, and that being the case, where was the necessity of this double expense? But there was something, he must say, very anomalous in having two sets of registries. The registry of baptisms and burials was to be kept by one party, while that of births and deaths was to be kept by another, but would not such a system lead to endless complexity? The person who made a search would have to consult two distinct authorities, and if those authorities happened to disagree, or did not tally exactly with each other, what would be the consequence? In such a case, and it was one likely enough to happen, where would be the advantage of either registry? Such a mode of registration would, to say the least of it, be a most cumbrous proceeding, and therefore, however willing he was to admit, that there ought to be a record of births and deaths as well as of baptisms and burials, he could not give his assent to that which, even if adopted, could lead to no beneficial result.
 Mr. Baring  observed, that the whole merit of a registry of births would depend upon the fact of the child being named in the entry; for without the name the entry would be unintelligible. What information, for instance, would an entry furnish which stated that the child of Henry Thompson and Mary Ann, his wife, was born on such a day? The registry of birth, and the baptism of the child must, to be worth anything, be contemporaneous acts, and parents must have their children baptized almost as soon as born.
 Mr. Pease  said, that although he belonged to a body who would not give up the mode of registration which they had adopted for any other, he still thought that a correct record of births and deaths was desirable. The 17th clause would remove the difficulty which had been raised with respect to the name of the child.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that a double registry was calculated only to embarrass the investigations of titles. Evidence of birth derived from one source and of bap-
 1079
 Lord John Russell  said, the registry, as at present made, only noted baptisms and burials, not for civil purposes. For these purposes it was absolutely necessary that there should be a registry of births and deaths. This registry would be best effected by using the machinery of the Tax-office, and the expense incurred by using this machinery, would not be above 60,000 l l
 The Attorney General  certainly wished to see one general measure of registration established. The one proposed he did not look upon as perfect; but it could not be denied, that it was a great improvement on the existing practice. It was a measure which would, so far from injuring, be of great service to the members of the Establishment; for as their registries at pres nt stood, baptisms and burials were of no avail in courts, as Judges could not receive such registries in evidence. The expense which it would entail on members of the Established Church ought not to be urged, when it was remembered that Dissenters were frequently taxed for purposes purely connected with the Establishment.
 Dr. Lushington  thought it would be wrong to continue the old mode of registry concurrently with the new one. It would only involve double expense, and the old system gave not what was desired—a registry of births and deaths, but of christenings and burials.
 The Attorney General  said, that if, on the faith of an untried experiment, they were at once to abolish parochial registration, they would create the greatest alarm throughout the country. If his hon. and learned friend had read the evidence, he would have found, that there were many persons who seriously believed it would endanger the Church. A large number of persons were interested in it, for they derived large emoluments from it. As a practical man, he wished to ascertain that the new system would work well before he abolished the old one. Old London bridge was not pulled down till
 1080
 Mr. Pollock  knew, that the present system, imperfect as it was, had conferred many benefits on the country, and he thought it desirable to have more than one means of obtaining correct evidence, especially as reasonable doubts might be entertained in many cases whether the provisions of this Act would be strictly followed. It would be hard to refuse to the professors of the Church of England the privilege they now enjoyed, if they thought proper to desire its continuance. He hoped that in what his hon. and learned friend had said, he did not mean to attribute interested motives to those persons to whom he had alluded.
 Mr. Goulburn  considered the penalty too large—a smaller sum would answer every purpose.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought that they lived in rather changeable times, and ought to allow a little variety in one matter as well as in another. For instance, if a man registered his child as John Russell, and afterwards, altering his mind, baptized it as Robert Peel, it was only following an example which was frequently set him, and why should he have to pay 20 s
 Colonel Torrens  was sure that the exportation of coals would be injurious to our manufactures.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  thought there need be no apprehensions entertained with respect to the export of coals; Russia, Prussia, Holland, France, and other parts of the Continent, were now in possession of coals, and we no longer possessed a monopoly.
 Mr. Hume  seconded the proposition, but it was withdrawn; and the Bill went through a Committee.
 Sir George Murray  said, that before the Bill went into Committee, he was desirous to make a few observations. He was as anxious as any man to remove as much as possible every grievance which pressed upon any class of his Majesty's subjects on the ground of religious distinctions. His whole conduct through life had been marked with this principle—he had voted for the abolition of the Corporation and Test Acts, and had given his assent to the removal of the disqualifications affecting the Roman Catholic subjects of the realm. After his accession to the office of Secretary for the colonies, he had extended the principle of non-exclusion to the Universities of York, in Upper Canada, and of Montreal, admitting thereto every religious sect without any inquiry whatever. With these proofs of his opinions, it could not be denied, that he was a friend to religious liberty. He thought, that the hon. member for South Lancashire, who had brought forward the present measure, had failed to show the practical application of the principle to the object which he had in view; and, without meaning any disrespect to the hon. Member, he must say, that the Bill appeared to him to be unintelligible and contradictory. Such a measure was much too extensive an undertaking for any individual member of the Legislature, and he should rather have wished that his Majesty's Government would have themselves taken up this important subject, and based a measure for the adoption of the House upon the terms of the petitions which had been presented to the other House of Parliament by the Prime Minister, and to this House by a right hon. Gentleman, now Secretary for the Colonies, from certain Members of the University of Cambridge, in favour of the admission of Dissenters into that and the other University. He thought, that the difficulty in the matter arose from the necessity for religious instruction in the University, which course of instruction must necessarily be confined to the established religion of the country. From this circumstance arose the practical difficulty of applying in this instance those liberal principles which he had ever entertained, and was anxious to adopt. As a member of the Church of Scotland, he stood himself in the situation of a Dissenter in this country, and therefore it could not be doubted, that he was desirous that the
 1090
 The Lord Advocate  said: "I have listened with feelings of pain and regret to the speech of the right hon. member for Perthshire. He has said, that he has considered himself as a Dissenter, as all Presbyterians of the Scotch Church must do in England, although they are members of the Established Church in Scotland, and yet that he voted against the Bill for the admission of Dissenters into the English Universities, for reasons which, although they have been detailed at very considerable length, no person could have expected to hear come from an hon. Member who avows himself to be a Dissenter, and a person most anxious to remove all religious distinctions. Every observation which the hon. Member has made, justifies those Members from Scotland who voted for the second reading of this Bill; while even, if agreed to in their full extent, they make a vote given by a Scotch Presbyterian Member against the second reading of the Bill more difficult to explain. By voting for the second reading, the House does no more than approve of the principles of a Bill. Has the right hon. Member stated, that he disapproves of the principles of the Bill in any respect, or that he did not understand it? All his observations tend to the strongest approbation of the principles of the Bill. He says, he approved of the Cambridge petition. It is not surprising, that those Members who opposed so strongly and so eloquently all the sentiments contained in the Cambridge petition, should vote against the second reading of the Bill; for the principles of this Bill differ in no respect from that petition. The details of the Bill may differ in some respects. That was the strongest reason for voting for the second reading, and for allowing the Bill to go into Committee. All the supporters of the Cambridge petition will then have an opportunity of proposing such alterations as will make the provisions of the Bill agree with their views of that petition. But the House has been told, that a Bill brought in by his Majesty's Ministers, founded on the principles of the Cambridge petition, would have received the support of the right hon. member for Perthshire. This is carrying regard for his Majesty's Ministers very far indeed. This Bill was introduced in the month of April by my hon. friend, the member for South Lancashire. It could not be brought forward by any Member more entitled to the re-
 1092
 The Speaker  said, that before the Amendments which had just been proposed by the hon. member for South Lancashire were put to the Committee, he was sure the Committee (feeling that he as yet had had no opportunity afforded him for expressing the sentiments he entertained with respect to this Bill, and being also aware, that this would be his only opportunity) would favour him, even at the late hour which had now arrived, with its attention on the present occasion. The observations which he wished to make had no reference to the Amendments proposed by the hon. Member, and upon them he would give the Committee no trouble. His objections, he fairly confessed, were not to the Amendments merely, but to the principle of the Bill. That principle could not be carried into effect without leaving
 1093
 Mr. Ruthven  begged to move as an Amendment, that the House do adjourn.
 Mr. Philip Howard  should support the Motion of the hon. member for Shaftesbury (Mr. Poulter) and trusted
 1094
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  asked what rate of duty was to be laid on coals carried in foreign ships?
 Mr. P. Thomson  said, the present rate of duty was 6 s d s s d., s s
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said it was merely his intention to propose certain resolutions, embracing the alterations in the
 1081 1082 1083 l d s d s 1084 l l., l 1085 l s s d s d s d l., l
 Mr. Grote  regretted, that the duty on barilla was not to be removed; it would soon be no longer imported into this country. The present imports of that article did not amount to half what they were three years ago.
 Mr. Robinson  approved generally of the alterations proposed by the right hon. Gentleman, observing, that the revenue arising from currants would not, after the present year, be so unproductive as might be supposed from the reduction that had been announced. There was one alteration, the reason of which he confessed he could not see—namely, the reduction on, fruit, the produce of Spain and Portugal,
 1087 l
 Mr. George Frederick Young,  in reference to the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman opposite on the subject of permitting inland towns to bond goods, could not help saying, that that was such a change of magnitude and importance that it ought not to be brought forward at that late period of the Session.
 Mr. Warburton  also approved of the greater part of the changes which the Government proposed to make. The article of coals, however, was one of the exceptions to his assent. He was borne out by the authority of Mr. Ricardo, in saying, that the removal of an export duty from such an article as coals was most impolitic. In all the manufactures in which that article was used, the effect of the removal would be to put our foreign rivals upon the same footing as ourselves. He regretted to find himself under the necessity of saying, that the change made appeared to have proceeded rather from the influence of some members for northern places, than from any strong conviction that the alteration was based upon a sound principle.
 Mr. Brotherton  said, the proposed reduction of duties would be beneficial to the manufacturing interest, and give great satisfaction to the country. The allowing of bonded warehouses in inland towns would be a great advantage to Manchester and other places. He felt some doubt as to the policy of allowing the exportation of coals.
 Lord Althorp  said, the fact was, the producers of coal were in distress and wanted relief. He concurred in the principle laid down by Mr. Ricardo, but the question was, whether the article in question could continue to be exported at all under the existing duty. There was no revenue worth talking of derived from Holland for coals; the effect of the duty was almost altogether to prevent the export.
 Lord Morpeth  thought, that the duty on olive oil should be reduced to 3 l s l s
 Mr. Lennard  objected to the Amendment, as it would in effect destroy the whole value and efficacy of the Bill. If it were recollected that, for offences which had lately ceased to be capital, there no longer existed the same reluctance to
 1096
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the Criminal-Law of England was a bloody and barbarous code, and very badly administered. It was lamentable to see a country excelling every other in science and art so backward in the progress toward civilization in her criminal laws. What did the noble Lord mean by bodily harm? A mere bruise or discolouring of the skin was included in the words of the Amendment, and this was to be as great a crime as murder in the eye of the law. What else could be meant by "bodily harm?" They knew that "grievous bodily harm" was
 1097
 Mr. O'Connell  opposed the clause, because he was unwiling to increase the patronage of the Bench, over that possessed by the Bar. He knew in theory this clause diminished the patronage of the Judge, but it did not in practice. The Judge would still have the power to appoint the Counsel, and he would tell the House how that power had been exercised in Ireland. He had known a Judge go the same circuit twelve successive assizes, merely because he had sons or brothers, or nephews, who practised on that circuit. He did not allude to a Judge whose conduct had come under the consideration of that House. The clause would increase this evil, and therefore he should vote against it.
 Mr. O'Connell  was glad to hear that such was the case in England. He could assure the House the practice was diametrically opposite in Ireland, for there the prisoner knew nothing of the charge to be brought against him but the short abstract contained in the commitment, and it not unfrequently happened, that depositions taken on a subsequent charge were exhibited against him.
 Mr. O'Connell : I wish to know from the right hon. Gentleman, whether the statement in the newspapers, that the renewal of the Irish Coercion Bill in its present shape, had been advised and called for by the Irish Government, was correct? I ask the right hon. Secretary whether the fact was so, and if the statement be true?
 Mr. O'Connell : That is no answer to my question. The question which I asked was, whether the Bill, in its present shape, was advised and called fur by the Irish Government?
 Mr. O'Connell : That is a very safe course for the right hon. Gentleman to pursue. I now ask him if it is his intention to bring the Bill forward in this House?
 Mr. O'Connell : Then I have been exceedingly deceived by the right hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. O'Connell : I shall answer the right hon. Gentleman's statement. I shall have so much to explain, if not to contradict, that it will be better to take that course.
 Mr. O'Connell : The right hon. Gentleman is perfectly safe in saying that, for it will be utterly impossible for me, after what has taken place, to place confidence in anything but his public statements. The right hon. Gentleman has cautiously abstained from dates in his statement, and he has been equally prudent in suppressing a great deal of what occurred between us at the interview of which he speaks. I shall follow the right hon. Gentleman's example in some degree, because I do not wish to involve other parties in the discussion, especially where it is unnecessary to do so. The right hon. Gentleman began by saying, that many premature questions had been put on the subject of the renewal of the Coercion Bill. Does the right hon. Gentleman mean that I, or any individuals connected with me, asked those questions? The contrary was the fact.
 1104 1105 1106 1107 ["No, no."] 1108 1109
 Mr. O'Connell : But there is one fact not before the House. I wanted the right hon. Gentleman on Friday last, when this conversation occurred, to let me have the Report of 1832, with respect to the disturbances in Ireland—the Report drawn up by Sir Henry Parnell—printed. He said, emphatically, "There is no occasion for it to be printed, you will be satisfied of that by the announcement made by Lord Grey in the House of Lords to-night." I said, in reply, "There is only one course for you to take—to resign, for, after the manner in which you have acted, you will be otherwise guilty of a deception on me." His reply was, "Say nothing of that to-day."
 Mr. O'Connell : On my honour, as a Gentleman, you did.
 Mr. O'Connell : Does the right hon. Gentleman mean to deny that he spoke of resigning?
 Mr. O'Connell : That was not what was said by the right hon. Gentleman, nor anything like it.
 Mr. O'Connell  again rose, and said, that he hoped no objection would be made by the right hon. Gentleman or the Government to the production of the correspondence between the Marquess Wellesley and the Government respecting the Coercion Bill. By that it would be seen whether the renewal of that Bill had been opposed at the time stated to him by the right hon. Gentleman by the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland. That was the point of difference between the right hon. Gentleman and himself. With anything else the House had nothing to do. But it was of great importance that it should be ascertained whether at any particular period, the Lord-lieutenant was opposed to the renewal of the Coercion Bill. In a speech made elsewhere, on the introduction of that Bill, it was stated by the noble Earl at the head of the Administration, that the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland had called for the Bill. Now, for the satisfaction of those who had so cheered the right hon. Gentleman to-night, he was anxious to get at the fact whether the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland had called for the Bill as stated elsewhere. He was, also, anxious to ascertain whether the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland, so very recently as a fortnight ago, was opposed to the renewal of the Bill, as then stated to him by the right hon. Gentleman; for in that case it would be a curious matter to discover the reasons for Lord Wellesley's change of opinion. He thought that the right hon. Gentleman should have the strongest motives to produce the correspondence of Lord Wellesley up to the period in question, in order that it might be seen whether the inference which he drew from the right hon. Gentleman's statement on that occasion was correct or not. The hon. Member concluded by moving for copies of the correspondence which had taken place between the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland and his Majesty's Government on the subject of the renewal of the Coercion Act.
 Mr. O'Connell : Then, why did I not make my Motion for the printing of the Report? I want to know that.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he would not divide the House, although the question should be put in order to place his Motion on the Journals. The right hon. Gentleman had succeeded once in deceiving him; but he (Mr. O'Connell) would take care that he should not do so again. The
 1116
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  rose to bring forward his Motion respecting the Currency, but the hon. Gentleman had not proceeded far in his speech when
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  said, that this was a most unfair way to get rid of the Motion.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  withdrew the Clause.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  said, it was now the proper time to propose the insertion of the clause of which he had given notice—"That from and after the passing of this Act, every prisoner to be tried shall be entitled to a fair copy of the depositions sworn against him on which the indictment has been grounded, on payment of a fee to the Clerk of the Peace of the district in which the trial may take place of 6 d.
 Mr. Littleton : It is not usual to make such an inquiry with respect to a Bill that is not before the House, but I have no hesitation or difficulty in telling the hon. and learned Gentleman, that the introduction of the Bill has the entire sanction of the Irish Government.
 Mr. Littleton : That is a question that cannot yet arise. The Bill is now before the House of Lords. When the proper time arrives, it will be for the Government to decide as to its introduction here. I can tell the hon. Gentleman, however, that whoever may bring the Bill in, I shall vote for it.
 Mr. Littleton : I have no other answer to give than that which I have already offered, especially with respect to a measure not now before the House.
 Mr. Littleton : I beg the attention of the House for a moment. The fact is not as stated by the hon. and learned Gentleman. The hon. and learned Gentleman says, that when he mentioned to me his intention of moving for the Report of 1832, I said there was no occasion for it, and that, in reply to an observation from him as to my resigning, I replied, "Wait until to-morrow." I declare, upon my honour, as a Gentleman, that I said no such thing.
 Mr. Littleton : I do not think it necessary to say much in reply to what has fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman, and indeed I can add but little to what I have already stated to the House. In making the statement that he has just made, of course the hon. and learned Gentleman has availed himself of the opportunity to endeavour to make the House believe that I took the step in question for the purpose of deceiving him. Indeed, he has accused me of a settled determination to deceive him. I am sure that there is not another man in the House who will not feel that I am utterly incapable of having acted from such motives. The whole course and tenour of the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman have been to justify the violation of confidence on his part, by making the House believe that I tricked him in order to vindicate his own wilful breach of confidence. What justification, after all, has the hon. and learned Gentleman exhibited for communicating information given to him under the seal of secrecy? I ask him whether
 1110 O'Connell:
 Mr. Littleton : Under the injunction which I have mentioned, I proceeded to communicate with the hon. Gentleman. I expressed my regret at the letter which he had written to the electors of Wexford, recommending the adoption of violent conduct. I knew how inconvenient it was to the Government that the hon. Gentleman should persist in the course he was pursuing. I knew the importance of his opinion from the great influence he possessed in Ireland, and I saw the advantage of dissuading the hon. Gentleman from so violently opposing a measure, the extent of which, was as yet undetermined. I hope I shall be thought to be, in some degree, justified in the course I adopted by those considerations. I told the hon. Gentleman, he having frequently applied to me to know whether the Government would recommend the Coercion Bill to be renewed, that, although the renewal of the measure was intended under certain limitations, yet, that those limitations were not then decided upon, and I mentioned a probable day by which time I thought they would be determined, I am bound to
 1102 1103
 Mr. Littleton : The observation which
 1100 1101
 Mr. Littleton : I cannot answer that. I do not know anything about it. It is true that the hon. and learned Gentleman declared his intention of moving that the Report be printed, and that he said something of the Bill. I did not in reply say a word about resigning. To the best of my knowledge, my reply was, as nearly as possible, in these words—"I trust that whatever your feelings or opinions on the subject may be, you will not divulge them to-night, but will wait until to-morrow, when you can ascertain the particular nature of the Bill by Lord Grey's speech,"
 Mr. Littleton  said, that the custom of the House in such cases had been so far to trust the Government as to permit it to select such portions of a correspondence as it might consider necessary to justify the introduction of a particular measure.
 1113
 Mr. Littleton : The hon. and learned Gentleman is mistaken. I never said any such thing. I deny solemnly, on the honour of a Gentleman, that I made any statement of the kind.
 Mr. Littleton : I declare solemnly, before the House, and upon my honour, as a Gentleman, that I never did.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had challenged his hon. and learned friend with a breach of confidence, in stating in public a private conversation; but the truth was, that his hon. and learned friend was very nearly losing the confidence of the people of Ireland in not explaining the reasons for the conduct which he was induced to pursue in consequence of the communication with the right hon. Gentleman. He (Mr. Feargus O'Connor) would only add, that he had heard little or nothing on the subject of the Coercion Bill from his hon. and learned friend; but he had heard a great deal from some Gentlemen connected with the Government. He was sorry that his hon. and learned friend had suffered himself to be influenced for a single moment by the communication made to him, for his hon. and learned friend's conduct with regard to the Tithe Bill had not tended to increase his popularity in Ireland.
 Mr. Aglionby  admitted, that the clause was suggested by the best feelings of humanity, but was afraid that to carry it into effect would be impracticable. If Counsel were assigned to every prisoner for every offence, however trivial, that came before the Court, there were so many
 1098
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, that having just arrived from Ireland, he seized the earliest opportunity of stating to the House, that there never was heard any intelligence from this country relative to the intentions of Government as to Ireland with so much astonishment as the Irish people heard that this Government had dared to suggest the renewal of the Coercion Bill, more particularly when it was recollected with what difficulty many English Gentlemen in that House had been at all induced, by the display of professions of kindness generally towards Ireland by his Majesty's Ministers, to
 1114
 Mr. Benett  objected to the clause.
 1099
 Mr. Hardy  was of opinion the clause as it stood would be much better out of the Bill.
 Mr. Hardy  thought that, for the purpose of preserving uniformity with the other Acts of Parliament, it was necessary that the Amendment should be adopted.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that the Amendment, far from effecting the object the noble Lord had in view, held out an inducement to the robber to commit murder. If in the scuffle which naturally ensued when a robbery was committed the person robbed should receive any bodily harm from the thief, the latter, knowing himself to be guilty of an equal crime with the murderer, would have a strong inducement to commit the greater crime to facilitate his escape or prevent detection.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, the injustice that would result from withdrawing the clause was this—that the man who had a guinea in his pocket would be able to avail himself of the benefit of Counsel, while the poor man without a farthing in the world might be condemned, from his inability to procure Counsel.
 Mr. Roebuck  objected to the clause being withdrawn, as it involved one of the most important principles of the Bill.
 Mr. Sheil  stated, that the Marquess Wellesley was Lord Lieutenant of Ireland in 1822 and 1823, when the Insurrection Act was brought forward. The Whigs were then in opposition, and they insisted
 1115
 Mr. O'Reilly  felt great difficulty in addressing the House after the statements they had heard on the one side, and the contradictions they had heard on the other. He felt bound, however, at once to state to his Majesty's Government that, if they did not justify themselves from the charge made against them by the hon. and learned Gentleman, he should feel bound to adopt a different course towards them from what he had done since he had had the honour of a seat in that House. The House might well believe that he (Mr. O'Reilly) had little in common in politics with the hon. and learned member for Dublin when he stated, that he had not spoken to that hon. and learned Member for upwards of two years. It was not, therefore, to favour that hon. Member that he made these observations, but he felt that it was necessary for the justification of the character of himself and other Irish members, who had supported the Government, that all the documents on the subject should be laid on the Table. He would not say anything as to the motives that might actuate parties in their opposition to Government, but he felt bound at once to state, that he should not hereafter be able to give that entire confidence and support to the Government which he had hitherto given, if a fair statement of the facts which rendered it necessary to renew the Coercion Bill was not laid before the House.
 Lord Howick  expressed a hope, that the Clause would be withdrawn. He knew that a strong feeling was entertained against it.
 Lord Howick  said, the object he had in view in proposing the Amendment to the House was to give persons who should be guilty of robbery an inducement to abstain from the further commission of crime. The existing law was quite at variance with the practice that had prevailed for many years past, and his object in proposing the Amendment was, to reconcile the law to the prevailing practice as far as it was practicable.
 Lord Howick  proposed an Amendment, to the effect that the punishment of death should not be abolished where any violence was committed, or bodily harm inflicted.
 On the Motion of Mr. Littleton , the House went into Committee on the Irish Church Temporalities Act.
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, that the vestry cess had amounted to no less than 75,000 l l
 Mr. O'Connell  was satisfied that if there was a probability of producing peace in Ireland by the sacrifice of 20,000 l l l l l l l l 1144 l
 Mr. Stanley  said, he hardly knew whether that was the proper opportunity to enter upon a discussion of the principle of this measure. But the Resolution in the hands of the Chairman appeared to him to involve a question so important, that he thought it his duty, even in that preliminary stage of the proceeding, to state the objections which he had to it. If, however, the House signified to him, that that was not the fitting opportunity for the course which he meant to take, he would reserve his observations for another occasion; but otherwise he would take the liberty of stating the grounds on which he felt himself called upon to oppose these Resolutions, and to take the sense of the House, which he could assure the Committee he should do, from a sense of duty. He objected to the Resolutions in the Chairman's hands; but in stating the grounds on which his objections were founded, he gave his right hon. friend considerable advantage; for he did not object merely to the charge proposed to be made on the Consolidated Fund, but to the whole plan; and his objections embraced not only the two Resolutions before the House, but the whole plan, according to which the money was to be applied. He objected to these Resolutions, because they would not permit—because they were not only inconsistent, but at variance with—and because, in short, they would altogether prevent, at any future time, the accomplishment of that great principle which it had been the anxious desire of the Government, during the last three years, to establish—a principle which was the foundation of his right hon. friend's Bill, when it was first introduced,—namely, the extinction of tithes through the medium of redemption. It was this grand principle which should form the leading feature of any measure brought forward on this subject; and he objected to these Resolutions, conceiving
 1147 1148 1149 1150 1151 s s s s 1152 1153 1154 l Littleton: 1155 l s l Littleton: l s l 1156
 Mr. O'Connell  was not much struck by the arguments of the noble Lord; but he was by one of his assertions, in which he stated, that whoever voted for the Resolution of the right hon. Gentleman would pledge himself to the appropriation by Parliament of the Ecclesiastical Fund.
 Mr. Lefroy  said, the magnitude of the interests involved in the present question,
 1174 1175 1176 1177 1178
 Mr. Stanley  said, that as his right hon. friend had referred to some official information on a subject affecting himself (Mr. Stanley) he felt anxious to say a few words. His right hon. friend had said, that he had recently seen a Bill for constructing waggons for the removal of the more valuable property of the cottier tenants who were in arrear for tithe. He could not doubt that the right hon. Gentleman had had some information; and he could not for a moment suppose, that his right hon. friend did not believe the statement, that the goods of some cottiers had been removed by these waggons. Of course his right hon. friend could not make such a statement, without having inquired into the facts. It was true that there was a waggon-train which had been employed in conveying the hay and corn
 1211
 Colonel Davies  would not hesitate to make a sacrifice calculated to promote the peace of Ireland; but would any man who understood the situation of that country believe, that it would not require a very different measure? They must look deeper for a remedy; for as long as the people of Ireland had to pay for a Church opposed to the religion they professed they never would have peace in Ireland. The House should be cautious before it acceded to the proposition. The noble Lord offered a security of 1,200,000 l l l
 Lord John Russell  said, that throughout the speech which the House had just heard from the right hon. Baronet he had looked most anxiously, but he had looked
 1199
 Lord John Russell  resumed: Then it was clear, that the course of policy which the right hon. Baronet would adopt was the same as theirs—he would do as they did—he would apply the force of the Crown to the collection of the tithes in Ireland, laying down as a principle the inviolability of Church property. But let it not be forgotten, that they had expressly reserved the question of appropriation on the Church Temporalities' Bill, and that they were guilty of no inconsistency whatever in the course which they were then about to take. Did the House suppose, that it would be practicable for them to accomplish the work of collection, if now and for the future the principle of appropriation were to be left out of view? Amongst the difficulties with which they had to contend was this—that the tithe was to be collected from a great number of petty occupiers in three-pences, and twopences, and pence, and half-pence; besides that, they would have to contend against the religious feelings of the people. What was desirable, therefore, was not a measure of nominal relief for the people; but one that would relieve them immediately and permanently. This was the difficulty in bringing forward an altered measure which Ministers had to get over. They wished to shorten the time of collection, and to introduce some measure of a permanent nature. The measure of his right hon. friend (Mr. Stanley) was intended to extinguish tithes finally, but it would not put an end to them at present. The present measure had an advantage over that of his right hon. friend. The
 1200 l 1201 1202 [Cheering, and cries of "No, no."] 1203
 Mr. Charles A. Walker  was anxious to support the Government in the present instance, as this measure showed that they wished to make concessions, and to introduce improvements. He thought it was necessary to allow a just and fair compensation to the landlords for the burthens they were to take upon themselves. Upon this ground, he should support the Government as far as they went.
 Mr. David Roche  said, that for five years, at least, whatever it might do afterwards, the Bill could not possibly put an end to the tithe disturbances in Ireland.
 Mr. Ellice  said, that if he thought the proposition now before the House was to
 1204
 Mr. Ellice  thought, that he perfectly understood the Bill when he rose before, and the right hon. Gentleman had said nothing which induced him to alter his opinion. He (Mr. Ellice) had said, that the money would be advanced out of the Consolidated Fund to make his allowance to the landlord if he accepted the voluntary rent-charge, and one of the provisions of the Bill was to make an allowance to the tenant proportionate to the bonus made to the landlord. A landlord could only recover the same amount from the tenant that he paid himself, and this would be a great advantage to the occupiers of the soil. The fact was, that in cases of voluntary conversion of the land-tax into a rent-charge, there would be a reduction equivalent to two-fifths of the amount of tithe.
 Mr. Littleton  was anxious to say a few words in reply. His right hon. friend (Mr. Stanley), if he would allow him (Mr. Littleton) to call him so, in the course of what he (Mr. Littleton) must call anything but a temperate and mild speech—had chosen to describe him (Mr. Littleton) as a thimble-rig player, in consequence of the changes that he had made in the clauses of that Bill. It certainly appeared to him that such observations were a little extraordinary, coming as they did from the greatest master of legerdemain that had ever practised on the Tithe Law of Ireland. He did not wish to say anything that could in any way be offensive to the right hon. Gentleman, but from the moment that he took up the tithe question down to the time he left the office he had now the honour of filling, the right hon. Gentleman had failed in his attempts. No individual had ever made more attempts than his right hon. friend to effect a change in the nature of tithe property, and no person had ever more signally failed. He did not bring this forward as a matter of reproach to his right hon. friend, for he had supported him in all the propositions that had been brought forward; and if his right hon. friend had failed, he shared the blame for the error with the Government and the House. But he felt bound to state, that the observations which had been made by his right hon. friend came with a bad grace from him after the unsuccessful attempts he had himself made. After all the honest and able efforts of his right hon. friend, in what situation did the property of the tithe-owner stand now? Not three weeks had elapsed since he (Mr. Littleton) had
 1207 l 1208 l l l l O'Connell: 1209 1210 Shaw:
 Mr. Littleton  said, that he morely quoted the information communicated to him from Dublin.
 Mr. Littleton  said, that all the charges under that head did not amount to more than 35,000 l
 Mr. Littleton  said, it would be charged upon the Consolidated Fund. It would be obviously impossible to apply any portion of the Perpetuity purchase-money as a bonus to those lay impropriators who would voluntarily take the Land-tax as a rent-charge on themselves. That fund could only be applied to defray so much of the bonus as would be required with respect to ecclesiastical tithes. He had already stated, that the Ecclesiastical Commissioners would be empowered to pay out of the Perpetuity Fund so much of the sums advanced out of the Consolidated Fund as were required to make good the deficiency arising out of the creation of rent-charges in lieu of ecclesiastical
 1141
 Mr. Littleton  repeated, that the Ecclesiastical Commissioners would, from the fund of 91,000 l l l l l l
 Mr. Littleton  said, he had intended to to go on with the Tithe Bill; but, understanding that he could not proceed with it till the House had, in a Committee, passed certain resolutions relative to the Church Temporalities' Act, he had moved for such a Committee. Having already detailed on Monday last the nature of the changes which his Majesty's Government had deemed it necessary to make in the Irish Tithe Bill, he would now briefly and in substance restate what he then laid before the Committee. The Committee was aware, that the Bill proposed to put an end to all composition for tithes payable throughout Ireland from the 1st of November next, such composition to be converted into a land-tax, payable by the same parties liable to the composition, and to the same amount. It was further proposed, that that land-tax should be continued for a period of five years, ending the 1st of November, 1839. It was then to be converted into a rent-charge; but it was also proposed, that any time during that period, up to November, 1836, a rent charge equal to the interest at 3½ per cent on the amount of the Land-tax, multiplied by four-fifths of the number of years' purchase which the land might be fairly worth, might be voluntarily incurred by the owners of the first estates of inheritance, for which a bonus, in certain proportions, as he would state hereafter, would be granted to them. At the end of the period—namely, on the 1st of November, 1839—in all cases where a rent-charge of the amount he had mentioned should not have been created, then a rent-charge equal to four-fifths of the Land-tax should be compulsorily imposed, and be-
 1138 l s l l 1139 l l l 1140 l l
 Mr. Littleton  said, it would be indemnified from the funds, as far as they would go, that he had specified. It would be impossible to say accurately what amount it would be necessary to advance from the Consolidated Fund. A bonus was to be given to the landlords for voluntarily taking on themselves the rent-charge, and it was impossible to say how far that would be carried in the years that were allowed for such a voluntary composition. If that amount should in one year be carried to its fullest extent, undoubtedly a loss would accrue to the Consolidated Fund. He had not, however, heard any estimate that carried the amount of the bonus payable in the course of a year beyond 100,000 l
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  hoped, when the case of which he had given notice should come before the House, the individuals now suffering imprisonment would be considered as having followed the course recommended by Lord Milton and persons connected with the Government.
 Mr. Shaw  asked how the bonus payable to the lay impropriators would be provided for.
 Mr. Shaw  said, the whole secret of the policy pursuing by his Majesty's Ministers on the question under the consideration of the House, was let out by the speech of the hon. Member who had just sat down. The hon. member said, he came down to the House prepared to vote against the measure, but since he had heard the declaration of the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) on the question of appropriation, he had changed his mind, and would give the measure every support. What a miserable system of temporising and double dealing was this on the part of the Government! they threw out in their speeches the bait of "Church plunder" to catch votes on a question which they contended did not involve that principle, and yet they had not the manliness or honesty to act upon the principle when it was regularly before the House. They well knew they would have a large majority in that House, if they brought forward a resolution affirming that principle of the spoliation of Church property; but they had not the courage to meet the consequences out of that House. No—not even in the Cabinet of which they were members, although they boasted that it was now a united Cabinet, of which he did not believe one word; but instead of that intelligible and straight-forward (although he felt desperate) course, what did the Government do? Why—they calculated, as in the case of the hon. member for Wexford, that they should procure a majority there, by professing sentiments as members of that House, which, as members of the Cabinet, they would not dare to carry into operation; otherwise, why the shuffling—why the commission-issuing why the moving of the previous question upon a Resolution that did not go one iota beyond their own declarations, and shrinking at all times from fairly meeting
 1180 l l l 1181 1182
 Mr. Robinson  wished to know what the Resolution meant? As far as he could understand, it would appear that the whole of the charge was to be placed
 1142
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had made a statement essentially and entirely different from his previous statement. The right hon. Gentleman stated, that this plan would get rid of a system under which 10,000 processes for tithes could be served on the peasantry
 1206
 Mr. Goulburn  had but one observation to make. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Ellice) he (Mr. Goulburn) was sure had made the observations which he had just addressed to the House in ignorance. He (Mr. Goulburn) thought the House should understand the error committed by the right hon. Gentleman who had called upon the House to support this Motion,
 1205
 Sir Henry Hardinge  thought, that the petitioners were entitled to consideration, not so much on their own merits, as on account of what had passed in this House. Had it not been stated by the brother of the Lord Chancellor, and other persons connected with the Government, or of high stations in society, that if certain measures were not conceded, the people would be justified in withholding the payment of taxes? If such examples were given to the people by persons of rank, and individuals connected with the Government, what was to be expected from the people themselves? He thought these circumstances ought to have some weight with the House as to mitigating the punishment of these offenders.
 Mr. Lambert  said, that though he was opposed to the former Bill, yet, when he heard the declarations of the Government, and when he saw the ill-assorted and ill-omened union of parties—when he heard the epithets of shoplifters and swindlers applied by a right hon. Gentleman, a late Secretary, to those who were opposed to his views, considering the machinations resorted to on the opposite side, he could not think of opposing the Bill. He respected the religious feelings and prejudices of every one when those feelings emanated from the heart, and were not directed to factious purposes. But if religion were to he made the vehicle of party views, and the instrument of social discord, he must say, that religion was abused, and that such proceedings should be discountenanced. How could it injure the Protestant Church if its revenues were drawn from a source less odious to the people than they were at present? Hon. Gentlemen talked of vindicating the law; but the House pronounced that the law was bad—that it was based on injustice. Then should they abolish that law, and there was therefore an end of its vindication. But as the House which declared the law to be bad did not annul it, the people, acting on the declarations of the House, took the matter into their own hands and anticipated the House. He thought the landlords could do much to mitigate, if not remove, the evil. But then it would not be fair to ask them to
 1179
 Mr. Roebuck :—I have, Sir, to present two petitions to the House, respecting persons now in prison for offences by the Press. I present both together, because I am about to support them both by the same wide general principle, and because I wish also to advert to what I consider a blameable inconsistency in the punishments awarded. The first petition is from a person of the name of Reeves, who was prosecuted for what is termed a seditious libel. This libel was a gross, vulgar, and ignorant appeal to the people to assemble in National Convention. I am informed, that this paper was printed during the short time that the present Ministers were out of office, on the passing of the Reform Bill. The prisoner bought the paper the last Westminster election, and sold it in the crowd assembled round the hustings; being, as he said, ignorant of its contents. This, be it remembered, was long after the publication of the paper, which had, in fact, long lain as waste paper in the shop, I believe, of Mr. Hetherington. On the day upon which this poor and illiterate person was condemned, Messrs. Grant and Bell were also condemned. Now, in both cases, the prosecutions were instituted because of danger to the State; and I beg to ask the House, whence, if danger were to arise, was it most likely to come, from the ignorant Reeves, or the instructed and intelligent gentlemen, Messrs. Grant and Bell? Unquestionably, if these various persons should think fit to assail the Government, no one could for a moment believe but that the danger, if any, was far more likely to exist in the case of Messrs Grant and Bell, than in that of Reeves. But it appeared to the whole Court, upon deliberation, that three months were sufficient to ward off such danger as resulted from the
 1135 True Sun 1136 True Sun True Sun
 Mr. Hume  inquired how the Consolidated Fund was to be indemnified for the advances made out of it?
 Mr. Hume  expressed his inability accurately to understand the statement just made by the right hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Hume  said, he found himself in an uncomfortable position. He should be sorry to be obliged to vote with the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Stanley) on this occasion, because he did not fully concur with him in any one of the propositions he had put forth. Yet he felt that it would be easier for him to support the right hon. Gentleman than to go along with the noble Lords, and the right hon. Gentlemen opposite. He was sure, that a number of those around him must share in this feeling. He could not believe, that any of those hon. Members who had voted for the Motion of the hon. member for St. Alban's (Mr. Ward) would feel disposed to support the Resolution of the right hon. Secretary. Holding the opinions that he did, he would accordingly make
 1166 l 1167 1168 l
 Mr. Sheil  said, that there was a very important difference between the Resolution and the Amendment; and the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gisborne) was, in consistency, bound to support the latter. He had condemned the exclusive application of the surplus Perpetuity Fund to the deficit on the Ecclesiastical tithes. The resolution did confine the application of the surplus Perpetuity Fund to the Ecclesiastical deficit, and expressly excluded lay tithes. The Amendment corrected that defect. He did not desire to throw any vexatious obstacle in the way of the Government where they had manifested the least disposition to take a single step towards justice to Ireland; but he could not avoid remonstrating with them on their perverse, their weak, adherence to the doctrine that the Perpetuity Fund was to be only applicable to Church purposes. The Resolution charged the entire deficit on the Consolidated Fund, and they reimbursed that fund as far as Ecclesiastical tithes only were concerned out of the surplus Perpetuity Fund. Apply it to the deficit of lay tithes, and then they had at once the recognition of the great principle of disappropriation from the Church. The 147th Clause originally provided, that the surplus fund should be applied to such purposes as Parliament should think proper. That clause was abandoned, and a
 1186
 Mr. Gisborne  said, that when tins measure was first brought forward, and he was called on to vindicate the right of property in tithes, leaving the question of appropriation, on which it was intimated the Cabinet differed, unsettled, he certainly hesitated as to his vote; but he now considered the case changed. Since the recent change in the Cabinet, the case stood on very different grounds. The ministerial appointments had given the utmost satisfaction, and the real question was, whether they should quarrel with people who were travelling the same road with them, because they did not travel fast enough for their wishes, and throw themselves into the arms of those who wished to travel in an opposite direction. The right hon. Gentleman opposite would
 1183 1184 1185 Move, move!
  Mr. Hodges  wished Ministers would not delay bringing in a measure to correspond with their declarations respecting appropriation. It was not, therefore, on account of the approximation of this Bill to the principle of the 147th clause, that he should be obliged to vote against them. What he objected to was the grant of a sum of money out of the Consolidated Fund. If he thought it would tranquillize Ireland, no man would be more ready to grant it than he should be; but could any one suppose that the hon. and learned member for Dublin or his friends would, directly or indirectly, give a pledge not to agitate the Repeal of the Union? It was vain to expect tranquillity in Ireland till legal provision was made there for the relief of the poor.
 Mr. Christmas  would not object to the new fund, though he preferred the redemption of tithes. The first Bill had not rendered this absolutely necessary. He thought the Perpetuity Fund might be applied to it, though he objected to any part of it being charged upon the Consolidated Fund. He should vote against the Bill.
 Mr. O'Reilly  did not intend to oppose the proposition, but he was satisfied that no such scheme as that before the House would produce peace in Ireland. When the Tithe Bill came under discussion he should propose a Resolution to the effect that peace could not be obtained in Ireland until they abolished the payment of tithes altogether. The right hon. Gentleman must admit, that until the landlord took the rent-charge upon him, there could not be tranquillity, and yet this was not to take place till 1839. The whole scheme appeared to him to be absurd. He had no objection to this country paying the tithes of Ireland if it pleased.
 Mr. O'Reilly  said, that as he had given notice of a Motion with a view to afford relief to the cottier tenantry, he felt called upon to stand up, and contradict in parliamentary language, the statement of the right hon. member for Cambridge, that this measure would confer no benefit on the Irish peasant. He (Mr. O'Reilly) admitted, that it did not go far enough, but for what it did he thanked the Government. He intended in Committee to move, that the peasantry be exempted from the payment of tithes altogether.
 Sir Robert Peel  did not wish to debate the question at present, but he was anxious, before the Committee did so, that they should have an explicit statement of what was intended. If he understood his right hon. friend's statement, he estimated the maximum charge for commuting ecclesiastical tithes at 100,000 l l l l l l l 1145 l l l l l Littleton l l l
 Sir Robert Peel  had no reluctance to state that he should, in the first place, desire to see the law carried into full force; and to this extent, he concurred with the noble Lords, that he would direct the force of the Government in order to effect the collection of tithes; the proceeds of it, however, he should desire to see applied solely to the purposes of the Church. He would go with them in collection, but he objected to their mode of appropriation.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, there were two principles involved in the question under discussion. The first was, that the public should be called upon to contribute a certain sum to make up the deficiency which would arise from the adoption of the change to the Irish land proprietors. There was, in short, to be an absolute charge of 60,000 l 1189 l." 1190 l l l 1191 1192 1193 Althorp: 1194 1195 1196 1197 An hon. Member: 1198
 Sir Robert Peel  deprecated long premeditated discussions on the presentation of petitions. Only nine hours a-week were allowed for the presentation of petitions, and if such discussions were indulged in, it was impossible one-half of the petitions could ever be presented to the House.
 Lord Althorp  said, that with respect to the ecclesiastical tithes, when a deficit took place in consequence of the creation of the Land-tax or rent-charges in lieu of them, that deficit would be paid in the first instance out of the Consolidated Fund, to be repaid out of the Perpetuity Purchase Fund, and other funds in the hands of the Irish Ecclesiastical Commissioners. With regard to the conversion of the tithes, it might certainly be argued that the whole would be converted at once; but that was an extreme case, and in opposition to it he had a right to assume, that if such would be the case, the deficit that would thereby arise would not be so large as was estimated. If the deficit should amount to 100,000 l 1143 l l
 Lord Althorp  said, it appeared to him as if it had been said, that he had taken upon himself all the responsibility of his right hon. friend's measures. He had never said anything of the sort. He had voted for these measures, but their having failed did not, as it appeared to him, raise any difficulty sufficient to constitute a reason against the present Bill. The right hon. Gentleman had spoken of the Church Temporalities' Bill of last year, and the present measure as being inconsistent with each other, and as if he (Lord Althorp) were open to the charge of inconsistency in giving his support to both. To remove the slightest possible ground for any such imputation, he had last Session anticipated it by saying, in the most distinct terms, that the question of the appropriation of Church-property was not in his mind to be affected by the Church Temporalities' Bill.
 Lord Althorp  was not at all surprised at the cheers from the opposite side of the House, which followed the speech of his right hon. friend, as that speech had verified all the anticipations he ever had formed of his right hon. friend, when speaking from that Bench. He was sure that when he came to speak on the side of the Opposition—when, indeed, he became a leading Opposition speaker, that, his right hon. friend's genius would have fair play, and he would not confine himself to the cautions and measured diction with which Ministers were compelled to be familiar. He found very strong terms at the commencement of his right hon. friend's speech—"imbecility," "timidity," "robbery," "spoliation," were some of the mildest phrases that were employed; these were good opposition expressions, and his right hon. friend had made a regular opposition speech. But he should have to take some notice of his right hon. friend's argument, and leave his declamation. For his own part, he believed that his right hon. friend's measures for the pacification of Ireland while he was in office, were wise, but, Unfortunately, they were applied some years too late; if they had been tried several years ago, he believed they would have been successful; but while he acknowledged this, he could not congratulate his
 1162 1163 1164 1165 l l
 Viscount Howick  denied, that the Government or any persons connected with it, had sanctioned the proceedings alluded to in the articles in the  True Sun
 Viscount Howick  thought it would be much better to postpone the consideration of these cases for the present, as a notice was already in the Order-book respecting one of them. He must, nevertheless, protest against the doctrine held forth in the libels in question, that because a Government was unpopular, it was competent to persons to assemble, calling themselves a National Convention, and pass measures with a direct tendency to the subversion of the Government; and if such proceedings could not be sanctioned, how could the hon. Member, in common consistency, refuse to punish persons who were guilty of instigating the people to adopt such measures?
 Mr. O'Connell : One thing was manifest—that the documents upon the Table ought not to be treated lightly, but deliberately. If the liberties of the Irish people were of any value to the House or to any portion of it, it would destroy the possibility of making a flippant observation upon a partial and particular view, without regarding the bearings of the whole case. He would not enter into bygone topics; his statement a few days ago did not, in fact, differ from that of the right hon. Gentleman, and they were both before the public. How far the statements made to him were correct, was now beyond controversy; and he would not allude to them further than to say, that they demonstrated that, up to a certain day, the Irish Government was decidedly hostile to certain clauses of the Bill, and that some members of the Cabinet were opposed to their renewal. The documents were now upon the Table: whether they were the same as had been presented to the other House, he did not know; but if they were the same, they would establish that, on the 18th of April, Lord Wellesley called for the Bill—anxiously solicited for it—although on the 20th of June, he objected to its renewal. He was now again it favour of it; and it was material to know what had induced him so rapidly to Change
 1226 1227 l 1228
 Mr. O'Connell : Good God! was it referred to the opinion of a man to decide whether they should have this Act renewed who had never thought the Court-martial clause worth his attention at all? Were they then to suffer such an infringement of their liberties because this nobleman could not suffer the idea to disturb his semi-regal thoughts? The Government must produce the whole evidence upon this matter, and let the House see how it stood. There was the letter of the 18th of April before them; they wanted the next of the 20th of June, and Ministers were afraid to produce it. Would that House submit to such treatment? They had not time enough to consider the Bill, but they had their majority ready to carry it through—a majority of reformed Members—not the virtual, but the actual Representatives of the people. He trusted the House would not concede what was recommended by the right hon. Baronet, the member for Tamworth. What would they gain by it? Nothing. On the contrary, they would save time by appointing a Committee to make the necessary investigation. Did the right hon. Gentleman think, that they who opposed the Bill would not discuss it word for word, and sentence by sentence. Should he not have to deal with every line of the Bill, and to submit a distinct Motion upon the tergiversations and the practices which had been resorted to to carry it? Did they think, that he should allow any means of opposition to escape, or that any other of those who represented the feeling of the people of his country would? No man who would could ever again deserve the confidence of the people of Ireland, and be would never again recommend them to it. Oh! were these the measures they were to receive at the hands of men who professed so much—who called themselves the descendants of the old Whigs, the friends of liberty, the defenders of freedom, the enemies of tyranny—who talked of having civil freedom engraved on their standard and equal rights for their prin-
 1246 1247 fête Attorney General: True Sun: 1248
 Mr. O'Connell  begged to say a few words in explanation of what had fallen from the noble Lord who had just sat down. The noble Lord had stated, that he (Mr. O'Connell) had last year admitted the necessity and propriety of keeping the peasantry within their homes after nightfall, and placing them under the surveillance of the police. Now he had admitted no such thing. He certainly did give his consent to a clause in the Coercion Bill by which in any district which had been duly proclaimed as a disturbed one, no man was allowed to be out of his house without some lawful business; but that was a very different thing to shutting everybody up in his house, as had been alleged by the noble Lord.
 Mr. Ruthven  said, that Ministers proposed the re-enactment of this odious measure by way of compensating the Conservatives for the protection which they afforded them.
 The Marquess of Chandos  rose to move as an Amendment, a Resolution on the distressed state of the agricultural interest. He had, he said, a number of petitions from Buckinghamshire on the subject of Agricultural Distress, which he should defer presenting until another opportunity. He should, perhaps, apologise to the House for again occupying their attention upon the subject of agricultural distress. But the importance of the question would, he hoped, be a sufficient justification for again introducing the present subject, and at so late a period of the Session. The smallness of the majority against his Motion upon a former occasion inspired him with confident hopes that the decision upon the present Motion would lead to a result beneficial to the agricultural interests. He was convinced, that the Government would feel themselves called upon to grant some relief—particularly as the subject had been adverted to in his Majesty's Speech at the opening of the Session. In reply to a question asked some time ago, the noble Lend opposite declared, that nothing could
 1256 1257 1258
 Mr. Cayley , in commencing his observations, said he was very sorry to differ with his noble friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The hon. member for Middlesex had attacked the Agricultural Associations, and had adverted to the Unions. But he would beg leave to ask, whether a great distinction was not to be drawn between those Associations which met for the purpose of petitioning Parliament peaceably on the subject of their distress, and those Unions which paraded the streets in formidable array. The agricultural interest, he maintained, was taxed by low prices. And the hon. Gentleman proceeded to read a Letter which had been written by an operative of Manchester, which said, that the anti-Corn-law men dared not call a meeting in that town, because they knew that if they did, they would be defeated—that the operatives there were not to be gulled; and that they knew, if such tax were taken off, they (the operatives) would derive no benefit, as the money would go into the pockets of the master-manufacturers, instead of their own. To show the animus which directed certain persons, the hon. Member said, that that very morning they had a witness before the Committee on the band-loom weavers, who, having expressed a wish, that the Corn-laws should be done away, was asked, whether, in such an event, he might not be as much prejudiced in respect to his home custom, as he would be benefited by foreign trade in corn? To this, he replied, that certainly the feeling was,
 1266 l
 Mr. Baring  thought the agriculturists of the country owed a deep debt of gratitude to the noble Marquess for again bringing under discussion the condition of their interests, endeavouring once more to extract from Government some promise of relief. The distress of the farming population had now continued for a longer period than distress had ever previously been endured, and it became in consequence the more necessary that the attention of the Legislature should be earnestly and forcibly directed to it. Than the degree of relief just promised by the noble Lord, nothing could be more unsatisfactory, nay, nothing could be more insulting. The distressed condition of the agricultural interest at the commencement of the present Session had been deemed of such importance as to be worthy of mention in the Speech from the Throne; and, notwithstanding that circumstance, and notwithstanding the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was, up to the present time, unable to say, that the condition of that interest was improved, or improving, it appeared that all which they had to expect from his Majesty's Ministers, was the repeal of the tax on shepherds' dogs. Undoubtedly the relief which the noble Lord proposed giving was something; but it could not for a moment be expected to satisfy the farmers, who, more especially since the recognition of agricultural distress both in the Speech from the Throne, and in the speeches at various times made by Ministers, very naturally expected that some portion of the noble Lord's financial savings would have been appropriated to their relief. The noble Lord repeatedly promised, that as soon as the finances of the country permitted it, the agricultural interests should be relieved, but unfortunately when the proper time for carrying the promise into effect arrived, either from forgetfulness, or from a desire to stop the mouths of some more clamorous claimants, the noble Lord invariably passed over the agriculturists, and turned his savings into different channels. Whether the noble Lord was or was not sensible of this breach of promise, he could not positively say; but it would appear that the noble Lord was sensible of it, for, although the proper period had long since elapsed—up to the present hour the noble Lord had shirked—he (Mr. Baring) could not use a more appropriate term—making any exposition respecting the taxation of the country,
 1268 1269 1270 s s s 1271 1272 1273
 Mr. Heathcote  approved of the recommendations of the County-rate Committee, and trusted, that if the proposed changes were not made this Session, they would be completed next. With respect to the Corn-laws, he did not think the allusions to them judicious. As the subject had been introduced, he must say, that he thought too low a ground had been taken. The Corn-laws were supported by the judgment of a large majority in that House, and by a larger majority out of it. In the county which he had the honour to represent, he knew that Agricultural
 1264
 Mr. Baring  explained, that the speech alluded to had been made by him, not in opposition to a protecting duty, but in resistance of a demand to augment the then rate of protection. He did not now possess a single acre of land that he had not possessed in 1828, and therefore he could have no interested motives for the view he had just taken of the subject.
 Major Handley  said, that he should be surprised if the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) entertained the opinions which he expressed. If he did entertain such opinions, the agriculturists were insulted with a cruel mockery when a sentence was inserted in the King's Speech expressing his anxious wish to relieve them from distress. He had seen the observation made in a certain periodical, that the King's Speech was like the Royal touch in the King's Evil, namely, a panacea, and the insertion of a few words in it was sufficient to remove distress. Probably the noble Lord entertained this opinion. The noble Lord promised in the early part of the Session that some relief should be afforded by the remission of taxes pressing heavily on the agricultural interests, and that relief would also be afforded by the change in the Poor-laws and by the commutation of tithes. What relief had been afforded to that interest by the remission of taxes? The effect which would be produced by the alterations in the Poor-laws was doubtful; certainly any relief from that source would not be immediate. The commutation of tithes was likely to afford relief, but that had been thrown overboard, and there was no probability of its being carried into effect. The noble Lord might afford relief in some respect, namely, by putting a stop to the present system of
 1281
 The Marquess of Chandos  said, that at that hour, and after the discussion which the subject had undergone, he did not feel it necessary to trespass on the indulgence of the House by any reply to the remarks of those hon. Members who had taken a different view of the question from himself, but he must beg leave to deprecate the notion that he had brought forward this proposition from any party motives. He had not on the present, or on any occasion, introduced the subject from party motives.
 The Hon. Member  asserted that it did not. The reduction of taxation proposed by the noble Marquess had reference only to the landed interest, and, therefore, the word "general" was a humbug.
 Mr. Curteis  said, that for his part he never would, and he was satisfied his constituents never would, consent to pay any portion of the Irish tithes. He was bound to give such a proposition every possible opposition, and he must say, that he thought it most unjustifiable to call on the people of England to pay any portion of a burthen which ought to any exclusively on the landlords of Ireland.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  objected to the third reading of this Bill being brought on at that late hour (half-past two).
 Mr. Tooke  also objected to proceeding with the Bill at so late an hour.
 Mr. Poulter  said, he should persist in his Motion.
 An Hon. Member  denied that the Motion of the noble Marquess meant a reduction of taxation generally.
 Major Keppel  said, that in voting against the Amendment of the noble Marquess, he must protest against its being supposed that he was at all inimical to the agricultural interest. No man was more anxious for the promotion of that interest than he was, but he did not think that the present. Motion could affect it practically in any way. He acknowledged the great distress of the agriculturists, and had anxiously hoped to have heard some remedy suggested; he had heard none. The speeches in favour of the Motion were as vague and delusive as the Motion itself.
 Mr. William Duncombe  thought, that the imputation cast upon his noble friend (the Marquess of Chandos), and those who supported the Motion, were the most unjust that could be uttered. [Mr.  Methuen l l 1282
 Lord John Russell  observed, that if anybody thought this Bill ought to he renewed without the clauses against political agitation, he considered that the particular tone of the hon. and learned Gentleman that night should undeceive him. When the hon. and learned Member was so vehement against Government for renewing this Act, he begged the House to consider what it was that hon. and learned Gentleman had agreed to in the Act of last year. He was willing to permit the peasantry of Ireland to be compelled, in certain districts, to remain inside their houses at night, and to answer when their names were called over by a policeman. This it would not be denied, was a great infringement of the liberties of the subject. And he really considered it as no further infringement of those liberties to say, that in a country where people were not allowed to be out at night, no person should have the opportunity or the power of exciting them to acts of outrage. He, for one, was not disposed to propose a Bill which should strike merely at the lower classes, and not affect those who excited them and influenced them to acts of outrage. With respect to the law itself there would be plenty of time to discuss it. As regarded the Committee, called for by the hon. and learned Gentleman, it must be for one of two purposes—to ascertain whether the accounts of predial outrage were well founded—a fact which the hon. and learned Gentleman never doubted before, or else to inquire if such a thing as po-
 1250
 Mr. O'Dwyer  remarked, that the right hon. Baronet, it appeared, was willing to let that be done by Ireland which he would resist to the utmost, if it were directed against Scotland. The right hon. Baronet was content to sacrifice Ireland
 1254
 Mr. A. Lefroy  said, that he felt impelled by a conscientious sense of duty to support the re-enactment of the Coercion Bill; but he entirely concurred in the censures which had been passed upon his Majesty's Government.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that if an answer were
 1275 s s l l * * 1276 *
 Mr. Charles Grant  said, that as the hon. and learned Gentleman had alluded to him personally, he would trouble the
 1237
 Mr. Ronayne  said, it was quite clear from what had fallen from certain Ministers that night, that the Coercion Bill was required by the Government, not so much for the purpose of suppressing agrarian disturbances, as putting down political agitation.
 Mr. Ellice  begged to explain, that all the letters in question had been published with consent of the parties.
 Mr. Ellice  had only made the statement respecting the published letters as a justification of himself.
 Mr. Ellice  admitted, that there was some justification for the warmth which had been manifested in the course of the present discussion on the part of the Irish Members, but he did not mean to imitate it. He, however, could not understand what object could be gained or attained by referring the papers which had been laid on the Table by his noble friend to a Select Committee, which could not be obtained by the printing of those documents as proposed by his noble friend. The case of the Government depended upon the information contained in those papers, which, when printed, might be considered by every hon. Member before the measure came on for discussion. If the information therein contained should not then be found sufficient to justify the re-enactment of the Bill now before the other House of Parliament, then would be the proper time for the House to express an opinion upon it. By such a course, he could not but think that the House would act better for the country to which the Act was intended to be applied, than if it were now to send the documents to a Committee up-stairs, who could report their opinion only upon the matter contained in the papers themselves. All that the Government could desire was, that the whole matter should be taken into the full, fair, and calm consideration of the House—that the papers should be duly weighed and considered by every hon. Member, and that then would be the proper time for the House to declare, whether or not the measure was justified. He should avoid entering into any justification of the conduct of the Government, or to allude to the speeches which had been made on the other side of the House, as it would only add to the irritation which already prevailed. He, however, must entreat the House to accede to the Motion of his noble friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), and to allow the papers to be printed.
 Mr. Littleton  having found himself, upon a former occasion, under the necessity of making an unqualified admission of the indiscretion he had committed, he felt himself relieved from the duty of replying to that portion of the right hon. Baronet's speech which related to the communication he had made to the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite. Having done that, he was called upon to say no more upon the subject, and he should say no more upon it either then, or at any other time. The right hon. Baronet had
 1243
 Mr. Littleton  said, that the hon. and learned Member seemed to insist, and not
 1245
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  said, that some portion of the House had indulged in laughter at the excitement of his hon. friend the member for Meath; but he believed with him, that if a similar course were attempted with respect to England that was now enforced towards Ireland, the House would present a scene of far greater excitement. When he was fool enough to assist the Government through thick and thin with their Reform Bill, though he was warned at the time, that if that measure was not accompanied by some alterations in the Act of Union, the very first thing the Reformed Parliament would do, would be to pass some Gagging Bill for Ireland, what was the result?— the Coercion Bill. Let them not—let the Government not dare to talk to him about their remedial measures, their conciliatory measures, their tithe-extinction measures. Where were they all? They were useless, they were worse than useless—they were base delusions, and they operated as such upon the people of Ireland; and when they produced their natural effect, that of enraging that already-oppressed people, they must appease them, forsooth, with a Coercion Bill. The whole people of Ireland cried out, "Give us food!" and Ministers gave them the Coercion Bill—a Bill which was a violation of every principle of the Constitution, which was agreed to as a momentary violation, which was to be withdrawn, and which, nevertheless, the Government were now, it appeared, resolved to carry in all its original rigour. Let them try to do so. Let them make their attempt, and he, on his part, would raise such a cry in Ireland as would turn them out of their seats. Let him remind his countrymen of the words of the inspired bard:—
 Then onward the green banner rearing, Let's flesh ev'ry sword to the hilt; On our side is virtue and Erin, On their's is the Saxon and guilt!
 Mr. Robinson  said, that if the present question was one of a personal nature between the right hon. Secretary for Ireland and the hon. and learned member for Dublin, and he was almost afraid that it was not much else, he should have very little difficulty in making up his mind how to act. He had never yet acted in concert with the hon. and learned member for Dublin, but on the present occasion he must say, that he felt very much inclined to vote with him. It was very true, as had been urged by hon. Members opposite, that it would be a considerable inconvenience to appoint a Committee of Inquiry at so late a period of the Session. But it was not the fault of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, nor was it the fault of the House, that the question had not been brought on earlier. He must say, that from a full consideration of the importance of the question on which they were called to legislate, he should most sincerely vote for the adoption of the Amendment of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, unless his Majesty's Ministers could immediately show some reason why the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland should have changed his opinion in the way he appeared to have done about the 20th of June, or consent to lay before the House such papers as could best illustrate this singular inconsistency. It had been pretended that these papers were of a private nature; but he could not understand what was meant by private correspondence between public functionaries, and upon momentous public questions; at least he could not see why such private correspondence should be brought forward at all to influence the Legislature in their decision upon such questions.
 Mr. Robinson  would not make any
 1225
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, that whatever uncertainty might have prevailed amongst the Ministers, certain it was, that the measure contemplated to be again renewed was most unconstitutional in its character and object; and he would venture to say, that in the annals of Parliamentary history, there was not an instance in which the liberties of a whole country were
 1229 1230 1231 1232
 Mr. Abercromby  said, that when the proper time came he should hold himself prepared to give the reasons why he thought the re-enactment of the Coercion Act necessary for Ireland. At the present moment he would only offer a few words in remark upon one or two observations of the hon. and learned member for Dublin. That hon. and learned Member had spoken of the Court-martial clauses of the Bill as if it had been proposed by Government to withdraw those clauses in order to conciliate the opinions of the hon. and learned member for Kircud-bright and himself on the occasion of their accepting office. Now such was not the case. Those clauses were never submitted either to his hon. and learned friend or himself, and could not, therefore, have met with their dissent. He certainly understood that those clauses had been previously withdrawn by the Government. It appeared that his right hon. friend the Secretary for Ireland had been for some time carrying on a correspondence with the Lord-lieutenant upon the provisions of the Bill, in the course of which some variance of opinion had manifested itself; but he believed, that in the end they had come to a full understanding and agreement upon the subject. As to the delay in bringing this measure forward, which had been alluded to as a ground for complaint, for his own part he could not but think that his Majesty's Ministers had acted a wise, a
 1249
 Mr. Plumptre  said, that he would vote for the Amendment of the noble Lord; for unless the House upheld the agricultural interest, it must go to ruin.
 Mr. Walter  said, that having voted against a previous Motion of the noble Lord's of a somewhat similar tendency, he hoped he might be permitted to explain his reason for voting in favour of the present proposition. It was simply because the present Resolution was more definite and specific in its nature. It proposed to diminish agricultural and, he hoped he might add, every other species of distress, where it existed, by the diminution of taxation. With respect to general taxation, he had no doubt but that it might be materially reduced if the House, in compliance with the call and the necessities of the country, would undertake the task in a more energetic and decisive
 1283
 Mr. Hume  said, that he should oppose the Motion for agreeing to the Resolution; and he thought that every hon. Member who voted for the last Motion, for an Address to the Crown praying for a general reduction of the taxation of the country, was bound to support him in this instance. The landed interest, as well as every other class of persons in the community, would be greatly relieved by a general reduction of taxation, for taxation affected all interests alike. The Government had no right to call upon the people of this country to contribute to the support of a sinecure Church Establishment; and he repeated, that those who supported the last Motion were bound to vote with him on the present occasion. He hoped the House would not consent to make any such grant out of the Consolidated Fund for any such purpose as that to which this money was to be applied.
 Mr. Hume  expressed his joy at finding a fixed ground taken for the landed interest, by the hon. Member who had just addressed the House. The hon. Member appeared to think, that the people were favourable to the Corn-laws. That was a question which would soon be tried. The hon. Member too rejoiced in Agricultural Associations, and yet, when the labouring classes formed Unions, they were exclaimed against. The Corn-laws were an odious monopoly. He contended, that the land paid no taxes at all. They made the public pay 6 d d 1265
 Mr. Hume  insisted that it did.
 Mr. Hume  thought, that the right hon. Gentleman who had last addressed the House, had not heard the declaration of the hon. member for Meath (Mr. Henry Grattan), that he was prepared to bring evidence of the first character to disprove the Reports which had issued from Inspectors and other officers of the police. It would be impossible for the hon. Member to do that, if the papers containing those Reports were merely printed and laid upon the Table of the
 1234 l 1235
 Mr. Hume  was extremely happy to hear, that his right hon. friend the Secretary for Ireland had been warranted in what he had said. He was not present at the time, for the matter was concluded just after he entered the House; but he was perfectly confident that his right hon. friend would stand clear in the eyes of Parliament and of the country. He was sure that his right hon. friend had intended it as an act of kindness towards the hon. and learned member for Dublin, meaning, if possible, to allay the irritation of his mind at the renewal of the Coercion Bill. He must say, however, that he regretted that any Cabinet should exist apparently so indecisive and so uncertain as to the course it meant to adopt, as to place a member of the Government in the situation in which his right hon. friend had been placed a few nights ago. He had heard with great surprise, that the renewal of the Coercion Bill was the measure of one individual in the Government, who would have resigned his situation in the Councils of his Majesty had the other members of the Cabinet not concurred with him. This might or might not be true; but he had heard, that it was entirely the act of Lord Grey, and he had
 1224
 Mr. Methuen  felt anxious as the Representative of a large agricultural county to state the reason why he could not support the Motion. He was on all occasions anxious to promote the benefit and advantage of his constituents; but he could not support this Motion because it was in a great measure a party question.— ["No, no."]
 Mr. Fryer  reprobated the course pursued. Nothing could be done to benefit the country unless they left the tiller of the soil a fair proportion of its produce. If the tiller of the land improved the land, it was but fair that he should have the reward. Agriculture was not flourishing. The capital of the farmer had diminished, and the labourers could not be employed. What was the reason of this? This was the question. Ay, the question. Why was it so? Why was it so? Why, because the farmers' contract had been made in paper-money, which had been altered in value by a certain Bill. The landlords had kept the farmers to their bargains.  ["No, no!"] s 1274 l
 Mr. Sheil  said, that the date of the 18th of April was important to be borne in mind as the period at which the Lord-lieutenant had recommended the renewal of the Coercion Bill. The question was, did the Lord-lieutenant change his mind before the Government resolved on renewing the Bill? They relied on the opinion of the Lord-lieutenant in favour of coercion. Did they refuse to act upon his opinion when it was against its continuance? It was evident there was something kept back. There were other documents which must be produced before the House could proceed with the measure. They had some data, but they wanted other data before they could possibly judge of the necessity for renewing the Act. What was the admission made by the right hon. Gentleman? Why, that the Lord-lieutenant had undergone a complete change of opinion in a very short time. Was that true, or was it not true?
 1244
 Mr. Robert Palmer  seconded the Motion. He felt quite convinced that all who were connected with or friendly to agriculture would be strongly impressed with a sense of deep obligation to the noble Marquess for the untiring perseverance and great ability with which he advocated the just interests of the farmer. Representing, as he did, a large agricultural constituency, he was naturally anxious to second the Motion, and also to support it by his voice as well as he was able. So universal was the admission of the distress under which the agriculturist suffered that it must be unnecessary for him to trouble the House with proofs of that fact. That distress had been for the first time, in as far as his experience went, fairly and fully admitted by the Government in the speech delivered by his Majesty at the commencement of the Session. The declaration contained in that Speech, was regarded by the agricultural body at large as an evidence, a promise that the Government intended to afford some considerable relief to the suffering body. He knew that in many parts of the country meetings had been devised for the purpose of petitioning the Crown and the Parliament for relief, and that those meetings had been foregone in consequence of the impression effected by the King's Speech. When that Speech went abroad it was generally hoped, expected, and believed that the Government would afford some positive and considerable relief to the farmer. He was sorry to say, however, that those hopes had been disappointed, and that in consequence great dissatisfaction had arisen in many parts of the country. The noble Lord had, on a previous occasion, admitted the distress of the farmer, and expressed his regret at not being able to relieve it by any large reduction of taxation. But the noble Lord had added, that he had measures to propose which would afford material relief; and that he considered the farmer must be relieved rather through an abatement of local taxation than through that of general taxation. One of the projected measures alluded to by the noble Lord was the commutation of tithes. He certainly thought, that if the commutation of tithes was arranged upon a fair basis, it would be a great advantage
 1259 1260
 Mr. Gisborne  had always pressed upon Government the necessity of removing those taxes which pressed upon the land. The landed interest had been enamoured of its burthens, whilst they were a plea for claiming protection. Now they wished to get rid of their burthens, he should like to know if they would be equally willing to get rid of the protection? He recollected the speech which had been made by the right hon. Baronet, the member for Tamworth, upon the subject of agricultural distress. He had represented himself as taking a walk with the farmer, and in which their attention was called to all subjects around them, and upon an investigation, in the course of their discussion, it was proved, that there was not one article, which the farmer consumed from the manufacturer, that was not more highly protected than agricultural produce. He (Mr. Gisborne) contended, that the smuggler was the great benefiter of mankind. He was the only corrector of absurd and injurious commercial protection.
 Mr. Hodges  said, that at this time he thought the Motion ill-advised, as he considered it improper to disarrange the financial operations of the year, and on that account he would oppose it; but he hoped that before next Session the Government would take into its consideration the necessity of affording some relief to the country by a diminution of the duty on malt.
 Mr. Gillon  agreed with the premises of the right hon. Baronet; but he differed from him as to the conclusion at which he had arrived, and he hoped the right hon. Baronet would reconsider it. He trusted that the right hon. Baronet would be induced to regard our fellow-subjects of Ireland in the same light that he did his own countrymen.
 Mr. O'Reilly  said, that after the conduct which the noble Lord at the head of the Irish Government had pursued in respect to this Bill, he could not place much confidence in the opinion that noble Lord now entertained. As to the authenticity of the Reports of the police of Ireland, he could only say, that in 1821 and 1822 it had been declined to be acted upon by the right hon. Gentleman now presiding over the India Board, when the renewal of the Insurrection Act had been required from him at the time he filled the office of Secretary for Ireland. He (Mr. O'Reilly) had submitted to the right hon. Gentleman, now the member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Goulburn) documents which proved the organization of a complete scheme for the disturbance of the county of Cavan, in order to induce the Government to renew the Insurrection Act, and to secure the calling out of the Yeomanry to be placed upon full-pay. Those documents were now in the Castle of Dublin, and showed the spirit in which information was sent to those charged with the Government of Ireland. He had the letter of the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Control, refusing to act upon the information in this respect, though without any new evidence to inform his mind, the then Lord Lieutenant (the Marquess Wellesley) called for the renewal of the Insurrection Act—a measure which had thus been declined by the then Secretary for Ireland and his predecessor in that office. It was, however, at length given up, as he trusted the Coercion Bill would, after the experience which the last two years had afforded. He concurred with the hon. and learned member for Dublin in desiring, that the documents upon which the renewal of the Coercion Bill was to be
 1236
 Mr. William Peter  said, that though he did not believe that the agricultural distress was either so overwhelming, or so universal as had been described by the noble Marquess, still he feared that it did prevail in many parts of the kingdom, and to a considerable degree. Widely as Gentlemen might differ about cause and remedy, there could be little doubt, he regretted to say, as to the existence of the fact. Various causes had been assigned for it. In some of the petitions then lying on the Table, it had been ascribed to free trade—to the system of bonding and ware-housing foreign corn without payment of duty—and to the great importation of cattle and grain from Ireland. In other petitions, with more reason, the causes stated were taxes, tithes, poor-rates, and currency; and some of these, more especially taxes, currency, and mal-administration of the Poor-laws, might, without doubt, have been, more or less, accessory to the evil. But there was likewise another cause—one which he had not yet heard assigned, but which had much to do with the present distressed state of the agriculturists—he meant a bad system of husbandry—a reluctance on the part of farmers to adopt improvements and to keep pace with the times. No doubt but agriculture had everywhere more or less improved,
 * 1277 s s 1278 1279 l 1280
 Mr. William Roche  said, that the renewal of the Bill was a wanton and uncalled-for act of oppression.
 Sir George Murray  explained, that he had not objected to the Committee of Inquiry on account of the inconvenience to hon. Members remaining in town longer than they otherwise might, but there was no time for the inquiry the hon. and learned Gentleman called for before the Coercion Act would expire.
 Sir George Murray  observed, that the matter became more and more obscure, the more that was said about it by the Government, and the more reason there was for inquiry. One thing he could say, and that with perfect truth, and it was—that if this Bill were for Scotland, as it was for Ireland, nothing would ever induce him to vote for it without inquiry. Certain of the Members of the Government, indeed, had taken credit to themselves because they so long delayed the Motion upon the Coercion Bill, and because no announcement of its renewal had been given, except in the private communication by the right hon. Gentleman to the hon. and learned Gentleman to the effect, that the anxious desire of Government was, if possible, to spare the people of Ireland the infliction of this measure; but see the predicament into which the Administration had brought the House and the people of Ireland by not giving any intimation of their intention to renew the Bill until it was too late for preliminary inquiry as to the fact whether there was a necessity for the renewal or not. Under all the circumstances of the case, he felt bound to follow the example of his right hon. friend, the member for Tamworth; because he saw perfectly that if the Committee of Inquiry were granted, it would be impossible that that measure, or any such measure, could be renewed before the end of the Session. But in so doing, he reserved to himself the right of condemning any portion of the measure which he did not think necessary.
 Sir Robert Peel  exclaimed, "That will quite satisfy me!" He had read what the noble Marquess had written on the 18th of April. He had heard what the
 1253
 Sir Robert Peel  felt himself impressed with the necessity of making a few observations if only out of justice to Lord Wellesley, who was mixed up in their disputes. If correspondence on public matters could always be suppressed by simply endorsing them with the word "private," here would be a very simple way of at once avoiding all inquiry. He trusted in the present case that in justice to the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland his Majesty's Ministers would see the necessity for the production of the correspondence which had been demanded. He had just sent for the printed paper relative to Kilmainham hospital, and he there found copies of letters which bore every internal evidence of having originally been of a private nature. There was one for instance, ending "In haste, ever, my dear Ellice, very truly yours." Now that was very like a friendly private letter. There was another equally free, beginning "Dear Ellice," yet all these letters had been produced without the slightest hesitation.
 Sir Robert Peel  found himself called upon very unexpectedly to give a vote upon a very important question. He had not the least expectation that the papers were to be presented to-day, and, therefore, the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman which stood upon the presentation of the papers, had altogether taken him by surprise. Unprepared, however, as he was, he was unwilling to evade the
 1238 1239 My Lord—I have the honour to enclose, for the consideration of his Majesty's Government, the replies of the provincial inspectors to a question which I proposed to them respecting the renewal of the Act for the more effectual Suppression of Local Disturbances in Ireland, which, if not renewed, will expire in the month of August, 1834. Your Lordship will observe that their opinion is unanimously and powerfully given in favour of the renewal of that Act. It is superfluous for me to add my entire approbation of the opinions which they have expressed, and my most anxious desire that the Act may be renewed. 1240 1241 1242
 Sir Robert Price  did not suppose, that the Motion had been brought forward with any party feelings, but he did not think that any advantage would attend their agreeing to it at the present time. At that late period of the Session it was utterly impossible to repeal any taxes, either local or general; but he thought that it was most satisfactory that his noble friend (Lord Althorp) had promised to consider the Report of the Committee on Agriculture, and see whether he could not grant some relief. Under these circumstances it was hard to press him. He would not go the length of saying, that this was a party question, or brought forward for any party purposes, but he must say, that he looked upon it as an  ad captandum
 Lord Althorp  in reply to the question of the noble Lord (Lord Stormont) on the opposite side of the House as to what were the opinions of the Marquess Wellesley on the 20th of June, in respect to the Court-martial clauses of the present Act, and what had occurred to induce his Excellency to change those opinions, said, that the fact was, that a discussion
 1252
 Lord Althorp  had no intention to complain, admitting as he did that the distress of the landed interest still continued that the subject had upon the present occasion been introduced by the noble Lord to the attention of the House; in making the motion, however, the noble Lord, aware of the difficulty there was of shaping it so as to secure the support of those who on a variety of topics held somewhat conflicting sentiments, had adopted a most prudent course, by submitting it in as general terms as possible; at the same time, that was a mode of procedure to which he, in his experience on the other side of the House, had not unfrequently had recourse, and he was therefore ready to admit its perfect fairness and justice. But it was also easy for him to call upon those who supported this Motion to point out in what way they expected the relief which they demanded could be given. For his own part, he confessed it was extremely difficult, looking at the general taxation of the country, to discover those taxes which peculiarly pressed on the landed interest. He had formerly, as the House was aware stated his intention to apply himself to the examination of all those burthens which peculiarly affected that class; and, having done so, he would state to the House some of those points on which he meant to give relief, although he very much feared it might, in a pecuniary point of view, from the difficulty to which he referred, appear to many of a trifling amount. He was inclined to think, as he had stated more than once, that the severe pressure on the landed interest arose from local more than from general taxation; and that they would obtain relief, not only from the Amendment of the Poor-laws, but also from the commutation of tithes. The noble Marquess
 1261 1262 Chandos 1263
 Lord Althorp : As to the rumour that the noble Earl at the head of the Government had alone been in favour of the Coercion Bill, such statements could only be matters of mere surmise, inasmuch as the individual opinions of members of the Cabinet were, of course, never divulged: it would, therefore, be quite inconsistent with his duty to give the House any information upon the point. When the subject came under discussion, Government would be bound to give adequate reasons, or the House would not adopt the Bill. He could not admit, that the only measure Ministers had endeavoured to carry, with regard to Ireland, was the Coercion Bill, and hon. Members present must be aware that others had been pressed forward. He was sorry to be obliged to answer, that it would not be possible to bring in the Local Courts Bill this Session.
 Lord Althorp  brought up documents indorsed "Papers relating to the state of Ireland." In moving, that they be printed, his Lordship said, that it was due to his right hon. friend, the Secretary for Ireland, (Mr. Littleton), to state, that in the communication he had had with the hon. and learned member for Dublin, (Mr. O'Connell) he had good grounds for saying, that the question regarding the insertion of certain clauses in the Coercion Bill was still under the consideration of the Cabinet. He had also good grounds for expressing his hope, that those clauses would not be inserted in it; but he had no reason whatever to state, and he (Lord Althorp) believed the hon. Member had not stated, that the opinion of Ministers had been made up for
 1223
 Lord Althorp  replied, that it was certainly true, that discussion on the subject had taken place with the Irish Government; but he was now perfectly prepared to state, that the Coercion Bill was brought in with the entire concurrence of Lord Wellesley.
 Lord Althorp  observed, that the remark of the hon. member for Middlesex, that Ministers had done nothing, was not meant by him to apply particularly to Ireland. He (Lord Althorp) had not said, and had not intended to say, that any measures had been applied specifically to Ireland. With regard to the Motion, it was not his design to concede what was required since the papers upon the Table were such as Government thought would justify the course they proposed to pursue. lf, on consideration, it should appear to the House, that the documents did not warrant the renewal of the Coercion Bill, it would be rejected. Upon that test, Ministers were disposed to rest the measure, and, in justification of the renewal of the Coercion Bill, they laid the papers before the House. As to what might have occurred since the 18th of April, the proper time for stating the grounds of any change of opinion would be when the measure came regularly before the House: it would then be shown, that Ministers had not acted in the inconsistent manner which had been supposed. They had most cautiously and anxiously looked at the whole subject; they had duly considered every doubt suggested as to the extent of the measure, in order to ascertain if that extent were necessary; and he was sure, that the country would not blame them for hesitating as long as there was reason for hesitation.
 Lord Stormont  wished to put a straightforward question to his Majesty's Ministers, to which he expected to receive an equally candid and straightforward answer. He wished to inquire what were the sentiments of the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland on the 20th of June? The House had already been informed what were his Excellency's opinions on the 18th of April, and on the 7th of July. At those two dates his Excellency's sentiments were the same, but they appeared to differ from those he entertained at the intermediate date of the 20th of June. He wished, therefore, to ask, for the sake of the reputation of his Majesty's Government—ay, he repeated it, for the sake of the reputation of the Government, for, though that might be a subject of great ridicule to those Members opposite, it was not so to the country at large, who too well knew that when the government of any state lost its reputation it lost its moral strength, and that state must fall. He thought it right that the country should be informed what it was, that had occurred to induce lord Wellesley to change his
 1251
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that if he stood alone he would divide the House against the proposition. It was a curious coincidence that this proposition should be made just as it was proposed to hurry the Bill through the House which took away the liberties of the people of Ireland. He could tell the noble Lord, that his plan could not succeed if carried, nor should it succeed, for hon. Members would certainly take the more inconvenient course of moving the Motions which they contemplated by way of Amendments upon the Orders of the Day. Formerly motions always took precedence, but at length three days were appropriated to Orders, and now the remaining two days were sought to be added, though on those days when the Motions to be brought forward were unpalatable to the Government, the House had been counted out. The Government whipper-in had then stood at the door of the House to prevent Members from entering, and thus even now the House was deprived of its old constitutional mode of proceeding. He hoped either that the Motion would be abandoned by the noble Lord, or that the House would reject it.
 Mr. Tennyson  said, the Motion would interfere with the ancient and undoubted
 1297
 Mr. Secretary Rice  said, that much convenience would result from hon. Members not pressing motions which could lead to no practical effect. As to the imputation, that this Motion was made to favour the Government, other Members had as much interest in the Orders of the Day being admitted to precedence as the Government. For his own part, he was indifferent whether the noble Lord's Motion was carried, or hon. Gentlemen, in their discretion, consented to give way to the public convenience.
 Mr. Baring  objected to the Motion. As yet the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had not brought forward his Budget, and in giving a general notice the noble Lord had fixed on no particular day, and he had in consequence been unable to move for certain Papers relative to the mode of conducting the financial business of the country. He had asked the noble Lord for those papers, but the noble Lord thought it his duty to refuse them.
 Mr. Secretary Rice  said, the House had decided that this was a fit subject for the inquiry of a Committee, but there was still the question before them as to the means by which the object was to be effected. He would, in the first instance, ask whether, by the course pursued at present, their constituents did not obtain a competent knowledge of the votes of Members of that House? In all important questions the divisions were published, and they were generally accurate. When they were not so, he knew that Members were
 1303
 Mr. Kennedy  thought the thanks of the country eminently due to the hon. member for St. Alban's, for his zeal in bringing this subject before the House, and trusted he would persevere and bring it to a happy conclusion. Whoever had seen the facility with which names were taken in such large assemblies as the halls of Lincoln's Inn and the Middle Temple, could have no doubt of the practicability of the recommendation of the Committee. He trusted the House would agree to the measure, and carry it into effect, as he considered it only next in importance to Triennial Parliaments.
 Mr. Wynn  opposed the plan. He thought, firstly, that it was impracticable to any good purpose; and secondly, that the attempt to carry it into effect would only cause an increase in the number of divisions, and the consequent obstruction of public business.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  wished the consideration of the question to be put off until next Session.
 The Attorney General  said, that he could hardly believe the hon. Member was serious in submitting such a Motion under existing circumstances, and at a time when there were so many practical measures waiting for discussion. At all events, he would enter into no debate upon the subject. He would merely observe, that it was a gross mistake to suppose that members of the British Royal Family were prevented by the Royal
 1305
 Mr. O'Connell  thought, that the Royal Marriage Act operated oppressively, and ought to be repealed. It did not prevent disputed claims, and, in fact, a serious case of that nature at present existed. He believed, that the operation of the Act was much more limited than was generally supposed, and that it did not touch marriages made out of England.
 Mr. Hawes  hoped, that the independent Members of the House would unite, and work out one good measure at least during their prolonged session. He seconded the Motion.
 Mr. Forster  proposed a clause to regulate the investment of the funds of Friendly Societies.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  repelled the charge, that the Government had obtained the counting-out of the House on the two occasions which had been alluded to. On both occasions he had been present, and with respect to one—he meant the Motion of the hon. member for Liverpool—he felt deep regret, that the discussion had been so interrupted, because it allowed the statement of the hon. member for Liverpool to go forth to the public without a reply on the part of the Government.
 Mr. Baines  had been informed by a gaoler in a populous district, situate in the county of York, that out of 10,000 prisoners who had been committed to his charge, not one member of a Friendly Society was ever to be found among their number. This he considered a very striking instance of the great advantage which had resulted from these Societies. It appeared to him that a facility would be given by the Bill to the principle upon which these Societies were founded, and he should therefore give it his cordial support.
 Mr. Grote  hoped the House would not be induced to negative the Motion of the hon. Gentleman. It was unjust to the people of England to say, that when the votes were laid before them they would not have intelligence enough to understand on what principle their Representatives had acted. The Reform Bill having passed, the people should be placed in the best possible situation as regarded their means of obtaining accounts of information as to the votes of their Representatives, in order that they might be able to form a proper estimate of the claims of the candidates who might offer themselves. As to the principle of the Motion, he was strongly in its favour; but as regarded the means by which it was proposed to carry that principle into effect, he spoke with considerable diffidence, because the experiment had yet to be made.
 Mr. Robinson  objected to the Motion, though he hoped, as it had been submitted to the House, that hon. Members whose names appeared with notices of Motions on the Order-book, would be induced to suspend them. Rather than call for so fatal a precedent against the privileges of the House as would ensue from the adoption of this proposition, he trusted the noble Lord would, after this conversation, consent to withdraw it. If not, he should feel it his duty on principle to vote against the Motion.
 Mr. Buckingham  had suffered from the House having been counted out; but he would not complain, though he conceived it to be a mean course of defeating or evading the discussion of a question. He deprecated such a practice on important motions such as that submitted by the hon. member for Liverpool on the subject of the East India trade, and that with reference to the currency. With respect to the Motion now before the House he should oppose it.
 Mr. Wilks  said, that those hon. Members who were desirous to relieve the Friendly Societies from the restraints under which they now laboured would feel this clause worthy their support. These institutions were of the greatest importance to the country, and were well calculated to counteract many of the evils of the Poor-laws.
 Mr. Hume  said, that if the House should adopt the Resolution proposed by the noble Lord, it would preclude the possibility of hon. Members bringing forward any new matter, however important, because the Bills which his Majesty's Government now had before the House would occupy every hour of the time which yet remained of the present Session. He hoped the House would hesitate before it adopted the Resolution, as it would drive hon. Members to the inconvenient alternative of bringing forward their Motions as Amendments upon the Orders of the Day. It had been very convenient for the Government to have the House counted out upon any discussion that was unpalatable to them, and the adoption of this proposition would enable his Majesty's Government to defer bringing in their Bills for the future until towards the end of the Session, and then get some Member to assist them by moving such a proposition as the present. For his own part, he would rather that the House should sit for the next two months than
 1296
 Mr. Hume  considered the question of very great importance. Lists had been made out for a considerable period; but hitherto, for want of some authorized system, it had been done very partially and incorrectly. They had been prepared with a great deal of trouble, and had occasioned much loss of time to those Members who had undertaken the task of furnishing them. He himself had for many years taken as much trouble to make out lists as any Member in the House. Indeed, it was only within the last twelve months that, having been anxious to get other Members to attend to the matter, he had given to it comparatively less attention. He hoped that no man who came to this House was afraid of its being known how he voted. Every Member ought to be prepared to defend his vote, be it in accordance with or against the views of his constituents. He believed, that the effect of publishing the divisions would be to cause a fuller attendance of Members, though the limited attendance, deficient as were the present accommodations of the House, was rather in favour of those who were the more hard-working Members, and who regularly discharged their duties there. They ought, however, to have regard to what was the intention of the Reform Act, which unquestionably was, that every Member should be at his post. His opinion was, that till a new House of Commons was built, it would be impossible that divisions could be taken in the manner that was most desirable. Several plans had been submitted to the Committee, and only one of them met with unanimous approbation; but it was impossible to carry it into effect for want of more room. According to this plan
 1301
 Mr. Bernal , finding that the opinion of the Committee was against him would not divide on the clause. He had discharged his duty in stating his objections to the Bill.
 Mr. Bernal  took that opportunity to make several objections to the general principle of the Bill. Few subjects were more difficult to legislate upon than that of Friendly Societies; scarcely any two societies were agreed among themselves as to the rules and regulations by which they should be governed. All which the Legislature had to do with the question was, to see that the operation of the rules which were made by them was not injurious to the rest of the community. Several Representatives of Friendly Societies had waited upon him on the subject of the Bill, and the great objection they entertained to this clause was, that it proposed a separate account should be kept of all monies expended by the Friendly Societies for any other purposes than affording relief in cases of sickness and
 1293
 Mr. Ord  concurred in the observation of the hon. Member, that it was desirable, as far as possible, to leave the management of these Societies entirely in their own hands. The principle upon which this Bill proceeded was, to relax some of the provisions of the 10th of George 4th. Societies which were willing to remain according to their present constitution would not be affected by this Bill; but if they wished to enjoy the advantages of suing and being sued in the name of their officers, they would become subject to this Bill. He could not, however, consent to abandon the clause.
 Mr. Ward , on bringing up the Report of the Committee, appointed to consider the best mode of taking authentic Lists of the Divisions in the House, after recapitulating the plans which had fallen under the consideration of the Committee, and been rejected by them, proceeded to explain the mode which the Committee recommended for the adoption of the House. As long as the Members met in the building which was at present appropriated to their Debates, it was impossible that the plan which the Committee thought the best could be carried into execution. That plan was, that the ayes and the noes should both leave the body of the House, and retire into rooms at the opposite ends of it, and as they re-entered the House the name of each Member might be declared aloud by one of the clerks of the House stationedat each door, and taken down by a person. But as this method was at present impracticable, the Committee thought it best, that those Members who were presumed to be the minority should, as was the rule at present, go into the lobby, and then the names of those in the House having been taken down, the names of the minority should be collected and written down. He need say nothing of the inconvenience resulting from the present method of preparing these lists. There appeared in the newspapers a constant succession of protests from Members against their inaccuracy, and he had sometimes seen as many as eight or nine letters in one day, to correct the mistakes that had been made. The editor of  The Times 1300 usque ad nauseam
 Mr. Ward  then moved, "That the plan proposed by the Committee be acted upon before the close of the present Session, and that clerks be appointed for the purpose of carrying it into effect."
 Sir John Wrottesley  concurred in the sentiments expressed by the right hon. member for Lambeth. Parliament had, however, already sat five months, and in that period sufficient time had been given for hon. Members to bring forward any measures of importance. With respect to not making or rather counting out the House, he begged to say, that this step had last week been taken under peculiar circumstances. The House would remember, that the right hon. Gentleman who filled the chair had sat on the previous day from 12 to 3 o'clock, and again from 5 till half-past 4 o'clock in the morning; and though the right hon. Gentleman would be the last to complain, yet the House ought to pay some deference to his feelings, health, and convenience.
 Sir Robert Peel  was against the plan altogether. He would leave every man who gave his vote according to his conscience to state to his constituents, if he pleased, what his vote was on any particular occasion. As to the liability of being called on by his constituents to inform them as to such vote, if the principle of the Motion now before the House was a good one, there ought to be a division on every question on which there was not a perfect unanimity of opinion. He thought that the tendency of the proposed plan would be to multiply divisions. Thus, if 200 took one view of a question, and only ten the other view, there must be a division and a publication of the list, that the constituents of the ten virtuous patriots might know how they voted on the particular motion. He thought that most erroneous inferences would frequently be drawn from records of the names unaccompanied by explanation. What could the constituents understand from the mere statement of the Motion according to the forms of the House? For example, they would sometimes find it recorded thus:—That the words proposed to be left out stand part of the question; the "ayes" voted in this way, and the "noes" in the other way. It would be necessary for Members to explain the grounds on which they gave their votes. It did not appear to him that they were in a situation to adopt any of the plans submitted to the Committee. The first was, that the names of all the Members should be called over; this the Committee objected to, on account of the loss of time that would be occasioned.
 1302 Ward
 Sir Robert Peel  did not think it unreasonable that, in the present state of public business, some course should be pursued by which the attention of the House should be devoted to it. He thought the public looked to the disposal of the Orders of the Day with quite as deep an interest as on any other description of public business, though no one ought to be prevented from bringing forward any Motion which might be important. This, however, ought to be left to the judgment, common sense, and good feeling of hon. Members themselves, for he could not believe that any good could result from such a regulation as was proposed. The Order-book at present contained so many notices for each night,
 1298
 Lord Morpeth , in reply, said, that he really found nothing so difficult to collect as the sense of the House. He found that every Member felt the inconvenience which attended the fact of Motions having precedence, but was unwilling in his own case to give way. Whatever motives might be assigned to him, he had no wish but to consult the convenience of the House, and it was his opinion, after the experience of this and the last Session, that some such measure was absolutely necessary to expedite public business. As to his accidental co-operation with the Government, as the hon. and learned member for Dublin was pleased to term
 1299
 Lord Morpeth , in moving the Resolution of which he had given notice, that for the remainde rof the Session, Orders of the Day should have precedence of notices, said that in bringing forward a Motion for the express purpose of saving the time of the House, he should not address it at any length; indeed the subject was one which, at this period of the Session, required little to be said in its support; however as he was determined to take the sense of the House upon it, he would briefly state the grounds on which he brought it forward. In the first place, for a precedent, he would refer to a similar motion which he proposed, and which the House adopted, last Session. Then as to the necessity for such a Motion, he thought that that was obvious. Whatever differences of opinion might exist as to the change that had taken place in the Constitution of the House, it would be agreed by all that it stood upon a totally different footing from formerly. Then the conducting of the whole business was vested in the leader of the two parties into which the House was divided. But now the House was divided into various and different parties, and there were numbers of stragglers—he meant not the phrase in an offensive sense—who considered themselves amenable to no party banner at all. Notices without number, and of every shade of variety, appeared on the books, not representing the concentrated views of a party, but the individual opinions and sentiments of the respective members who had given such notices. The result was, that now, approaching the dog-days,
 1295
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the statements which had been just made had been received by the House in the manner that the candid statement of an hon. Gentleman ought, and if any person was to blame for the course which the right hon. Gentleman had taken—a course dictated by his desire to obtain tranquillity for his unfortunate country—if any person, he repeated, was to blame, he would infinitely prefer that a double share of the blame should be thrown upon him, than that any should be cast upon the right hon. Gentleman. He was now convinced, indeed it was impossible that he should not be,
 1340 1341
 Mr. Littleton :—After the statement which has been just made by my noble friend, I am sure the House will extend its indulgence to me while I address a few observations to it. No individual in this House was ever placed in a more painful situation than I now find myself placed in. I have committed two errors. I have committed, first, the error of having a communication with the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, without the sanction of the head of his Majesty's Government; and I have committed the further and greater error, in placing confidence in one who has proved himself so ill-deserving of it. I must say, however, that nothing is easier, after such a thing has led to an unfortunate result, than to look back and discover the course which it would have been more dignified and wise to follow. I am now perfectly aware that the wisest thing for my own character and interests—perhaps the wisest thing for the interests of my friends in the Government, would have been, that I should have resigned my office the very first moment it was communicated to me that the hopes and sincere belief I had entertained that the clauses in question in the Coercion Bill would have been left out could not possibly be fulfilled. I never in my life shall forget the emotion of regret I experienced on receiving that communication; but having reflected that my resignation upon that point, and at such a time, might have powerfully influenced the conduct of others, and probably might produce a
 1339
 Mr. Hume  said, that he would only address a few words to the House. There was no man in the House that could be more seriously sorry at what had occurred, and at hearing the statement of the noble Lord and the right hon. Gentleman. He alluded especially to the statement of the noble Lord, that he had withdrawn from the Government of the country. Though he (Mr. Hume) had been as zealous as
 1342
 Mr. Hume  said, that it was impossible that any Administration could be formed otherwise than on those liberal principles which the noble Lord opposite entertained. Attempts might be made, but he was much mistaken in the feelings, both of this House and of the country, if he did not think it was utterly impossible at the present moment to saddle upon the country a Tory Administration. He could not but again express his regret for the situation in which the country was placed.
 Lord Althorp  said, that in his first address to the House, he had merely referred to his own case, and to the course which his right hon. friends had taken in conjunction with him in regard to the Coercion Bill; but he ought to have stated, what he believed Lord Grey had already stated, or was at that moment stating in the other House that in consequence of his own retirement from office, the Administration was at an end.
 Lord Althorp  rose and said:—Sir, having been placed in a position which renders it necessary that I should state to the House the reasons which have governed my conduct, I asked for and obtained his Majesty's permission to make that statement to the House. When the renewal of the Coercion Bill was first brought under the consideration of the Cabinet, I felt it my duty to concur in the renewal of it, with the omission only of those clauses of it relating to Courts-martial. I hope I need not say, that I did so with the greatest reluctance, and that nothing would have induced me to do so but my conviction of the absolute necessity of the case. Afterwards private and confidential communications, however, from the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland to individual members of the Government, brought the subject again under the consideration of the Cabinet in the week before last. I may as well say, that it was at this time that my right hon. friend, the Secretary for Ireland, suggested to me the propriety of telling the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, that the question was not yet finally decided, and that the Bill was still under consideration. I saw no harm in this, if it proceeded no further; and I am bound to say, in my own justification, that I begged my right hon. friend to use extreme caution in his communication, and by no means to commit himself in what he said. As I have said, these private and confidential communications from the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland to an individual member of the Cabinet brought the subject again before the Cabinet the week
 1337 1338
 Lord Palmerston  presented a copy of this Treaty. In moving that it do lie on the Table, the noble Lord said, he felt it his duty to state, that the delay that had arisen in the presentation of the Treaty had been occasioned entirely by an accidental omission in it, and that it was not in the slightest degree imputable to any hesitation on the part of the Portuguese government to ratify the Treaty, or to any indisposition to send it at the earliest moment it could to this country.
 Mr. Baring  certainly thought, that in the present peculiar situation of the House, it would be more consistent with the dignity of the Crown, and more advantageous for the discharge of the public business, that they should adjourn for a few days. It was due to the Crown, as well as to the dignity of the House itself, and was also matter of public convenience, that such a course should be taken.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  should neglect his duty if he did not express his opinion on this occasion, as to the principles of the five individuals who had retired from the Government. He thought, that as representatives of the people, they were bound to do so; and that it would be only acting fairly towards the Government to express their opinions on the matter. They ought to take a part in it; he certainly would take his part—he would express his opinion. The English members and the Irish members, and the Scotch members, should do the same. He begged to say, that he would give his support to those individuals, whether five or six, who had resigned office upon such principles. As one of the representatives of the people, he felt it his duty to give his support to those who had retired from office upon liberal and extended principles. A colour should be imparted to the Government that was about to be formed by the expression of the opinion of that House. He could not avoid expressing his deep regret, that his right hon. friend the Secretary for Ireland, had been obliged to resign. He thought that his right hon. friend had been hardly and unjustly dealt with. He had often opposed the noble Lord, but he had always done so with regret. He trusted, that whether it was settled that the House should sit to-morrow, or that it should adjourn to Monday, it would not separate without giving a cheer for the five individuals who had retired from office. He trusted, that the sentiments of the five individuals to whom he had alluded, would influence the formation of whatever new Cabinet was to be constituted, and that that Cabinet would be framed upon liberal principles, without which it would be vain to hope to conciliate or govern Ireland.
 Mr. Warburton  seconded the Motion.
 Mr. Hume  said, that he had last night given that notice, after the statement made by the noble Lord; and conceiving that there being no responsible Minister to conduct the business of the House, and that the entire Cabinet had resigned, it was his intention at the time to bring forward such a Motion; but the information he had since received, led him to think that a Motion of the kind at the present moment, would be premature; and he, therefore, would beg to withdraw it for the present, without fixing any date for bringing it on. At the same time, he thought that, under existing circumstances, and with no responsible Minister in the place of the noble Lord to conduct the Government business of the House, the House should not proceed with any business of importance. The House, he was sure, would agree with him; therefore, that it would be better not to meet to-morrow, but that after disposing of the ordinary business to-night, they should adjourn to Monday next. He would therefore move, that the House, at its rising, do adjourn to Monday next.
 The Speaker  said, that under existing circumstances, he supposed hon. Members who had notices on the book, would put them off to some future day. He observed, that there was a notice (No. 11) which had been given by the hon. member for Middlesex, respecting the state of the nation, in reference to the present crisis. Perhaps it would be the pleasure of the House to proceed with that Motion first.
 Lord Althorp  did not rise to say anything in reference to the Motion; he merely rose to make one observation in relation to what had fallen from his hon. friend, the member for Middlesex. His hon. friend had stated, that there was no responsible Minister in the House. What he had said in the statement which he had the honour of submitting to the House last night, was, that though he had resigned his office, he, of course, held it until his successor was appointed; and that he should consider himself responsible for the conducting, and bound to conduct., the ordinary business of the House.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  presented a petition from Claremont Chapel, Pentonville, against the Church-rates Bill; also a petition to the same effect from the parishes of St. Andrew, Holborn, and St. George the Martyr. The latter petitioners stated, that they would not object to the principle of the Bill, provided an equalization of the land-tax was first made throughout the country, but without such equalization the Bill would operate most oppressively on the parishes whose affairs were intrusted entirely to their own hands, because the assessments under which the land-tax is collected have been in force ever since the reign of William and Mary, and as they were confirmed by the statute of 38 Geo. 3rd, c. 5, passed in the year 1798, which made the land-tax perpetually subject to redemption, no alteration could be made in them except by Parlia-
 24 l l s d l l l s l s l s l l l l l s s d s d s 25
 Lord Althorp : Irise, Sir, to move, that the House at its rising shall adjourn to Thursday next. I have to state to the House, that my noble friend, Lord Melbourne, has received the commands of his Majesty to lay before him a plan for forming an Administration. That being the case, I hope the House will feel that the same reasons, which on a former occasion, induced them to make a temporary adjournment, ought also to induce them to consent to my Motion for adjournment to Thursday next, by which time the state of the Administration will be laid before the King.
 Colonel Evans  said, that he wished to make one or two observations. He hoped that the Government now formed would, by proceeding more consonantly with the feelings of the people, acquire strength from possessing their confidence; but the noble Lord had said, that the principle would be the same as that of Lord Grey's Administration: if so, it would not fulfil the just expectations of the people by carrying forward the improvements consequent upon the Reform of Parliament. He had chiefly risen to advert to a cir-
 61 62
 Mr. Tennyson  concurred in what had been said by his hon. and gallant friend on the subject of addresses, and on the manner in which they controlled in a degree the prerogative of the King. The noble Lord had declared, that the principle of the present Government would be to carry forward reasonable reforms, while it maintained the just rights of the Crown and supported the ancient institutions of the country; and he (Mr. Tennyson) deemed it his duty to give confidence, in the first instance, to any Ministry his Majesty might think fit to appoint. On this occasion, he was satisfied, that the noble Lord would not have consented to appear in the place he occupied, had he not felt assured that he was associated with men who would act upon the principles he had avowed. He trusted, therefore, that such hon. Members as had signed the address, would be prepared to support the noble Lord and his colleagues, until they saw a clear departure from the plan upon which they said they were resolved to proceed. Nothing could be more satisfactory to the nation than the general co-operation of all liberal men to accomplish the general good; and whenever a great principle was admitted, he hoped that people would not be too critical in scanning the particular mode in which it was carried into execution. Let every Member be actuated by a strong desire to do his duty to his constituents, and by an earnest wish to obtain those benefits which the Reform Bill was calculated to produce. He especially exhorted his hon. and gallant friend (Colonel Evans) to concur with him in the course he was determined to pursue—namely, to place confidence in the present Administration, because, by the noble Lord, that confidence was chiefly deserved.
 Mr. Baring  said, in looking at the course his Majesty's Government was likely to pursue, he could not help expressing his apprehension, that the security the country possessed, that his Majesty's Ministers would not go to extremes,
 69 ["No no!"] 70 71 l., l.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, unlike the hon. member for Essex, who had lugged in head and shoulders, matters on which to found complaints against the present Government, he rose to express the heartfelt gratification he derived from hearing the noble Lord opposite announce that he was to introduce the Bill which he called a
 72 73 74
 Mr. Gisborne continued. —The real question as to the present Government was whether they were prepared resolutely to carry the measures which the country required, and which the people loudly called for, or whether they intended to continue the same course of half measures and quarter measures which the late Administration had pursued?
 Mr. Baring  interrupting the noble Lord: Really the noble Lord is quoting what never said. I did not state that I had been devoted through life to the noble Lord. What I said was, that I was an humble follower of the noble Lord in party politics, up to the period of the change when the Reform Bills were introduced. I did not say that I was devoted through life to the noble Lord; because, for several years past, the measures of the noble Lord have been such as I could not approve.
 Mr. Baring : Blame appears to have been imputed to Me, because I could not concur with those extraordinary measures of change which were brought forward by the noble Earl. Now, I wish to state, that I never at any one period of my life voted for any general measures of Reform.
— (laughter.)
 Mr. Fysche Palmer  entreated the hon. Baronet and the House to pause before proceeding further with the measure. He would trouble the house only for a very few minutes, and that to bring to its attention a matter of great importance. The whole amount of the capital embarked was nearly 3,000,000 l.,
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  said, that after
 84
 Mr. Wilks  hoped that, on the 17th of July, at so late a period of the Session, and in the heat of the dog-days, the hon. Baronet would not press the Bill. Independently of this, there was another reason for delay. The longer this Bill remained before the public, the more they found that the real feeling of the public was against it, and that they had suffered themselves to be carried away by an interested and prejudiced clamour, and bad been acting under delusions, which further explanation had tended to remove. The Beer Act had effected great good. It had increased the consumption of malt, and it had promoted the temperance of the country. He asserted, that such was the fact, and that the feeling of the country was against the Bill.
 Mr. Gisborne  said, the proposition was most unsatisfactory, and would render the measure extremely partial. He was anxious to see the sale of beer as free as the sale of tea, or any other article; but he was also anxious to see a high license imposed for selling it to be drunk on the premises. He must, therefore, oppose the present Bill.
 Mr. Tennyson  said, he should be glad
 85
 Mr. Hume  regretted to see the attempt that was making to restore monopoly. He was never so well satisfied with any measure of the Duke of Wellington's Administration as with that which laid the Beer-trade open. Yet now they were going to try back, and return to their old lair. Let them, at least, wait for the Report of the Committee on Drunkenness. Perhaps that Report might point out a mode of getting rid of what the right hon. Gentleman called "an unmixed evil," without depriving the poor man who happened to have twopence in his pocket from indulging himself in the purchase of a glass of beer. It was well known, that there had been a great increase in this country during the last twenty years in the consumption of spirits, in consequence of the heavy tax that had been laid on malt, by which the production of good and cheap beer had been prevented. The consequence was, that the people had been driven to drink gin. The tendency of the Beer Bill was, to diminish this evil; and now the House was called upon to re-establish it. He perfectly agreed with the hon. member for North Derbyshire, that beer ought to be allowed to be sold as freely in shops as sugar, or any other article of necessary consumption. He wished the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, could
 86 s. d.,
 Lord Althorp  said, that his Majesty's Government had by no means been ignorant or unmindful of the evils which the Beer Bill had occasioned during the last three years; and, when the hon. Baronet took the subject up, they were exceedingly glad of the circumstance, and promised him their support. There could be no doubt that the mischief occasioned by the Beer-houses was more extensively and sensibly felt in rural districts than in towns. His hon. friend, the member for Middlesex, had recommended him to take off half the Malt-tax. His answer was, that he should be very happy to do so, if the state of the revenue would justify such a step. No doubt, the repeal of all taxes would be a great relief to the country; but, in the present state of its circumstances, the continuation of taxation was indispensable. It was certainly desirable that means should be devised of counteracting the evils which the Beer Bill had created, not in towns, but in rural districts. It was not law that was wanted so much as the power to carry the existing law into execution. The existing law was as severe as any one could wish it to be. He confessed, that when the Beer Bill was originally brought in, he had not expected that so many evils would result from it. Finding, however, that those evils were numerous and serious, he should certainly support the Bill, the tendency of which was to diminish them.
 Mr. Warburton  wished to explain the amount of the concession offered by the hon. Baronet. The number of parishes in England was about 15,500, and of those there were 15,262, which had each a population under 5,000; so that the
 87
 Mr. Pease  thought the concession underrated, for it would not only affect parishes, but also towns and cities. In York, for instance, there were twenty-four parishes, and of those only two had a population exceeding 500 each, and yet the whole would be exempt from the operation of the Bill. He thought the Bill might be made beneficial to all parties, and therefore he wished to proceed with it.
 Mr. Baring  hoped the House would confine the discussion to the main provisions of the measure, and not then enter upon the details, which were matter for the Committee. He was decidedly favourable to a free trade in the sale of beer, and if he thought the measure before the House would essentially interfere with that, he should oppose it, much as he was convinced, that the evils of the Beer-shops required removal. It was not in the large towns, but in the rural districts, that those evils were felt; and he thought the proposition of his hon. friend (Sir Edward Knatchbull) would remove the only valid objection which had been urged against the Bill. If they did not speedily exert themselves to put down those sinks of iniquity, the Beer-shops, it would be in vain to look to the rural population of England, otherwise than as a class rapidly declining in all those qualities which in former years placed them so high in the scale of society.
 Sir George Phillips  declared his conviction, that from all which had come to his knowledge, the Beer-shops had been productive of very serious evils. He read a letter which he had received from a master-manufacturer in the country, stating, that out of one hundred and seventy persons above the age of twenty-one, who worked in his factory, there were not ten who were not in the habit of visiting those Beer-houses, and there spending their time and their money in vice and debauchery. He defended the hon. Baronet from the unfounded charge which had been brought
 88
 Mr. Tower  observed, that many persons who had been brought to punishment for criminal offences, had confessed that the idea of committing those offences had originated in Beer-shops.
 Mr. Parrott  said, that although almost all the Magistrates in his neighbourhood condemned the Beer-bill, he could not concur with them in opinion. He believed that the merits of that measure were not duly appreciated. He was sorry, not only that a vulgar clamour had been excited against the Bill out of doors, but that that vulgar clamour seemed to make too great an impression in that House. He certainly did not approve generally of the measures of the Duke of Wellington's Administration, but he certainly thought that in passing the Beer-bill, they had passed one of the best measures that had ever received the sanction of the Legislature. Of course he did not impute to the hon. Baronet any such motive; but he was persuaded that the proposed Bill would be exceedingly injurious to the interests of agriculture. He hoped, therefore, that he would consent to withdraw it, and to give up all legislation on the subject. Out of thirty-six parishes where he had traced its operation, he had heard but of one case of delinquency which could in any way be traced to the Beer-shops. To the mode by which alone, in the hon. Baronet's Bill, the certificates could be obtained by the keeper of Beer-shops, he thought that great objection applied, that it might be turned to political purposes.
 Mr. Hall Dare  differed  toto cœ 89
 Major Beauclerk  declared his intention of opposing the Bill in every way that he could. They passed laws of such a nature as to prevent a poor man brewing his own beer; they thus compelled him to leave his own home, and resort to the Beer-shop, and then they came forward with an attempt still further to abridge his enjoyments. In his opinion, the sale of beer ought to be free and unrestricted; it ought to be vended like tea, sugar, or any other article of general consumption.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, the hon. Member had talked about the "vulgar clamour" which had been raised against the Bill. What did he mean by vulgar clamour?—who were these vulgar clamourers? Were they the judges of the land—the grand jurors of the counties—the magistracy—or were they to be found in that humble class more immediately interested in a reformation of the abuses of the present system? The question before the House, he begged leave to say, was one, not of principle, but of fact. They had now full experience of the working of the system which sprung up under the present Act. The experiment had been tried—it had signally failed—enormous abuses had been engendered; and it was the duty of the House at once to eradicate them.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  proposed, that the second clause be omitted, and that the
 90 l.,
 Mr. Warburton  objected to that part of the clause which had been put, for rendering it obligatory, that in all cases the annual certificate should he signed by six rate-payers. He moved, that three, instead of six, should be inserted in the clause.
 Mr. Lynch  supported the Motion, and testified to the great distress in the counties of Galway and Mayo. They only asked for employment of the people. The funds laid out for such purposes were always repaid to Government, while the people were kept tranquil and the country much improved.
 Mr. Littleton  did not mean to deny that great distress existed in sonic parts, especially in Thurles; but he would deny, on the authority of official communications made to him, that it existent to the extent stated.—(The right hon. Secretary here read several letters on the subject, among the rest one from Major Miller, who was despatched by Government to report on the general state of the distress in Tipperary, to show that the distress was not so extensive as it had been represented). Government was not in the habit of advancing large grants of money without the concurrence of Parliament, though they were in the habit of extending relief partially and occasionally whenever a pressing case was made out. In the present instance Government had already made inquiries, and intended to go to every fair extent in affording aid. He was favourable to the encouragement of public works, and would recommend the completion of certain public works in Mayo and Galway, which, if not completed, would soon go to ruin, and which would cost only 13,000 l. 83
 Mr. Henry Grattan  felt, that the new Ministry, as far as the measures contemplated towards Ireland were regarded, instead of throwing that country into the hands of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, would, by acting as they proposed, rather take Ireland out of the hands of that hon. and learned Gentleman. He denied the statement made by a noble Duke in the other House, that more blood was shed under the late Administration than that of any which preceded it, and contended that more blood had been shed in Ireland at the period when the noble Duke himself had been Secretary for that country. He would caution the Government not to take the advice of their false friends, the Tories, who would support convulsion. He was hostile to convulsion and separation, and the next best thing he would do was, to oppose the Tories. Not long ago parties of armed men paraded within a few yards of the houses of two Magistrates, and fired shots in perfect security, as they were Kerrymen. To such a system he would not wish to return. He hoped the Government would, if possible, carry the Tithe Bill this Session, or, if not, that they would adopt the suggestion of Mr. O'Connell, and bring in a short Bill. Something was necessary to secure the peace of the country, and, for his part, he would sacrifice a portion of his property to attain that object. He gave the hon. Gentlemen opposite credit for what they had done, and though he did not think it proper to sign a certain paper, he still might concur in some degree in its sentiments. He now felt satisfied that he had clone better in not signing the paper, as the support which he hoped their measures would enable him to give them would come with a better grace.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, he should not have said a word upon the present occasion, had it not been for the unmeasured attack which had been directed against his hon. friend (Mr. Baring) by the noble Lord. His hon. friend was accused of having deserted the party of Earl Grey. Yet, in his (Sir Henry Hardinge's) opinion, the circumstances under which his hon. friend had seceded from the party of the late Administration redounded highly to his honour. As soon as he was induced to consider that the policy of the noble Earl's Administration threatened danger to the State, he withdrew his support from them, and that was at the very time when the party he had hitherto been connected with had come into the possession of power. The conduct of the noble Lord had been very different. The noble Lord had been in the Administration of Lord Liverpool, Mr. Canning, Earl Ripon, and the Duke of Wellington; he had been with every Tory Administration up to the formation of the present Ministry; and, under these circumstances, his hon. friend need not fear any parallel with the noble Lord. After the noble Lord had been twenty years a Tory, and had approved of Tory principles, he ought not to be angry when he was reminded that he had not always belonged to the Whig party. Perhaps the term of "pure old Whig" might not exactly suit him either. He might, therefore, be called "a juvenile Whig, a pure juvenile Whig." With respect to the formation of the present Government, the only alteration he could find in it was, that they had got rid of Earl Grey, the leader of the Whig party, who was made the sole victim, and went out without a single follower from amongst all his recent associates and supporters. The noble Earl went out of office because he could not command the co-operation of his colleagues in office to pass a Bill which the noble Earl (Grey) considered necessary for the tranquillity of Ireland; and the Noble Lord (Althorp), who had himself resigned office, now consented to return to it. It was not the proper time to discuss the principle of that measure; but when the Coercion Bill was brought in, he should he prepared to do so.
 Mr. Hume  thought the principle of the right hon. Secretary was a good one. But the object of the hon. Member for Tipperary would be gained if Government interfered.
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  said, he heard with satisfaction that part of the noble Lord's statement, in which he, who so recently announced the dissolution of an Administration, now informed the House that a Ministry was re-established, and
 63 64 65 * * 66 67
 Mr. Sheil,  in reply, expressed a hope that Government would institute a thorough inquiry. He also hoped, that the benevolent intentions of the Secretary for Ireland would be put in operation, and with those feelings he would beg leave to withdraw his Motion.
 Mr. Sheil  rose to draw the attention of the House to the distress existing in the county of Tipperary. The present case was an urgent one,
 81 l. 82
 Mr. Gisborne  was one of those who was anxious that the present Cabinet should be able to maintain their position in the country, and he trusted they would do so by working out the principles upon which they had been supported. The Administration had suffered successive reductions and alterations, and had at last assumed the character of a pure old Whig party.
 Mr. William Peter  defended Ministers from the attacks which had been made upon them. In spite of the sneers and taunts of the hon. Gentleman opposite, he would maintain that a purer, a more enlightened Administration had never swayed the destinies of tins great Empire—an Administration which had done so much to diminish the burthens, and to extend the liberties of the country. They had been true to their principles, and faithful to their professions. What had been their pledges on taking office? Their pledges were Peace, Economy, and Reform; and honestly and nobly had they been redeeming them. Notwithstanding the clouds which lowered in the political horizon, notwithstanding the convulsed state of Europe from one extremity to the other—notwithstanding the prophecies of the hon. member for Essex (Mr. A. Baring) who had pronounced it impossible to preserve peace for three months—yet peace (thanks to the generous and en-
 79 "——Virtulem incolumem odimus, Sublatam ex oculis quærimus invidi." 80
 Sir Robert Peel  interrupted the hon. Member to observe, that the present Government could not be said to consist of nothing but pure old Whigs, if it was part of the character of pure old Whigs to support pure old Whig principles. There was More than one individual on the Ministerial bench who could not lay claim to the denomination of a pure old Whig.
 Sir Robert Peel : My remark was made in consequence of what fell from the hon. Gentleman who has just spoken (Mr. Gisborne). That hon. Gentleman said that the Tory members of the late Government had been gradually wheeled out, and that the present Government was a compound of "pure old Whigs." I observed that this was a mistake—that they were not "pure old Whigs," whereupon the hon. Gentleman concluded that I meant to say that they were Radicals. This I deny. What I meant to say was—that the present Government does not consist of "pure old Whigs." I did not say that they are Tory—but that they do not come under the ordinary denomination of "pure old Whigs." I recollect the noble Lord belonged to the Government of Mr. Perceval, to the Government of Lord Liverpool, to the Government of Mr. Canning, to the Government of Lord Goderich, and I thought, that inasmuch as he was a person who had funned one of each of these Governments, he could not come under the denomination of a "pure old Whig."
 Sir Robert Peel : As regards the expression of a little impatience by the House, of some parts of the speech of one so much entitled to attention as is my hon. friend,  [The House had betrayed some impatience when Mr. Attwood was speaking.] 68
 Lord Althorp : In reply to the right hon. Gentleman, I beg to state, that as regards the Irish Tithe Bill, it is the intention of his Majesty's Government to persevere with that measure. With respect to the last question of the right hon. Gentleman, I have to inform him, that I shall give notice of my intention to move, tomorrow, for leave to bring in a Bill to renew the Coercion Act, with certain modifications, the nature of which, when I make the Motion, I shall state to the House. With respect to the other question, I am not quite prepared to state whether his Majesty's Government will have time to carry the measure to which he referred through Parliament this Session; therefore, if he will allow me, to that question I will not give him an answer.
 Lord Althorp :—I take the opportunity of moving a new writ, for the purpose of stating to the House, that Lord Melbourne having been commissioned by his Majesty to lay before him the plan of an Administration, has completed his arrangements, and has reconstructed the Cabinet. The addition made to the Ministry is, that Lord Duncannon having accepted the office of Secretary of State for the Home Department, Sir John Cam Hobhouse has been appointed to the Woods and Forests, instead of Lord Duncannon, with a seat in the Cabinet. Therefore, as far as relates to any addition, the alteration in the Cabinet will not be very great; but, undoubtedly, the alteration in the Cabinet is great—very great indeed, in the loss of the services of Lord Grey; and it is impossible for me to disguise from myself, it would be hypocrisy in me were I to state to the House, that I thought the Cabinet, deprived of Lord Grey, as presiding over its Councils, could have as strong a claim upon the confidence of the country as before his retirement. On public grounds, it is impossible for me to express my regret more strongly than I feel it; and on personal grounds, it impresses me still more deeply. During the whole of my political life, I have looked up to Lord Grey as my tutor and leader. Such he has continued to me from the earliest moment that I had a seat in Parliament; and I certainly never would have accepted office, unless to assist Lord Grey in the establishment of a Government. At that time we had the prospect before us of being able to accomplish the great object of Parliamentary Reform. In addition, I may say, that even with this prospect I never would have consented to accept
 59 60
 Viscount Palmerston : All I rose to say was, that if the right hon. Baronet meant to imply that myself and my right hon. friend were Tories, then certainly he has inspired me with some hope of a speedy improvement in the present condition of the country. I and my right hon. friend took an active part in forwarding the measure of Parliamentary Reform; we are also prepared to act on those principles which my noble friend (Lord Althorp) has stated to the House this evening—honestly and boldly to examine all the institutions of the country, with a view not to destroy but to strengthen them, by remedying their abuses and defects; and if, such being our principles and our views, we fall under the denomination of Tories, I am happy to hear the right hon. Baronet say so, because, as a natural consequence, I conclude that we are likely to have his support, and the support of his friends, in our efforts to carry those measures of improvement which we may feel it to be our duty to bring before the House. I must add, that I do not think the right hon. Baronet was well treated by the hon. member for Essex. The right hon. Baronet with his usual good taste and judgment, stated, that he should not, on the present occasion, go into any detailed criticism of the measures of the late or the present
 76
 Viscount Palmerston  complained that the right hon. Baronet opposite had thought proper to make personal allusion to himself and his right hon. friend (Mr. C. Grant), by pointing to them, and observing that there were at least two Tories in the present Administration.
 Viscount Palmerston : I beg to remind the House, since this matter has assumed a personal complexion, that I left the Administration of the Duke of Wellington, at a time when, in all human probability,
 78
 Viscount Palmerston : Really I had not mistaken the meaning of the hon. Gentleman; the correction is not very material. The hon. Gentleman told us, then, that he had been the follower of the noble Lord, during the greater part of his life, because he respected his private and personal conduct, and approved of his public principles. But it happened that, precisely at the moment when the noble Lord was in a situation in which he could carry his political principles into effect,—that, I say, was the moment in which the hon. Member thought fit to change his colours, and to enter into an active opposition to those measures which he formerly supported. That is the course which this hon. Member has pursued towards his leader; let us now see what his course is to another. The hon. member fights now under the banners of—I do not say he is bound absolutely thereby, but he is acting, apparently, in concert with the right hon. Baronet. Instead, however, of following the good example of the right hon. Gentleman upon this occasion, he did precisely the reverse of that which his leader had done. It is not necessary for me to go into a reply to what has fallen from the hon. Gentleman, respecting the noble Lord who now fills the office of Home Secretary; I agree entirely with what has fallen on that subject front the hon. and learned Gentleman, the member for Dublin. I trust that the present Government will obtain the support, confidence, and approbation of this House and the country, and I have a perfect conviction, from my long acquaintance with the noble Lord, that his measures will redound to the advantage and happiness of the empire.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  presented a petition from the inhabitants of Upwell, against the Upwell Tithes Bill. The hon. Member observed, that the petitioners had presented a petition in another place in favour of the measure; they were now satisfied, it was from gross misrepresentation they were induced to give their consent to it, and they therefore entirely retracted it.
 Sir William Folkes  supported the Bill, believing it to be as much for the benefit of the parishioners as the rector, and expressed a hope that the House would consent to let it go to a Committee.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  opposed the Bill. He considered it one of the grossest instances of clerical rapacity that had ever come before the House, and trusted it would never receive the approbation of a Reformed Parliament. The Bill was treated as a private one; but was as important in principle to the public as any question which had ever come under the consideration of the House. The case was amply provided for by the Bill introduced by the Chancellor of the Exchequer for a commutation of tithes; and this Bill, which was a gross job, sought to evade the operation of that measure by being ingeniously introduced as a private Bill. It was opposed to the general wish of the parishioners, and he trusted the House would reject it.
 Sir Robert Inglis  would ask the hon. Member how this transaction could be termed an instance of clerical rapacity, when he well knew, that the Bill only secured to the rector an income of 4,500 l. l.
 Mr. Childers  said, the amount of tithes actually collected last year was 4,700 l.; l.,
 Mr. Estcourt  defended the character of the clergyman against the attack of the hon. member for Finsbury, having long known him to be a person of great worth. The Bill was a most important one, establishing as it did a principle of the most beneficial nature in the commutation of tithes. He believed the persons who had been induced to petition against this Bill had been innocently made the tools of other persons to serve their purposes, and that the Bill, so far from operating with injury to them, would be productive of the greatest general advantage to the parish.
 Lord George Bentinck  supported the Bill, observing that if it was not suffered to pass before the end of the Session, the rector would be compelled to collect his tithes in kind during the present summer. He did not see how the rector could be charged with rapacity when he was legally entitled to 6,000 l., l.
 Mr. Hesketh Fleet wood  presented a Petition from the master cotton-spinners and manufacturers of Preston and its neighbourhood, complaining of the duty on raw cotton, and praying its immediate repeal. This duty was in a
 130
 Mr. Philips  considered the duty on raw cotton to be every way objectionable. It was a tax which pressed most severely on a class of persons who were the least able to bear it, and he hoped the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) would endeavour to remove it as speedily as possible.
 Colonel Evans  hoped, that the principle would not be lost sight of, but that the noble Lord opposite would give it his attention at the beginning of next Session. The right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) appeared to have been rather inconsistent in his argument. That right hon. Gentleman admitted, that Members ought to be responsible for their votes to their constituents; yet he objected to their names being taken down, by which alone their constituents could be made acquainted with the votes of their Representatives. The right hon. Gentleman argued that, inasmuch as the ten patriots voting "aye" or "no" had already the means of making their votes known, that was sufficient; but he would ask, why the twenty or thirty non-patriots were to escape their share of responsibility—why their names were not to be taken down also? He thought, that the building of an additional Lobby would occasion a
 136
 Mr. Lefroy  begged to know, whether it was the intention of his Majesty's Ministers to lay before the House the evidence which induced them to change their minds with respect to the Bill; and, after it had been passed through several stages in the House of Lords in an efficient form, to present it now to that House with the omission of certain clauses which heretofore were represented as the most essential for the peace and security of Ireland? The noble Lord said, that the Bill was altered in consequence of confidential communications having been made on the subject by the head of the Irish Government; and yet, with a full knowledge of those communications, Earl Grey introduced into the House of Lords, a measure totally different from that which the noble Lord was now about to introduce into that House. He did not rise to advocate the renewal of the measure proposed, nor to offer any judgment of his own upon that point, but he did rise as an Irish Member, bound peculiarly to look after the peace of Ireland, to ask why it was, that, after the majority of the Cabinet had pledged themselves that a more ample Bill was necessary, Parliament and the country, and, above all, the peaceable inhabitants of Ireland had a right to know why it was, that the measure now proposed fell materially short
 143 144 145
 Mr. O'Connell  would only implore the House for one moment to consider the wretched state of Ireland. They had just heard the Representative of the Protestant Clergy of Ireland, the Representative of a Protestant University in Ireland, strenuously urging his complaints; and was it that the liberties of his countrymen had been taken away? Was it that their constitution had been violated? Was it that they were to be enslaved? Oh, no!—it was because they had too much of liberty;—it was because they had not been enslaved enough! That country which, besides supporting its own clergy, paid millions for the support of the Protestant Church in Ireland, and those whom the hon. and learned Gentleman represented, were the very individuals who fed and fattened on the spoil. He never felt indignation yet, equal to the indigua-
 146 [Cries of
"Order!"]
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the noble Lord appeared to be invested with the spirit of prophecy. The complaint was not that he was disorderly, but that he was about to become disorderly; the fact was, the noble Lord was himself disorderly in anticipating and interrupting him. He was expressing what he trusted was honest indignation, that any man representing such a class as the Protestant clergy of Ireland, should express his regret that there was not tyranny enough. Was it not sufficient to excite indignation to hear the hon. and learned Gentleman, who was a Doctor of Civil Law, and a Doctor of Common Law,—he need not go to Oxford, where there were such select doings, and where they exercised so much discretion in giving degrees,—he was dubbed doctor already—was it not enough to excite his indignation, to hear that hon. and learned Gentleman call on his Majesty's Ministers—for what? Why, to limit the Constitution. Every man stood on the Constitution of his country, as he stood on his innocence. He who would make a case against it, must be prepared with proof. The course of the hon. and learned Gentleman was false in theory, and bad in feeling. He threw himself on the House, and begged them to consider the case of his unfortunate country,—its centuries of confusion, discord, and discontent,—its centuries of blood,—and all to maintain a Church over a people, with which the people held no sympathy. He regretted, that the noble Lord had not brought forward this measure quite in the spirit in which he thought he ought. But he would not now renew any portion of the controversy which the measure occasioned last year. He was content to let the past be buried in oblivion, and to look to the future. He saw a new Cabinet before him, and he hoped and trusted, though the present was not a very decided step, that he might take it as an indication of an intention to do something for the improvement of Ireland—he hoped and trusted he might consider it a symptom of
 147 148 149 150 151
 Mr. Ruthven  could not sanction the principle of the Bill, as it went to interfere in certain cases with the rights of
 178
 Mr. Cayley  remarked, that he could not consent to a Bill which obtruded on the public the restrictions of past Acts of Parliament without the exceptions. He should propose a clause, of which he had given notice, which would have the effect of removing this blot from the measure. The hon. Member was proceeding to read his clause, when
 Mr. Poulter  observed, that the proper time for the hon. Member to move the insertion of his clause would be after the third reading, on the question, that the Bill do pass.
 Mr. Cayley  intimated, that he should not oppose the third reading; but would wait till the next stage of the Bill to bring his clause forward.
 Mr. Poulter  said, that the hon. member for Yorkshire was much mistaken if he supposed that the Bill was intended for any other purpose than the suppression of Sunday trading. There was nothing in it to prevent any person taking exercise either by land or water. He trusted, therefore, that the House would agree to the third reading.
 Mr. Hawes  had supposed, that the measure related only to a prohibition of Sunday trading, but, on examination, he found that it went a great deal further. In the first place, it called into operation the 29th of Charles 2nd, and put a stop altogether to Sunday travelling. Thus, even steam-boats would not be permitted, and he took upon himself to say, that unless the House encouraged innocent recreations among the poorer classes, it would be quite useless to appoint Committees to inquire into the best means of checking the growth of drunkenness.
 Mr. Baines  was opposed to the introduction of such a clause in this Bill. It was quite incongruous to the objects of the Bill, and it would be absurd to introduce it into it. It was an attempt to introduce an innovation, a like attempt at which had led to the decapitation of one Stuart, and to the final dethronement of that family. This measure had been petitioned for by upwards of 100,000 people and the effect of this clause would be to afford a toleration to the very worst sports on a Sunday. He was sure that every person who had a regard for the due observance of the Sabbath, and who desired that it should not be desecrated, would oppose such a clause.
 Mr. O'Connell,  on the contrary, hoped that every one who had a regard for the due and proper observance of the Sabbath would support such a clause. What affectation it was, to talk of the indulgence of the people in innocent recreations and amusements as a desecration of the Sunday, as a violation of the due observance of the Sabbath! What greater and worse affectation it was to prescribe a moping melancholy as the proper observance of that day! What were the poor to do on the Sunday after they had attended to their religious duties? A man was not likely to sit the whole afternoon twirling his thumbs and even that might possibly be discovered by the microscopic eyes of holiness to be a desecration of the Sabbath. If a man under such circumstances were not allowed to indulge in innocent sports on the Sunday, what would be the consequence? Why that he would inevitably resort to the public-house or beer-shop to swill beer and meet the poacher, the gambler, and other depraved and abandoned characters. This clause merely went to afford the poor the opportunity of still indulging in innocent recreations on the Sunday. He was surprised to hear the hon. member for Leeds gravely inform them that, it was an attempt like this that
 196
 Mr. Divett  said, that while he was anxious that the poor should enjoy themselves in innocent recreations on the Sabbath, he at the same time thought that it would be objectionable to introduce such a clause as this into the Bill. The effect of it would be, to show disrespect to those whose religious scruples induced them to seek for a more strict observance of the Sabbath. He trusted that the hon. Member would not press the clause.
 Mr. Wynn  said, that he should vote decidedly in favour of the introduction of the present clause into the Bill. He would do so, as he was anxious to remove all impediments in the way of the innocent recreations and exercises of the lower orders, particularly after they had heard divine service on the Sunday. He did not believe that the indulging in such innocent amusements constituted any desecration of the Sabbath. On the contrary, he thought that a better offering could not be made to the Almighty than that presented in a happy and joyous people on the day of rest—on the Sabbath. He should be very sorry to offend the feelings of any class of the community on this subject; but if
 197
 Mr. Plumptre  said, that he would give the clause his most decided opposition.
 Mr. Beaumont  was favour of the clause. Why should they legislate differently for the poor and for the rich? why should the rich be allowed to have their grand banquets, their iced champagne, &c., on the Sunday, while the poor man was prevented getting his dinner baked on that day?
 Mr. George F. Young  was opposed to the introduction of this clause by way of a side-wind. It was utterly inconsistent with the Bill.
 Lord Morpeth  was most anxious that the poor should enjoy their innocent recreations on the Sunday, but the introduction of such a clause as this would give offence to a large and religious portion of the community.
 Mr. Warburton  was happy to say, that the games of cricket, and other such innocent amusements, still prevailed in "merry England." It was because the Magistrates were in the habit of interfering to prevent the poor from enjoying innocent recreations on the Sunday, that he would give his strongest support to such a clause as that now under consideration.
 Mr. Maxwell  agreed with the noble lord (Lord Morpeth), and recommended the withdrawal of the clause.
 Mr. Pease  was opposed to the clause; it would be better to leave the matter to the discretion of the Magistrates.
 Mr. Poulter  said, that his objection to the clause was, that his Bill did not prohibit any sports that at present existed. This clause, however, would go to sanction them, and would give offence to that large and religious class of the community which had called for this measure.
 The Attorney General  observed, that if this clause were adopted, it would go to sanction a fox-chase on a Sunday, for that might be included in the term "games of exercise." That was going further than the "Book of Sports" for James specified the games he permitted. It was to be observed, that it was those only who had attended at divine service that were permitted afterwards to indulge in them.
 Mr. Mark Philips  observed, that the learned Gentleman's illustration was an important one. A fox-chase was an expensive amusement, accessible only to a few, and therefore not likely to be pursued on a Sunday; whereas those innocent recreations of the lower orders now in question could only be indulged in on that day. If the Bill attempted to interfere with the amusements of the people, he would give it his utmost opposition; if it did not, he thought this clause unnecessary.
 Mr. Poulter  observed, that the Bill interfered with no species of recreation.
 Mr. H. Hughes  said, that if the usual channels of information should communicate to the public to-morrow what had taken place on this occasion, he was sure that the people would be astonished to find those who called themselves their Representatives treating in such a way a Bill for the prevention of Sunday Trading, and endeavouring to ingraft on it a clause the object of which was the desecration of the Sabbath, and the turning into ridicule the Sabbath and everything connected with it.
 Mr. Tennyson  was in favour of enabling the poor to enjoy their innocent recreations on the Sabbath, the only day allotted to them for that purpose. He should certainly vote for the clause. It would be a most unwise thing to legislate so as to render the Sabbath odious to the poor.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  hoped the clause would be withdrawn.
 Mr. Secretary Rice  said, that some observations had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman, respecting a noble friend of his, which, out of regard both to the cause of truth and to the character of his noble friend, obliged him to offer some few remarks to the House. In the first place, however, he must advert to the general principle which had been laid down by the hon. and gallant officer, and respecting which he fully and entirely concurred with him. He thought that that general principle, and the observations
 188 189 190 191 192
 Mr. O'Connell  concurred in thinking, that the Bill ought to be postponed.
 The Attorney General  could not accede to the request of the hon. Members, but must call on the House for a decision on the Bill.
 The Attorney General  looked for the support of his hon. friend on the second reading, as he approved of the principle of the Bill, but objected to the proviso: but, in fact, this proviso decided nothing, but merely saved what might be declared to be the existing privileges of the Bank of England.
 The Attorney General  observed, that he had not neglected to follow this plan when he moved for leave to bring in the Bill, and it was simply to enable Corporations to sue and be sued by one of their officers.
 Colonel Perceval  said, that the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had attempted to draw away the attention of the House from the question actually at issue, and by a reference to other subjects, had made an impression upon the House. The right hon. Gentleman also appealed to the influential Member below him, to whom it appeared the charge of preserving the peace of Ireland was to be confided by his Majesty's Government. The right hon. Gentleman talked of the responsibility which the hon. and learned Gentleman, the member for Dublin, incurred in the event of his again agitating Ireland; but it was his Majesty's Ministers who incurred a heavy responsibility, in not preventing the possibility of his doing so. What confidence could either Whig, Tory, or Radical, place in the Administration, as at present constructed—an Administration which eight days since introduced the measure in its totality (to borrow a phrase from the hon. and learned mem-
 185 ["No, no!"] 186 187
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, it was needless to say he fully concurred in the observations of those hon. Members who had preceded him. He viewed any duty upon the raw material to be at all times a most impolitic tax, but more particularly upon what he might term the staple commodity of the country. He thought the Administration of Earl Grey had uniformly shown that it entertained similar views, and it had also manifested an unceasing endeavour to relieve industry from this species of taxation. In corroboration of what he said, he referred with peculiar satisfaction to what had been effected with regard to the tax upon printed calico. The original tax had not only been repealed, but also the substitute for that tax, and the rated duty reduced below what it was before. Should his noble friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, have a surplus revenue next year, he trusted he would be able to avail himself of the opportunity to satisfy the wishes of those on whom taxes of this description peculiarly pressed. He believed the best mode of relieving the country from the oppression of taxation was, to extend industry, and to find employment for the whole of the people. This could never be better done than by reducing the taxes upon the raw material.
 Mr. Ronayne  protested against the re-enactment of the Bill in the face of the statements put forth by the Judges of Assize to the Grand Juries of Ireland that the law was sufficiently powerful to meet any disturbances which might occur. He relied especially on the recent charge of Mr. Baron Pennefather, delivered to the Grand Jury of Clare, in the town of Ennis, and concurring in that opinion so expressed by such authorities, he should oppose the re-enactment of the Bill.
 Mr. Baines  felt great pleasure in supporting the prayer of the petition. Whenever a tax had been imposed upon the raw material, it had been found to operate prejudicially, and its removal had been hailed with satisfaction by the country. There was no boon that could be offered to the manufacturers that would be re-
 131
 Mr. Littleton  said, he should feel great reluctance in refusing to answer any question relating to such subjects coming from his noble friend who had just sat down, but he begged to say, that no man could be morally entitled to receive an answer to such an interrogatory. He really felt bound on principle to decline answering. He might, however, go the length of saying, that within a short time of the preparation of the papers laid before Parliament, the Cabinet had made up their minds to a certain portion of the Coercion Bill; but he confessed, that after making up those papers—a duty which devolved more particularly upon him—the necessity for renewing the Bill in its full extent appeared greatly to diminish. He was ready to admit, that the other duties of his office had prevented his paying that attention to the facts bearing upon the question which he otherwise might, until the time for coming to a decision on it had arrived. A communication relating to the matter was made to the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland, and most certainly had his answer to that been unfavourable, the public would have heard nothing more upon the subject.
 Mr. Littleton  trusted he should not be thought presumptuous in attempting to follow the right hon. Baronet, because deeply implicated as he felt himself to be in all the transactions which had been alluded to, he was naturally impelled to offer that vindication of his conduct and opinions, which he as honestly believed as he earnestly hoped, would be satisfactory to the House. Before adverting to what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, he should briefly address himself to some of those arguments which had been advanced by the hon. and learned member for the University of Dublin. He trusted that the whole course of his conduct on this occasion would serve to satisfy everybody who heard him, that he was not an individual at all ambitious, from the situation which he held in the Government, of being armed with extraordinary powers, holding, as he did, in abhorrence everything like unconstitutional authority; but he must take the liberty
 161
 Mr. Littleton  was quite aware of the circumstance alluded to by the hon. and learned Gentleman, and he repeated that, with one solitary exception, he had never heard of any complaint as to the manner in which the law had been carried into execution. In the case to which he alluded a laity who had been travelling was stopped in the middle of the night, somewhere in the county of Kilkenny, but the complaint had been made through another individual, without her authority, and on a reference to her, which he had felt bound to make, she expressed great indignation that any notice had been taken of it, as she was enabled, without further inconvenience, to pursue her journey on the following day. It was undoubtedly true, as the learned Gentleman had stated, that when a proposal was made to proclaim a barony in Galway, Lord Clanricarde, the Lieutenant, expressed his individual opin-
 162 163 164 l. 165 166 167 168 169
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  said, that the whole of the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman went to prove that the House ought not to allow the introduction of this measure. As to the question which had been put to the right hon. Secretary for Ireland by the noble Lord opposite—if there were not some matters kept behind, why should he hesitate to answer the noble Lord fairly. He thought, indeed, that the confidence which was placed in the present Ministry was a rebuke to Earl Grey. What, however, had Ministers done for Ireland during their Administration, that they should now demand the confidence of the Irish people? "Actions spoke the mind," and what had been the actions or the acts of Ministers towards that country? They proposed the Coercion Bill in another place, and now they proposed to introduce it in that House with so slight an alteration as to render the distinction almost laughable. The
 172 173
 Mr. George Wood  had heard the sentiments which had just fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, with very great satisfaction. He sincerely hoped, considering the important station of his right hon. friend, another year would not be suffered to pass without the country witnessing the removal of this most injurious tax.
 Mr. Aglionby  thought the objections to the proviso were groundless, and he should support it in the Committee.
 Mr. Barron  considered the proposed Bill to be a protective measure against those lawless ruffians who, having neither character nor property of their own to lose, attacked the lives and property of all the respectable classes of society in Ireland. Such being his opinion of the measure, it was unnecessary for him to add that lie thought it was one which every honest man ought to support. He could easily understand why the measure was not palatable to the right hon. Gentleman near him, who had once been chief Secretary for Ireland. The right hon. Gentleman wished for something more arbitrary. His disposition had been evinced by the mad acts which had nearly produced rebellion in Ireland; and it was not unnatural that his disappointed ambition should not relish such a measure as the present. He (Mr. Barron), however, was confident that the measure would give great satisfaction to the people of Ireland. At the same time he must declare, that he would have given the Bill his strongest opposition, if it had been brought forward in that House in the shape in which it had been introduced into the House of Lords. The conduct of his Majesty's present Government with respect to the measure had been perfectly justifiable and laudable. Indeed it was impossible that they could think of bringing the measure forward in that House in the same shape as it had been introduced to the House of Lords; for it was evident that as soon as it became known in Ireland that the Lord-lieutenant and five members of the Cabinet were opposed to the severer provisions of the Bill, it would have been impracticable to carry those provisions into effect. He trusted, that from the present time a milder and a better mode of governing Ireland would be resorted to than that which had been hitherto practised. All measures of severity had totally failed in governing that country. Was it not time to have re-
 174
 Mr. Warburton  seconded the Motion, though he was prepared to contend, that the plan had not been fairly tried last night. Indeed, during the experiment, he felt himself in much the same situation as an enraged musician, who, having produced a piece of music of a character that ought to be performed by a first-rate performer, found it intrusted to the meagre skill of the merest scraper of catgut in the world. The success of the plan depended, first on the velocity exercised on calling out the names; and secondly, on the velocity with which the names so called out were taken down, and certainly last night there had been no expedition used in either of these essentials to the proposed plan. Whether the default in calling the names arose from a want of readiness on the part of his hon. friend, the member for Middlesex, or whether the latter defect arose from a willing readiness on the part of the accomplices of the plan, he would leave the House to determine; but certainly the plan had succeeded on a fresh experiment this morning, on the occasion of the division of a House constituted of at least 100 Members. He did not mean to call his hon. friend near him (Mr. Hume) a bad performer; on the contrary, he thought him a perfect Paganini; and if he had been seconded by the writer who was employed, who had not those flying fingers which the occasion demanded, all would have gone well. From what had been shown by the second rehearsal of that morning, he did not anticipate
 133
 Mr. Abercromby  would detain the House but a very few moments. He should not have risen to make any observations whatever, had it not been for some things which had fallen from the hon. and learned Member, and which he could not suffer to pass unnoticed. He was sorry to say, that the hon. and learned Member's speech had partaken more of the character of a lawyer, than that of a Legislator. The speech, in fact, had been purely legal, and was in no respect adapted to the meridian of that House. The hon. and learned Gentleman had said, that his Majesty's Ministers had assumed it as a matter beyond all question, that a good case had been made out for the propriety of passing the Bill which his noble friend had introduced. He denied the assertion, for his Majesty's Government had fully stated the grounds upon which they called upon Parliament to agree to the measure they had laid before it. With respect to the change of opinion in the noble Lord at the head of the Irish Government, he begged leave to remind the hon. and learned Member, that that change had been limited to only three clauses of the Bill, and that it did not relate to the general character or propriety of the measure to be introduced. That part of the Lord-lieutenant's opinion had never changed, and it still remained unshaken. The hon. Member had argued like a lawyer, that because the noble Lord had changed his opinion once, he might change it again; but was it to reason closely to suppose, that because he had changed his opinion upon only one point, it was likely that he should change it upon the whole measure? But the real question was, if a case had been made out to establish the necessity of the Bill. He would refer to the Report of 1832, which had had so much respect paid to it by the Gentlemen of Ireland, that on the present occasion they proposed, that that Report should now be reprinted for the informa-
 183 184
 Mr. Brotherton  conceived nothing could be more impolitic than the imposing a tax on raw cotton. The long hours of labour of those employed in our manufactories, and the low wages in particular which the weavers received, were considered necessary, in order that this country might be able to compete in the foreign market; and yet a tax was continued on the raw material. He trusted that this tax, which pressed so heavily on the industry of the country, would not be suffered much longer to remain.
 Mr. Hume  was rather disappointed, when he thought that the term catgut-scraper was applied to him by his hon. friend, although he laid no claim to the title of a perfect Paganini. However, let a man be as eminent a performer as he might be, it was still necessary for him to have a rehearsal. He thought that, under the circumstances, he could not be considered as having had a fair trial. The right hon. member for Tamworth had no great reason to exult in the success of the noble Lord's Motion, although he was against the principle of the measure brought forward by the hon. member for St. Alban's, as his satisfaction could only last for a short time. The temporary failure of the plan had been attributed to him (Mr. Hume), because he had undertaken to assist in carrying it into effect; but this was a groundless charge. If the plan which he himself had submitted to the Committee had been adopted—and it was not adopted only because they wanted the means to give it effect, namely, by adding another entrance to the House corresponding to the Lobby—he felt sure that it would have succeeded. He would put it to the noble Lord, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether he would not think it advisable to erect another room on the east side of the House, that the plan might have a fair trial? Hon. Members might laugh at the word trial, but he would say, the realization of his plan. He did not, indeed, see why his Majesty's Ministers should not build a new House at once. Members were condemned to inhale, for eight, ten, and sometimes fourteen hours a-day, the pestilential air of that House, and he wondered the noble Lord was not more careful of his own health. Years were telling upon the noble Lord as well as on himself, and neither the noble Lord, nor he, were so able to bear night-work as they were some years back. The House might laugh, but it was
 134 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  also expressed his gratification at the speech which he had just heard, and as the right hon. Gentleman viewed with him, that taxation upon the raw material was the worst of all taxation, he trusted no time would be lost in repealing it.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  expressed a hope that the Bill, which involved a most important principle, would be postponed, for at that late hour, many hon. Members had gone away under the impression that it would not be proceeded with.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  said, that while he assented to the principle of the first clause of the Bill he must protest against the last clause, both in principle and detail. It retained an exclusive right of banking to the Governor and Company of the Bank of England, and to this he must object, after the question had been discussed no less than three times in this House. The whole aim of the Bill was contained in the latter clause.
 Mr. Sheil  was not aware, until he heard it stated in this debate, that any part of the peasantry of Ireland were anxious to see locks placed on their hovels after sunset, or were disposed to see power given to the Lord-lieutenant of placing them almost under Martial-law. He did not believe, that any feeling of this kind prevailed amongst the people of Ireland. The noble Lord (Lord Althorp) had made a statement as to the necessity of this measure, but he had not adduced any evidence to justify what the noble Lord himself considered a violation of the Constitution. In order to justify such a measure the noble lord was bound to make out a strong case. Now what case had he made out? On what authority did he rest? Was it on that of the right hon. Secretary for Ireland? He was not disposed to lay any great stress on his authority; for that right hon. Gentleman had shown that he was prepared to vote for the whole Bill, though there were certain clauses of it which he did not approve. Still less could he rely on the authority of the Lord-lieutenant, for he found that on the 18th of
April, the Lord-lieutenant was for the renewal of the whole Bill, though on the
 179 suggestio falsi, suppressio veri. 180 181 182
 Mr. Sheil  said, that Lord Clanricarde had reprobated the measure, and objected to the application of it to part of the county of Galway.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  objected altogether to Joint-stock Companies for pur-
 194
 Mr. Christmas  could not understand the grounds of the very strange and inconsistent course pursued by Ministers. All the causes which were urged in justification of the former Bill were still in existence, and yet they were now told, that a Bill from which the most important clauses of the former Bill were omitted would be sufficient. He did not wish to appear to oppose a measure intended for the protection of property; but he owned, that he felt so strong an objection to this Bill that lie did not think he should vote for it.
 Mr. Cobbett  attributed the mitigation of the provisions of the present Bill from those of the measure of last year solely to the noble Lord opposite. He should, however, vote against the introduction of even the proposed measure, though he supposed it would be carried, and that the other House of Parliament would not refuse its assent to it. He should vote against it, putting up his prayers that it might tend to no ill effects but to those who had introduced it.
 Mr. Tooke  objected to the proviso, as introduced with an insidious aim; but he should not oppose the second reading.
 Mr. Henry Lytton Bulwer  said, that he would give his support to the greater part of the Bill. He congratulated the House on having a Cabinet which had consented to give up the very objectionable parts of the Bill. An hon. and learned Member had laid great stress on the wretched condition of the Irish peasantry. He (Mr. Bulwer) would apply every possible remedy to better their condition, but that would not prevent him from supporting a measure to give due protection to property.
 Mr. Ward  would, of course, bow assent to the expression of the wish of the House, but he pledged himself most distinctly to bring forward the question again, or some measure like it, at an early period of the next Session.
 Sir Robert Peel  was surprised to find himself in so large a majority. It was a very short time ago that he could only prevail on about thirty Gentlemen to vote with him against the trial being made this Session—he recommended them to wait till next Session; but he was denounced as an enemy to all improvement, and a trial was resolved on, with what result he need not say. He did not object to the votes of Members being made known to their constituents, but he thought that on particular questions a Member might, with a particular view, vote in a manner quite at variance with his general and professed principles; and, on a former occasion, he had instanced the example of a gentleman who, on an emergency, voted in favour of the Assessed-taxes, because the question involved the existence of an Administration which the hon. Member preferred to another. He did also object to the principle of the question; and he argued against it, for one ground, on the score of probable multiplication of divisions. If the principle was good for a minority of ten as compared to thirty, it was good for a minority of ten as compared with 300; and when ten or twelve patriots felt strongly on any subject, if their names were sure to he known, there would be no more of that amicable compromise by which, with the aid of the Speaker, a minority frequently gave way without putting the House to the trouble
 135
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the question at present under the consideration of the House was, whether the Bill which was last Session passed by a large majority, and was then considered essential for the protection of life and property in Ireland, should be renewed with certain modifications, the effect of which would be to leave the law in force which was directed against the inferior instruments of agitation, and to omit that part of it which was directed against those who were supposed to be the chief causes of the disorders which prevailed in Ireland—namely, those who encouraged systematic agitation? Be should rejoice as much as any man could, at any opportunity of restoring the
 152 153 154 ["Hear," from Mr. Littleton.] 155 156 157 158 publici juris, 159 160
 Mr. Clay  thought that the papers on the Table afforded ample justification for the Bill, deprived of the clauses formerly annexed to it; but he could not see in those papers the slightest justification for those clauses. Those papers afforded no proof of political disaffection, but they afforded ample proof of the distress of the population. He had sought in vain in them for evidence of any connexion between agrarian disturbance and political disaffection. He congratulated the House on the return to power of a Government which, professing liberal feelings and opinions, was entitled to their support. As to the changes that had taken place in a few of the individuals of that Government, he did not think that that House or the public had much to do with them. They ought to look only at the measures which were pursued. Indeed, the day had almost gone by when individuals could add to the strength of Government. That was now a weak Government which attacked the popular will and intelligence; that was now a strong Government which accorded with the popular will and intelligence. He trusted that the present
 175
 Mr. Denis O'Conor  trusted that he should not incur the imputation of dishonesty, if he assured his hon. friend, the member for Waterford, that he could not vote for the present Bill, at all events in its present extent, notwithstanding the assertion that no honest man could vote against it. If the Bill were not exceedingly modified—if it did not omit all that had been objected to in it by his hon. and learned friend the member for Dublin, he should feel it incumbent on him, in the discharge of the duty he owed his constituents, to oppose the progress of the Bill, and most certainly to vote against its third reading. He was strongly impressed with the conviction of the adequacy of the ordinary law of the land for the vindication of justice and the repression of crime; and he was confirmed in that assurance, not only by the assertions to that effect by the Chief Justice and the Crown Solicitor for Ireland, which had already been quoted, but also by his own experience. He saw the law tried, and its efficiency proved, in the county which he had the honour to represent. His hon. and learned friend the member for Dublin had stated the effect of a Special Commission in the county of Clare. He would call the attention of the House to the effects of a Special Commission in the county of Roscommon. But few years had elapsed since that county was in a state of frightful disturbance; the law of the land was entirely superseded by agrarian confederacies; a meeting of Magistrates took place, when disturbances rose to as alarming a height as they had done in any part of Ireland; at that meeting almost every Magistrate who was present considered that nothing short of the Insurrection Act would restore tranquillity; there were but few dissentients—he believed but two or three: the majority, however, yielded to the opinion of the minority, that a Special Commission ought first to be tried. That Commission was tried; Jurors, and witnesses, and prosecutors were had in abundance; convictions were had wherever they were justified; punishments were summary; and the county was restored from the worst state of disturbance to perfect tranquillity.
 176 177
 Lord Althorp : I rise to bring under the consideration of the House the propriety of renewing in part the Bill for the Suppression of Disturbances in Ireland which passed in the course of the last Session. In the first place, it will be necessary for me to state the grounds on which I recommend to the house to renew those parts of the Bill which I propose to retain; and I shall have also to give some reasons (though I do not think that, to a House of Commons, it will be necessary for me to go a very great length into those reasons) why I do not, on the present occasion, call for more power than I am about to ask the House to confer. The state of Ireland last year, as appeared when the matter was then brought under the consideration of the House, was such (outrages of the most grievous description existing through different parts of the country), that his Majesty's Ministers felt they could not be answerable for the peace of the country, unless Parliament invested them with powers beyond the ordinary powers of the Constitution, with a view to the suppression of those outrages. I need not recapitulate what took place on that occasion. I believe the House knows that even those hon. Gentlemen who opposed with the utmost eagerness, the Bill then introduced, did admit, that the outrages existing in different parts of Ireland required extraordinary powers to put them down. That Bill having been passed, almost immediately afterwards the provisions of its enactments were applied to the county of Kilkenny. This was one of those counties in which it appeared, when the question was under discussion in the House, outrages were most frequent. The effect in Kilkenny of applying the provisions of the Bill to that county has been, that whereas the number of outrages, from the beginning of the month of April, 1832, to the beginning of April, 1833, were 1,590; from the beginning of April, 1833, to the beginning of April, 1834, they were only 331. This is the statement of the effect which the application of the Bill to the most disturbed district in Ireland produced, as ascertained by the experience of the last year. Some time elapsed after this before the provisions of the Bill were tried in any other part of
 138 139 140 141 142
 Lord Althorp  was quite sure, from the result of the trial which was had last night, that, even if the plan proposed by the hon. member for Middlesex had been adopted, no better success would have attended it than that which had failed. It was alleged, that the circumstances of the trial were unfavourable to it; but he thought that, considering that the largest majority counted and enrolled according to the new plan last night was only 105, instead of 300 or 400, great facilities had been afforded it. As to building a new Lobby or a new House, he had no reason to believe that any large proportion of the Members wished either to be done; but, if at any time a great majority of the House should concur in thinking that a new building should be erected for their accommodation, his Majesty's Government would certainly do everything in their power to meet their wishes. However, he did not see that the plan of the hon. Member would be followed by any useful result. Whether the majority went out on one side of the House or on the other, they would take the same time in going out, and nothing would be gained in that respect.
 Lord Ebrington,  in reply, observed, that if, with so clever a performer as had tried his hand last night—one who was acknowledged a perfect Paganini—the scheme had proved a total failure, he could not anticipate any success for any future experiment. His own opinion was, that, on any great question, the votes of the Members ought to be known; and the way in which they were published at present was, he thought, sufficient. However, to waive that question, however great might be the duty of maintaining the responsibility of Ministers, the House had another great duty to perform—not to throw any difficulties in the way of transacting the business of the country during the present Session.
 Lord Ebrington  said, that in submitting to the House the Motion of which he had given notice last night, with reference to the Resolution of the House in respect to the method of taking divisions, it would not
 132
 Viscount Howick  said, it was with extreme reluctance that he rose to address the House. On a former evening, after the explanation which had been given by his right hon. friend (Mr. Littleton), it had been with very considerable difficulty that he restrained his feelings; but now that there had been more time to consider the effect of what had been said, he hoped he should be able to avoid anything which would create any difficulty in the way of his noble friend (Lord Althorp), who sat below, and whose Government he was not now less anxious to support than when he had the honour of being officially connected with it. But still he felt, that in what had just passed there were some points which required further elucidation. If he committed any error, he hoped the House would excuse him. He stood in a most difficult situation. He had not been able to consult any individual. Some of his friends remained still connected with Government, and he could not with common delicacy have asked their advice. Still less could he have asked that advice which of all others he should have been most glad to receive, because that individual with whom he was so nearly connected, and whose reputation, if anything could throw a cloud over it, which he did not think was the case, if anything were necessary to set what had passed in a clear light, out of regard to others, that individual would, he knew, have advised him not to speak at all, and would himself not have spoken of anything which might affect others. He thought, however, that in such matters delicacy might be pushed too far; and he must say, although there was much force in the arguments of his right hon. friend (Mr. Littleton) against the three particular clauses in question, and although he too was ready to admit, that in a constitutional point of view, it was most advisable, if possible, to dispense with them, what he wanted to know now was, why those objections had not been brought under the consideration of the late head of the Government before June 23rd. It was stated by Lord Grey in the House of Lords, and that statement had never been denied, that very shortly antecedent to the 23rd of June the question
 170 171
 Lord Sandon  wished the hon. and learned member for Edinburgh to explain the objects of the Bill before he consented to the second reading.
 Lord Stormont  rose to order. He said, it appeared to him, that the hon. and learned Gentleman was about to use language which was contrary to the rules of that House.
 Mr. Tennyson  held in his hand a petition of very great importance; it was upon a subject which had seriously occupied the attention of the public for several days. The facts to which he was about to call the attention of the House were all detailed in the petition; he should state these facts to the House, not that be knew them to be true of his own personal knowledge, but to
 279
 Mr. Baring  said, it was necessary, if the House wished to preserve its own respect—if it wished to preserve the respect of the country, that the matter under discussion should be made a subject of inquiry; because no invasion of the rights and privileges of the people ought to take place without the fullest investigation. This was a question which ought not to be lightly passed over; it involved the most important privileges of that House and of the people. It was for the House to institute an inquiry, and then to determine whether any and what measure ought to be adopted upon it, He would
 303
 Mr. O'Connell  felt it necessary to state to the House the situation in which this Bill was introduced to the House. The second reading of this Bill was now proposed to them under circumstances perfectly unintelligible, without a reference to the Act of last year. In that Act there were certain objectionable clauses. In the Bill now before them some objectionable clauses were omitted, but they had no specific information as to which were to be retained. As the Bill at present stood, an unlimited license was to be given to the soldiery, because no proceedings could be taken at law for any violence or outrage they might commit without the authority of the Attorney General. There was an almost equal protection extended to those Magistrates who might interfere with the liberty of the subject. This was the measure of last year. What, he would ask, was the nature of the measure now before the House? What was the intention of the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) opposite? Did he mean to leave these clauses in the Bill, which he had found it necessary to introduce? If such were the intention of the noble Lord he should feel it his duty to take the sense of the House upon the subject. By the proposed Bill it was to be
 304 305 306 307 308 309 310
 The Attorney General  said, that feeling satisfied the Bill, as now brought forward, was approved of by the general sense of the House, and that it would he carried by a great majority, he did not think that he was called upon to occupy the attention of the House more than a few seconds. The scheme on which the Bill was drawn was this:—So much of the Act of the last Session as was not repealed by the present Bill, was to continue in force for one year longer. But those parts which were repealed were the clauses which had formerly been most strongly denounced in Parliament, and which were looked upon by the country as the most arbitrary and most oppressive. All those portions of the Act which gave the Lord-lieutenant the power of forbidding any meeting which he might consider to be dangerous, ceased, and lie now was only vested with the power of suppressing a meeting which, after it had assembled, assumed an illegal character or resorted to acts which were adverse to the laws, and inimical to the peace of society. In districts which were proclaimed, meetings could not and ought not to be held, without the previous sanction and authority of the Lord-lieutenant. But there were many clauses repealed, as the Courts-martial and other clauses, which were of a harsh and forbidding character. These, which on a former occasion had met with a very serious resistance, were now entirely repealed; and all civil offences were to be adjudicated by the natural and constitutional tribunals of the country. With regard to the two clauses which had been so strongly objected to by the hon. and learned Gentleman, in his opinion, they ought not to be removed—if these did not remain, then would the act be of little or no effect for the objects contemplated by its framers. The hon. and learned Gentleman had himself suggested a clause, which required that in a proclaimed district every householder must give an account of his lodgers, and that in the dead of night they must answer, if called upon—a clause that certainly made the Bill much more efficient for the maintenance of the public tranquillity. But without these clauses the Bill would be of
 311 bonâ fide
 Mr. Lefroy  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Attorney General) had taken great pains to satisfy the hon. and learned member for Dublin, why certain parts of the Bill were maintained, and he (Mr. Lefroy) hoped some reason would be given why his Majesty's Ministers omitted other parts of the measure. He did not rise for the purpose of pressing upon the Government the more coercive parts of the Bill, which had been omitted, but he felt intitled to call upon them to state why they now omitted certain clauses which they had introduced into the Bill in another place? When he said he did not rise to press any unnecessary measure of coercion upon the Government, he hoped he had sufficiently guarded against the misconception and misconstruction into which the hon. and learned member for Dublin had fallen on the night when he (Mr. Lefroy) had last the honour of addressing the House upon the subject. On that occasion he had, as explicitly as he did now, disclaimed urging upon the Government, upon his own judgment, any additional measure of coercion: but he did then, as now, claim, on behalf of the peaceable portion of the inhabitants of Ireland, some satisfactory reason why those parts of the measure which were
 312 De non apparentibus et non existentibus eadem est ratio. 313 314 315
 Mr. Ronayne  declared, that there was no man on earth who could make this measure bearable; it was a complete mass of incongruities. It reminded him of an anecdote told of Pope the poet, who, in his fits of irritation, was apt to use the expression, "God mend me!" Being once much provoked at some clothes that were ill made for him, he vented his spleen against the delinquent artist by exclaiming, "God mend me! Can't you make a better coat than this?" "Mend you, indeed," replied the man, looking archly in his face, "it would be easier to make two new ones than to mend you!" On the same principle, he would say, that it would be easier to make ten fresh Bills than to mend this. He objected, among other things, to the evidence on which Ministers had framed this Bill, but yet, from that very evidence, lie would show, that their Bill was quite unnecessary. Major Miller, the Inspector of Police in the county of Waterford, had stated, that for the last month prior to his writing that Report, there had been a great decrease of crime within that county, notwithstanding the political excitement of an election at Dungarvan. But he was surprised that Government was more disposed to rely on the evidence of stipendiary Magistrates than on the opinions of the Judges of the land, unpaid Magistrates, and country gentlemen, when they premeditated this act of despotism. He would refer Ministers to the charge of Baron Smith last year, and to the opinion of Sir John Harvey, the Inspector-General of Leinster, respecting the state of the county of Wexford, that it was as free from crime and agitation as any part of the empire. The
 316
 Mr. Ruthven  said, he would cheerfully second it. This Bill was unjust and tyrannical—it was not necessary—no reason had been given for its enactment, and, therefore, he would oppose the Bill. The House had no sufficient information upon this subject, and without some acts of kindness, Ireland had no reason to be grateful to his Majesty's Government. Ireland should be treated as England, or else justice would not be done to each impartially. However, on the present occasion he would not further trouble the House.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  wished the House to throw the Bill out entirely. He was sure it would be most beneficial to Ireland that they should do so, for not one drop more of human blood would be shed by its suspension, and perhaps many drops
 317 d. s. d. 318
 Mr. Charles A. Walker  entreated Ministers to follow up the good work they had begun. He hoped they would accede to the request of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, and strike out those clauses objected to by him; in so doing he could see no difficulty whatsoever, they would merely be carrying into effect their own principles, and declared intentions; they had already an-
 319 320 321 l. l 322
 Mr. Henry Grattan  agreed, that parts of this Bill were necessary, but other parts of it were mischievous. He did not deny, that it would stop the disease, but certainly it would not cure it. The evil was deep-seated; it was in the distress of the country, in the want of employment, and in the great population and distress of the people. Surely it was not surprising that there should be discontent and disturbance in a country where the great mass of the people were in a state of such extreme wretchedness. The hon. Member read letters from the county of Mayo, stating an instance of extreme persecution of tenants, and also a letter from the county of Monaghan, stating an instance where a number of people were most cruelly persecuted, because they would not send their children to a Bible school. Surely, under these circumstances, it was easy to see who were the real agitators. Were they not those who persecuted and oppressed the people? The hon. Member mentioned another instance, when 700 persons were by wholesale turned out upon the world. He did not think, that this Bill would effect the object which he had as much at heart as any one—the tranquillization of Ireland. A great number of the disturbances in Ireland arose out of tithe cases; and if the Government wanted peace in the land, they ought to protect as well as coerce the people. He could not support those clauses of the Bill which had been objected to. They ought to keep the absentees of Ireland at home; and instead of making that country a source of weakness, they ought to endeavour to make it a source of greatness to the empire.
 Mr. Callaghan  felt grateful to his Majesty's Ministers for the removal of the clauses of the Bill of last year, which were most decidedly hostile to constitutional liberty; but there were still provisions in the measure before them which would be deservedly unpopular in Ireland. He had in vain looked through the evidence for any justification of them. The only
 323
 Colonel Davies  asked, whether the distribution was to be upon the same scale as that made to the fleet engaged in the battle of Algiers?
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that the precedent of the distribution relative to the battle of Algiers would be followed as nearly as possible upon this occasion. The distribution would be made, not under any Prize Acts, but according to the provisions of an Order in Council. The Commander-in-Chief would receive 7,888 l.; l. l.; l 1.; l.; l. s.; l. s.; l. s.; l. s.
 Mr. Potter  said, that if he had known that so large a sum as 60,000 l.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that if the distribution were to take place under the Prize Acts, the gallant Admiral's share would be larger than it was now proposed to be. It was intimated to the gallant Admiral, that the reduced allowance was considered sufficient, and he immediately admitted that it was.
 Mr. Sheil  thought, that the sum of 4 l. s.
 Mr. Mildmay  said, that however the gallant Admiral might wish to avoid receiving any share of the reward, he was bound, for the sake of those who might succeed him in the service, to accept it. The hon. member for Wigan, who said, he would not have supported the proposition for rewarding the persons engaged in the action if he had thought that 60,000 l.
 Mr. George F. Young  objected to the proposed distribution by which the Admiral would obtain as much as seven years' pay, and a seaman only as much as two months' pay.
 Mr. Goulburn  protested against the principle on which the grant was made. It was establishing a dangerous precedent to make an action, entered into without the distinct authority of the Government, and in consequence of accident, of the same credit as battles fought in the discharge of instructions given to Commanders by the Government.
 Lord Althorp  had opposed the grant originally, but yielded to the almost unanimous feeling of the House.
 Mr. Goulburn  was sure, that the House would have yielded to the noble Lord if he had persisted in his opposition.
 Sir Edward Codrington  said, that he should have had more pleasure in pressing this vote to the utmost if he had been allowed to relinquish his share of the grant; but he had been told, that such conduct on his part would be an unfair precedent for officers who might be subsequently placed in a similar position as he was, and who might not be able to afford such a sacrifice of their claims. He thought that the distribution in the case of the battle of Algiers was a fair one to be adopted in the present instance, for the two battles were fought under circumstances remarkably similar. Lord Exmouth, in the former case received orders to negociate with the enemy, and in default of success by those means, to fight. He (Sir Edward Codrington) had received similar instructions: he bad acted upon them, and it was not till the enemy had fired upon his ships that he acted hostilely towards them. He was prepared to show, that according to the instructions with which he was charged, it was impossible for him to act otherwise than he had done. He would trouble the House by reading the order which he
 325
 Mr. Sheil  said, that in accordance with the views and sentiments he had already expressed, he should move, as an Amendment to the present Motion, in place of the words "to be distributed in such proportions as his Majesty in Council shall direct," the words "to be distributed according to the recent regulations for the division of prize money."
 Mr. Labouchere  interfered. The hon. and learned Member's Amendment would interfere with the undoubted prerogative of the Crown in the disposal of its bounties.
 Colonel Davies  said, that the proposed distribution was an extremely inequitable and unfair one.
 Mr. Labouchere  admitted, that the new prize regulations were much more fair and satisfactory; but it should be recollected, that the battle of Navarino was fought seven years ago, and any bounties which might be given on account of it should be distributed in accordance with the practice and expectations of the parties at the time.
 Mr. Sheil  said, it was very true, that the battle was fought before the new prize regulations were established; but it was also true that the present grant was to be made after these regulations had been adopted, and he could therefore see no reason in equity why its distribution should not be in accordance with them. He would persevere in taking the sense of the House on his Amendment.
 Colonel Davies  said, that there was no analogy between this distribution and that of prize-money. It appeared from the reply of the hon. Member for Taunton that the distribution in the case of Algiers was made out of the droits of the Admiralty, which were, undoubtedly, at the disposal of the Crown. But the present was a grant from Parliament, who had, undoubtedly, a right to have a voice in its distribution.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  said, the gallant Member would find room enough for his display of economy in the English Pension-list without going to Ireland to cut down such a paltry sum. The reductions in Irish expenditure were already carried too far, and caused much dissatisfaction in Ireland.
 Mr. Secretary Rice  said, the present Irish Estimates were fixed by some of the stoutest economists in the House, and
 327
 Mr. Ruthven  said, there could not be worse authority on Irish financial affairs than that very Gentleman. He carried his notions of retrenchment in Irish matters far beyond the mark. He might be a respectable Member and a useful economist in England, but a very bad one for Ireland.
 Colonel Evans  was opposed to military flogging. He was of opinion, it defeated the very object it had in view. It was well known in the army, that a repetition of the punishment hail no effect upon the offender, when once he had become lost to a sense of shame. There was one great difficulty in effecting the object the right hon. Gentleman had in view. He must
 284
 Mr. O'Connell  brought up a Report of the Committee appointed to consider the circumstances of Mr. Daniel Whittle Harvey's exclusion from one of the inns of court, which was read as follows:
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  said, he would not trouble the House with any observations on the present occasion, if any hon. Gentleman during preceding debates had happened to take the same view of the subject with himself; but, as this had not been the case, and feeling, as he did, that Parliament ought not to legislate for the suppression of local disturbances in Ireland, without fully inquiring into the peculiar state of society in that country, which created those disturbances, he should beg to offer a few words. It had been said, that agrarian outrage was intimately connected with political agitation; but when it was considered, that the character of the outrages had been the same for the last fifty or sixty years, he thought, the more correct conclusion would be, that they proceeded from want of sufficient work, of sufficient wages, and sufficient protection to the Irish peasant. The insurrectionary spirit which prevailed now, did not differ from that which had prevailed for the last sixty years. It sprung front the same feeling, and was signalized by the same outrages. The offences of the present day were exactly like the White Boy offences immediately after 1750. The Reports made by Committees of the House confirmed his view. He would refer to the Report of the Committee of 1832, which stated, that the chief cause of disturbance in Ireland was the removal of tenants from their farms.
 287 288 289 d. d. 290
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  had great pleasure in seconding the Amendment proposed by his hon. friend, and he could not do so without, as an Irish member, returning his thanks for the very able manner in which the hon. Member had brought the subject forward. Indeed, he was astonished how the hon. Member, in so short a time, had amassed such a heap of conclusive evidence. The hon. Member had shown—he had at least asserted—and he (Mr. O'Connor) coincided in the assertion—that the outrages which existed in Ireland arose, in a great measure, from the competition for land. The statement of his hon. friend was fully borne out by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (the master of the Mint) (Mr. Abercrombie) in a very able speech which he made the other evening upon the State of Ireland; and he now asked that right hon. Gentleman could he refuse to agree to the Amendment? In Ireland, the most disgraceful means were frequently resorted to in ejecting the tenants from their farms; and the landlord was frequently actuated by the most disgraceful motive. When a tenant became possessed of a farm, if he, by the expenditure of labour and capital improved it, that moment the landlord fixed upon it a jealous eye; and the result generally was, that the occupier was turned out, that the landlord might obtain an additional fine, the price of the tenant's improvement. Ireland had nothing to look to but agriculture; and it was not, therefore, to be wondered at, if outrage was so generally and so intimately connected with it. No doubt, after the conclusion of the hon. Member's speech, proposing, as it did, specifically to pledge the House to relief, no doubt the noble Lord or the right hon. Gentleman opposite would take refuge behind the Commission at present in Ireland. But as yet there was no Report from that Commission; and was it too much to give, at least, a promise of relief, to a people
 291
 Mr. Littleton  said, that as the Amendment had been submitted without any notice, he should not, he thought, be acting fairly towards the House if he were to enter into any discussion respecting it. He regretted that any language had been used which might by possibility be construed into an extenuation of the dreadful atrocities which unhappily were committed in Ireland. The hon. Member argued as if the Whiteboy parties were generally composed of ejected tenants; but, as far as his (Mr. Littleton's) knowledge extended, that description of persons had very little to do with them; in fact, they were for the most part formed of farmers' servants. He once more protested against the course which the hon. Member had pursued in bringing such an important subject before the House prematurely. The Commissioners were prosecuting their inquiries in Ireland, and their Report would be prepared before the next Session.
 Mr. William Roche : Sir, not having had an opportunity of expressing my sentiments on this Bill during its introductory debate, and apprehensive of not being able to stay in town to the conclusion of its progress, permit me to offer a few remarks, considering it, as I do, a measure upon which my constituents and country are entitled to the opinion of their Representatives. I very much coincide in a great portion of what has fallen from the hon. member for Stroud, and from my hon. friend the member for Cork, who have just preceded me, I mean as regards employment and protection for the poor in Ireland; but before I apply myself to that interesting branch of the subject, I shall take the liberty of troubling the House with a few observations on the original and present character of the Bill now before us. When, a short time back, it was expected down from the other House of Parliament, I was amongst those who characterized it, in its then most obnoxious shape, as an unjustifiable and unwarrantable infraction of one of the most essential principles of the Constitution, and one of the most beneficial privileges of the people, "that of freely discussing and meeting to discuss the tenor and tendency of public measures and affairs"—a privilege, Sir, that combines, in a land of freedom, various indispensable advantages, constituting as it does a powerful safeguard of our public rights, exercising a salutary control over the conduct of our public men, affording a valuable opportunity for ascertaining public opinion on passing events, and not unfrequently of thereby correcting our own; and finally presenting a most useful outlet or safety-valve to the fervour of public feeling in moments of public anxiety. These, Sir, are advantages and safeguards which nothing short of the direst necessity would justify the slightest interference with. Sir, I then also designated it as indicating a peculiar and uncalled for disregard of the liberties and feelings of the people of Ireland, because I was of opinion that, under the same circumstances, no such restraint would be interposed to public discussion or complaint in this country—utterly uncalled for, Sir, I assert; for whatever cause or causes may be supposed to have existed when this Bill was originated in the last year, not the slightest has existed or occurred since, not even the shadow of a
 293 294
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  said, no honest man could oppose the Motion. The want of labour was the cause of the miseries of Ireland. If men had no assurance of being relieved by labour they should not be bound by the laws of the land. He was opposed to the Coercion Bill, and he was sure that the noble Lord opposite also disliked it; if he did not, then he had not the same heart in his body that he had twenty years ago. The Coercion Bill did not check predial outrage: it was as bad as ever. There was no use in passing such a Bill. He read of a horrible case of predial outrage which occurred the other day. Thirty men were killed and drowned in the presence of the soldiers and police. He also read of three persons, while in the hands of the police, having been rescued and killed. [Mr.  O'Connell:
 Mr. O'Connell  could not let the Motion pass without saying a very few words. He would, however, trouble the House for only a very few minutes, especially as he should feel it his duty to address it at some length on the question, that the Bill be read a second time, in respect of the clauses which he thought ought to be omitted. He was anxious to see the present Amendment withdrawn, and the more so because it had taken the House unawares, and embraced a great principle which required the most deliberate discussion. He was really astonished at the ignorance displayed by some hon. Members as to the state of Ireland. His hon. friend (the member for Birmingham) had spoken of a lamentable feud lately fought in Kerry, and had treated that as resulting from agitation. It had nothing to do with agitation or predial disturbance. The parties fought for no other reason than that they had different names and liked fighting. It was a deplorable state of things; it could be removed only by a general amelioration of the condition of the country. He must say, too, that he regretted deeply that the language used by some hon. Members might be deemed palliative of the offence of White-boyism. That was most unfortunate. He had ever been most cautious to avoid utter-
 296
 Colonel Evans  expressed his astonishment at the cursory way in which the subject involved in the Amendment had been treated by the Secretary for Ireland. It was perfectly true, that no formal notice of bringing it forward had been given, but the House had a right to expect that a gentleman filling the position held by the right hon. Gentleman would at all times be prepared to go a little more into a matter so deeply interesting to Ireland. He felt grateful to the hon. member for Stroud for calling the attention of the House specifically to the subject, and he thought that some pledge should be given by the Government that it should receive particular notice and be fully inquired into.
 Lord Althorp  said, undoubtedly the question involved in the present Motion was one of the greatest possible importance; and therefore in ordinary circumstances it would require very full and ample discussion. But there were two reasons why it should not be now entertained. In the first place, the House had been taken by surprise, as had already been noticed; and in the second place, so
 297
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  stated, in reply, that he had been prevented from giving notice of his intention to submit his Motion on Friday last; but if the House thought it would be more convenient, he was ready to withdraw it at present, and move a Resolution to the same effect on the third reading of the Bill.
 Mr. Hume  suggested, that the public time might be economized by taking at once the sense of the House upon the question.
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to move, as the right hon. Secretary of War was in the House, that the Report he had that evening laid on the Table be printed.
 Mr. Hawes  bore testimony to the high character and worth of the clergyman who signed the petition.
 Mr. Harvey  was anxious to state, that he had not derived one farthing of benefit from the fund which had been collected at the Crown and Anchor. As to the 500 l. 302
 Mr. Ellice  said, if, after the statement which he should have the honour of making to the House, the hon. and learned Gentleman thought fit to make the Motion, he should have an opportunity of doing so at some later period in the evening without any opposition. For the first time since coming into the House he had just seen, although he was not altogether unacquainted with the fact, that something had passed in the course of the morning, with reference to the subject, in a Committee up-stairs; for the first time, he had just seen the Report which had been presented by that Committee, of which the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. O'Connell) was Chairman. In that Report it was stated, that a noble friend of his had applied to him, as Secretary to the Treasury, for an advance of money by the Treasury, for the purpose of paying the expenses of an election then going on in the borough of Colchester. He had no hesitation in stating to the House, that the facts so stated by his noble friend—he was satisfied quite unintentionally on his part—had been misrepresented, and were totally untrue. It was quite true, that during the course of that year (1831)—a year, he believed, which would be long recollected by the youngest Member in that House—when they, at least those among them who were reformers, were anxiously engaged in the arduous struggle to carry that question on which the previous Parliament had been dissolved, great preparations and exertions were made both by the friends and opponents of that important measure, On the part of its opponents a club was estab-
 299 300 l. Wednesday, May 4, 1831. Dear Sir,—I hope all will go right. I have done everything in my power to contribute to it. 500 l. l., 301 Yours faithfully, E. ELLICE. D. W. Harvey, Esq. Sunday. Dear Sir,—I had written (before opening your letter), according to the wishes of Mr. Western, to Mr. Savill relative to affairs at Colchester, and given him authority to do any thing which I held out to you the prospect of being able to do on behalf of the liberal cause. I hope what has been done will be sufficient. At all events, it is all I have at present in my power; but if you send me up a good account of your proceedings to-morrow, I will urge the Committee to make further exertions. That, however, must depend upon their means and inclination, neither of which are under my control. Yours faithfully, E. ELLICE. D. W. Harvey, Esq.
 Mr. Ellice  would not attempt to say one word in reference to the motives which had induced the petitioners to come forward and represent the case to the
 280 281 282 283
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  trusted, that the right hon. member for Lambeth would not give up the further consideration of the question in consequence of what had fallen from the right hon. Secretary. He had read the account of the sufferings of this poor man, and he thought a more horrible a more appalling account, had never been published. He believed the feelings of the whole country were shocked with the occurrence, and that an investigation was loudly called for. He did not agree with the right hon. Secretary of War, that this was the way to maintain the discipline of the army, which would be better preserved by a remission of the horrible practice.
 Mr. Sinclair  must protest against the assertion, that the doctrine contained in the petitions was the opinion of the majority of the people of Scotland. There were many Dissenters in that country who were adverse to the separation of Church and State.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  had no wish to protract the discussion, but having held two or three offices for a considerable time, he must say, upon his honour, that he had never known a single instance of the public money having been applied in the way alluded to by the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken. He by no means thought the question a light one. At the same time he implicitly believed the statement which had been made by his right hon. friend opposite; and he was satisfied that if the case were referred to the consideration of the Committee of Privileges, (and if he were his right hon. friend he should be most anxious to have it so referred), the Report of that Committee would be, that there was no ground for any further proceedings.
 Mr. Hume  had no hesitation in corroborating the statement that a Committee had sat at the Crown and Anchor for the purpose of receiving subscriptions to be employed in advancing the interest of the Reform Candidates; and he believed that an hon. Member of that House had acted as honorary Secretary on that occasion. He had been anxious to know whether the 500 l.
 Mr. Rigby Wason : Would any one say it was not as notorious as the sun at noon-day that the Government, during recent elections, had been in the habit of assisting Candidates favourable to their own views? Government had been long ia the habit of doing so. He put it to Gentlemen on both sides of the House, if that was not the fact. One advantage, at all events, would arise from the present conversation, namely, that the attention of Parliament would be directed to the expediency of discontinuing the secret service money, or at least of much reducing it.
 Mr. Ewart  was convinced, that other punishments might be found which would be efficient substitutes for flogging, and he trusted that the practice would be abolished.
 Mr. Gillon  presented a number of Petitions, praying for a separation of Church and State. The first was from Lanark; the next was from the Royal Burgh of Hamilton, signed by 2,111 persons, which he had the honour to represent; and the others were from Paisley, signed by 5,100, Criff, Alyth, Leven, Dysart, Montrose, Kibbarchan, Biggar, and Dunning. These petitions, observed the hon. Gentleman, bore the signatures of upwards of 10,000 individuals. He felt assured, that the Dissenters would continue, as they had done to-day, to urge, in a calm and constitutional, but in a firm and determined manner, their claim to relief from the most practical of all grievances—the domination of a favoured sect—and also would continue to urge the great truth, that the
 277 278
 Mr. Robert Palmer  rose to oppose the Motion. The principal grounds of objection to the proposed rail-road were, that the line was incomplete, and that no security was afforded to those who embarked their capital in the project that it would ever be completed. The original prospectus stated, that the line of road would extend from London to Bristol, whereas it was now proposed to carry it from London to Reading, and from Bath to Bristol only, leaving no sort of communication between Reading and Bath. He had opposed the principle of the Bill, upon the second reading, on these grounds, that it was suffered to go into a Committee, and after having been there for the unprecedented space of fifty-seven days, it presented a much stronger case in favour of the opponents to the measure than existed before. It was originally proposed, that Vauxhall should be the London  terminus 335 l 336
 The Marquess of Chandos  seconded the Amendment. The Bill, as now shaped, was totally different from the original project, and he concurred in what had fallen from the hon. member for Berkshire.
 Mr. Gore Langton  gave his most strenuous opposition to the measure. Instead of proving advantageous to the West of England, it would have a diametrically opposite effect. Moreover, it was a most unconstitutional proceeding, and a gross invasion of the rights of private property.
 Sir Richard Vyvyan  gave the Bill his most cordial support. The evidence taken before the Committee was, he stated, of a most conflicting nature; yet it established this fact beyond dispute, that fifty-eight miles of the whole extent of road passed through the lands of those who either assented to the measure or stood neuter, and twenty-one miles through the lands of those who dissented. He would remind the House, that in the Birmingham rail-way the possessors of seventy miles of the road dissented, and forty-two only assented, and yet that Bill had passed, by a great majority. The case made out in support of that Bill was far inferior to the claim of the supporters of this. The hon. member for Berkshire had expressed his surprise that no interest had been taken by the town of Reading, upon which so much benefit would be conferred. He denied, however, that no interest had been taken by that town in the project. Had not a petition, signed by the mayor and 800 of the inhabitants, been presented in favour of the measure? One of the hon. members for Reading had taken a very active part in the Committee on behalf of the scheme; and it could not be supposed he would have done so if it would have been of no advantage to his constituents. He supported the measure because he believed it would not only confer great benefit on
 337
 Mr. Mildmay  was of opinion it would be much better for the south of Ireland if the Bill were not suffered to pass. The House had given its consent to the establishment of a line of rail-road, which would be entirely destroyed if the present scheme succeeded. The landowners had been taunted with coming forward from interested motives, merely to protect their own interests. This was a very serious complaint, because it so seldom happened that the manufacturers, or any other class, were actuated by similar motives. He hoped the House would never sanction so imperfect a measure, which, like a "scotched" snake, with only a head and a tail, and no middle, the projectors imagined would join together of itself, and which, instead of conferring any benefit on the west of England and the south of Ireland, would destroy itself, and another rail-way, that promised the greatest advantages.
 Mr. Methuen  did not impute to the promoters of this measure any intention wilfully to deceive the public; but he assured the House the inhabitants were deluded into a belief that the rail-road would pass through those towns, or they would never have given their support to the project. He had just received a letter
 338
 Lord Lowther  was not one of those who were hostile to the formation of rail-roads in the country. He had himself afforded considerable assistance in passing the Birmingham and Liverpool rail-road, considering them a great improvement to the commerce of the country; but he should oppose the present Bill, because he viewed it as the most offensive and annoying line that could possibly have been proposed. He was of opinion, if the line had commenced at Paddington instead of Brompton, it would have produced much greater advantages to the metropolis, from being a more central point.
 Lord Granville Somerset  totally differed from the view taken by the noble Lord who last addressed the House. The noble Lord had said this was the worst line of road that could have been selected. He gave the noble Lord credit for a great deal of general information, but if he had heard the evidence of ten or twelve very eminent civil engineers, who entertained very different opinions, each having a proposition of his own, and treating the others with contempt, the noble Lord would agree with him, that the recommendation of the Committee was the best course that could be pursued. He believed there was no measure more calculated to be productive of benefit to that part of the country through which it was intended to pass, as well as the whole of the west of England and the south of Ireland; and yet no scheme had ever met with such great and unwearied opposition.
 Mr. Baring  was friendly to a rail-road communication between the metropolis and the west of England, but thought, if two schemes of the same kind were attempted, they would necessarily destroy each other. He did not know which was the best, but as one had already been sanctioned by the Legislature with little or no opposition, and as the other was hostile to the wishes of nine-tenths of those whose property would be affected by it, and was imperfect, he should vote against it.
 Sir Charles Burrell  supported the Amendment, observing, that as the measure had only passed the Committee by a majority of six out of fifty-eight, the decision of the Committee ought not to have very great weight with the House.
 Mr. Pease  said, he should vote for the principle of the Bill, as it had passed the Committee by what he considered a great majority, after a long and deep consideration.
 Mr. George F. Young  objected to the proposition of the noble Lord, as palpably unjust to those Members who had not had an opportunity of bringing forward their Motions, particularly as a critical attention to the Orders showed that they were in many instances no better entitled to the attention of the House than notices. Another reason for his objecting to it was the impracticability of the scheme, for those Members who were disappointed in bringing on Motions in the usual way would certainly bring them on as Amendments on the Orders of the Day.
 Mr. H. Hughes  hoped the noble Lord opposite would not press a Motion that was aimed at the privileges of the House.
 Colonel Evans  agreed with the hon. Member who had last spoken, and thought it absurd to contend against the addition of two or three days to the Session, when that would be ended in ten or eleven days, or at any rate in a fortnight. He had no doubt the hon. Gentlemen opposite would do all they could to shorten it; but the privileges of the House were of more importance than the curtailment of the Session.
 Mr. Sheil  observed, that the Motion came recommended by high authority, as it was brought forward by the son of one Cabinet Minister, and seconded by the son (the Earl of Kerry) of another. Ministers were to blame if the Session was
 340
 Sir Henry Hardinge  was in favour of the motion, but feared it would not succeed in its aim, if notices were brought forward as Amendments on the Orders of the Day.
 Lord Althorp  said, that if the Motion did not meet with the general consent of the House, it would be perfectly useless; but if hon. Gentlemen would really consider what Motions might be brought on without disadvantage next Session, and if they would consent to withdraw mere abstract questions, an understanding might be come to, which would make the motion of his noble friend unnecessary.
 Mr. Hume  hoped that the noble Lord would not call on the House to come to any such understanding. He trusted the House would not give up its rights.
 Mr. Littleton  said, he would prefer having a general understanding at the close of the Session to a precise arrangement. He should wish it to be understood, that it was the opinion of the House collectively that the Orders of the Day should be proceeded with as speedily as possible.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought, that it would be advisable to have all bills withdrawn which had not been read a second time, as there was no chance of carrying them this session. He hoped they would all put their shoulders to the work, and endeavour to get through it with all possible despatch. The Irish Tithe Bill alone would take a considerable length of time.
 Lord Morpeth  would be unwilling to press his Motion to a division against the sense of a majority of the House. He was willing to put it amended after the following manner:—"That for the remainder of the Session Orders of the Day should take precedence of notices on every day of the week, excepting Thursday." If this were not agreed to, he should certainly divide.
 Colonel Evans  hoped, that when the Report of the Corporation Commission was brought before the House, they would not be called upon to decide upon its merits, to come to a result in the same hasty way in which they had been compelled to do with respect to the Report of the Poor-law Commissioners. That Report was very voluminous, and yet before some of the volumes were published, they were called upon to come to a decision. He trusted that this would not occur again; but that, in the instance of Corporation inquiry, proper time would be given for consideration and deliberation before they were forced to legislate.
 Mr. O'Connell  suggested, that there was another ingredient wanting to secure the efficiency of a Commission—namely, sufficient authority. The Commissioners should be entitled to examine witnesses upon oath, and to commit those for contempt who refused to give testimony when called upon. Corporators anxious to shield abuses from the view, he stated, had obstructed the progress of the Commissioners, and made some of them appear inefficient who, if they had had sufficient power, would have done good service.
 The Attorney General  said, that the Law Commissioners had honourably and beneficially proceeded with their labours for the last three years, without pay or the expectation of pay. He stated, without answering for individual members of the Corporation Commission, that the body in general had been most carefully selected by the Government. It should be recollected, that since the days of the Conqueror, when the Doomsday-book was compiled, no such extensive Commission as this Corporation Commission, had been issued.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  objected to the proposed distribution. Out of 60,000 l 1., l s l s
 Mr. Secretary Rice  said, that the grant was made by the House in consideration
 362
 Mr. Hughes Hughes , to afford his Majesty's Ministers the opportunity of considering a more just distribution, begged to move as an Amendment, "That the further consideration of the Report be postponed till Monday next."
 Mr. Secretary Rice  would remind the hon. Gentleman, that the object of his Amendment was to give time to his Majesty's Government to consider this matter, but it was proposed by the hon. Gentleman to give only until Monday next for that purpose; whereas, if the Bill were passed, inasmuch as it left the distribution entirely to his Majesty's Government, they would have as much time for consideration as could be desirable, and a much longer period than the hon. Gentleman himself contemplated.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  was much obliged to the right hon. Gentleman for his instruction, which he was always very ready to afford to Gentlemen sitting on that (the Opposition) side of the House; but he (Mr. Hughes) begged to inform the right hon. Gentleman that he moved the Amendment he proposed to instruct his Majesty's Government to reconsider the subject between now and Monday, and then to report the result of their re-consideration to the House. He would press his Amendment to a division.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, he would show to morrow, when the Bill was to be brought on, that the present proposition should not be adopted, as being calculated to destroy that confidence between the several Boards alluded to, and that confidence between local and inferior departments of Government and the superior, the violation of which tended to impair the public service. It was quite wrong to forestal the discussion that should take place to-morrow. He must oppose the noble Lord's Motion, as to grant it would put an end to all confidential correspondence between the Ministers and the persons under them.
 Mr. Hume  thought, that the course proposed to be pursued by the hon. and learned Gentleman was truly an Irish way of doing business. They ere called upon to go into a Committee that night, and to-morrow they were to receive the information upon which the Motion for that Committee was founded. He would, however, prefer a more simple, and, at the same time, a more regular course. As the question now stood, he felt that they
 348
 Mr. O'Reilly  was anxious to support the Motion, as he considered it preliminary to a Reform in the Irish Court of Chancery.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought the measure highly useful, and one which did not admit of delay. The alterations now in contemplation, would have the effect of making Chancery suits both expeditious and cheap—two great points most desirable to be attained.
 Mr. Francis Baring  said, the plan proposed was, that there should be submitted to the Lords of the Treasury, the amount of compensation considered to be due to each individual, and that they should be at liberty to deal with each case as they thought fit and just.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  was opposed to any measure having for its object the granting of compensation in cases of this description. The true supporters of Reform were bound to oppose all unnecessary expenditure, and upon that ground he would oppose the Motion.
 Mr. Lynch  said, the question for their consideration was, whether any compensation ought to be given, and if so, what the amount of it ought to be in each case. That some compensation ought to be given where injury was suffered, was a point upon which he thought very few hon. Members would entertain a difference of opinion.
 Mr. Hume  said, he understood that six officers in that Court had given 43,000 l
 Mr. Barry  had a petition to present from a district in the county of Cork, praying that that Bill might not be renewed.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that having voted against every clause of the former Bill, he felt equally called upon to give his opposition to that before the House, although it was presented to them deserted of its most objectionable clauses. There were still, however, some clauses in it so objectionable, that he was determined to resist them. The clauses to which he more particularly alluded, were the 12th and the 28th, the one taking away from public officers all responsibility, and the other requiring the sanction of the Lord-Lieutenant to the holding of meetings to petition that House for a redress of grievances. The Bill, but more particularly those clauses of it was, in his opinion, altogether uncalled for, and calculated to irritate and render discontented the people of Ireland. As to the clause taking away responsibility from public officers, he thought it one of a most mischievous tendency. It ought to be known throughout Ireland as well as in this country, that every public servant, from the Crown down to the most humble individual, was responsible for his public conduct. He hoped the noble Lord would consider this matter before he pressed these clauses.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, it was not his intention to divide the House in that stage of the proceedings, as it was his intention to move the omission of certain clauses when the Bill went into Committee. He would, however, take leave to assure the noble Lord opposite, that this measure was a bad remedy with which to attempt to allay or soften down the irritated feelings of the Irish people. If the noble Lord wished to take such a course, he would advise him so to mitigate the Bill as to render it merely a prohibition of, or a punishment for, agrarian disturbance. For God's sake, let it not be said, that the English Legislature was only known to Ireland by the severe, oppressive, and persecuting measures which it enacted against that unhappy country.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he was aware that
 350
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  was determined to oppose the Bill, no matter in what shape it might be brought under the consideration of the Committee. He would oppose it clause by clause, line by line, because he felt convinced that it was altogether uncalled for.
 Mr. O'Connell  asked his hon. friend whether, after having opposed the first clause and defeated it, he would go on to oppose the second, which would then become the first?
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  said, he was at a loss to understand the meaning of the laugh which had been raised against him, and he was equally at a loss to understand how his hon. and learned friend, the member for Dublin, could point out the course he (Mr. O'Connor) meant to take. He would certainly oppose the first clause, and the second clause, and every other which he felt injurious to the feelings and interests of his country.
 Mr. Barron  supported the Motion, and quoted the evidence given by Dr. Doyle, and the reverend Mr. O'Connor in support of his views, that the measure was necessary. He was prepared to oppose that part of the Bill which went against the right of petitioning, inasmuch as he considered it the safety-valve of the Constitution. If you coerced the people, you would drive them to secret associations, than which nothing could be more dangerous. He would put down predial disturbances, but not the right of petitioning. He believed this Bill, with some modifications, and as a temporary measure, would prove a measure of protection and not of coercion.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  said, if all the priesthood in Ireland, and Dr. Doyle to boot, supported the Bill, he would not do so against his conscientious conviction. He must say, that he stood in that House as the Representative of one of the most peaceable counties in Ireland.
 Mr. Ruthven  objected to the clause as unnecessary,
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to propose the modification of which he had given notice. The first clause of the Act to which he had to call the attention of the Committee, was the eleventh. It provided, that it should be unlawful in any proclaimed district to hold any meeting, whether for the purpose or under the pretence of petitioning Parliament or otherwise, unless ten days' previous notice had been given, and the assent of the Lord-lieutenant had been expressed in writing. Such a clause he considered totally unnecessary, and as it was impossible to deny, that it was exceedingly unconstitutional, he trusted there would be no objection to modify it so as not to prohibit meetings convened for the mere purpose of petitioning Parliament. By the Bill, the Lord Lieutenant could capriciously proclaim any peaceable district, and he had proclaimed the city of Kilkenny without any other grounds than an alleged convenience. In such cases, the right of petitioning was taken away. All he proposed was, to keep so much of the clause as would enable the people to petition Parliament in meetings convened without the disapprobation of the Lord-lieutenant. He wished to license no meetings but those held for the purpose of petitioning Parliament; and all he contended for was, that in disturbed districts, no meeting for petitioning Parliament should be prevented, if ten days' notice of it was given to Government. By the first and second of William 4th, which embodied all the Whiteboy Acts, it was provided that a person making use of inflammatory language, to excite any one to the commission of disturbances, or any Whiteboy offence, should be liable to transportation. They had, therefore, a very good safeguard against the introduction of exciting topics at meetings convened to petition Parliament on subjects connected with the Church and State. By the previous notice of the meeting, the Government would be enabled to send their policemen and note-takers to the assembly, and the law left the power of adopting a legitimate course for punishing any one who was bold enough to make use of inflammatory language. He submitted, therefore, to the House, that the law was strong enough as it stood. He had drawn up a clause to the effect, that all meetings should be held for the purpose of petitioning Parliament,
 352
 Mr. Littleton  said, it would be highly inexpedient to omit the clause as it stood in the Bill. There was no practical evil, in consequence of no political meetings having taken place in the proclaimed districts; and, so far as that went, he could not accede to the Amendment of the hon. and learned Gentleman. He should be sorry to throw any obstacles in the way of exercising the right of petition, but he certainly would object to inflammatory meetings. In the Baronies of Delvin and Ballibeg, there was decided insubordination, and as such they were properly proclaimed.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the few remarks of the right hon. Gentleman were in favour of his Amendment. All that he required was, that the people should have the right to petition Parliament at an open meeting. The value of public meetings was to act upon this House and the Government, for if it had not that effect, the right of petition would be of no use.
 Lord Althorp  said, in an ordinary case he would not support the clause in this Bill; but the question was whether, in a proclaimed district, public meetings should be held tending to disturb the public peace? He considered it would be imprudent to omit the clause, although the hon. and learned Gentleman said, that persons using exciting language would be liable to punishment under the Whiteboy Acts. In that doctrine he could not agree; but this he would say, that no Lord-lieutenant would proclaim a county or a district merely to prevent public meetings. For these reasons, he would support the clause as it now stood.
 Mr. Sheil  said, that in all the Insurrection Acts for Ireland, from 1796 to 1833, there was no such clause as that which the present Government now called for. In 1812, the Catholic Board and Committee was put down by the law of the land. Mr. Saurin, the then Attorney General, asked for no new law; but the then Secretary of State for Ireland called for a new Bill—an Insurrection Act—and he readily obtained it. Agitation was then put down in Ireland, although a class of persons, called "Carders," had committed outrages in various parts of the North of Ireland. In 1807, 1813, 1822 and 1824, a series of measures were brought forward by the Tories to put
 353 ex mero motu,
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  entreated of his Majesty's Ministers not to persevere in this clause. The object of all laws should be the prevention of evil, and it was clear, that this clause would not prevent the recurrence of those evils which it was designed to meet. It would have no effect in putting down the meetings of the people. In the year 1822, when Ireland was almost deluged with blood in the conflicts that took place between his Majesty's troops, and the people in that country, when the people were regularly encamped and came forth in battle array to meet the soldiers, the Tory Government of that day never thought of having recourse to such an Act as this. So far from this clause preventing meetings, it
 354
 Sir Robert Peel , considering that the most important clauses of this Bill, the Court-martial clause, and the political clauses, had been omitted, thought it would have been far better if his Majesty's Government had brought in a new Bill altogether, with the clauses that were deemed necessary to preserve tranquillity in the present state of Ireland, than to have altered the present Bill in such a manner as to render it almost unintelligible. This was a penal enactment, which ought to be clear and defined, whereas, by leaving several of the clauses of the other Bill, part whole, and part mutilated, the law was made a mass of confusion. It was usual to look at the preamble to a Bill, to know its meaning: by the present Bill, the whole of the preamble of the former Bill was left in full force, and referred to: three-fourths of this preamble were directed against large assemblages of the people; and yet it was not now intended, as it appeared, to interfere with these meetings. Of some clauses three-fourths were struck out, of other clauses two-thirds, but none were repealed in a clear or satisfactory manner; so that, in his opinion, it would not be possible to carry this new Bill into execution. One Act said, that the Lord-lieutenant should not have the power to prevent meetings of the people for certain purposes; but another Act said, that he should have the power to withhold his consent from such meetings. That was confused and contradictory, and left in doubt the provisions of a penal statute, that should never be obscure. By leaving out certain clauses, the Government admitted, that they did not believe there was any connection between political and agrarian disturbances in Ireland, and yet by another new clause they said there must be that connection, for they gave the Lord-lieutenant the power to with-hold his consent to the holding of meet-
 355 "Hear, hear."
 The Attorney General  said, that if the right hon. member for Tamworth had devoted himself to the law he would have been an admirable hand at arguing special demurrers. If Judges were to argue as the hon. Baronet had argued, this law would never be carried into effect; but Judges would not so argue because they would be actuated by a sense of justice, and put a fair construction on the language of the Legislature. It was better to study brevity than have a long Act which might occasion doubts. By the manner in which this short Act was drawn, no man who proceeded reasonably, and who sincerely wished to discover its meaning, could have the slightest difficulty in putting the correct construction upon it. All the clauses which gave the Lord-lieutenant the power of preventing public meetings, in any districts in Ireland, which were not proclaimed, were repealed—all the clauses which related to the trial of
 356 Dublin Gazette 357
 Mr. Denis O'Connor  said, that this clause was wholly unnecessary, and, let what might be said of it, tyrannical. He hoped the Government would withdraw it.
 Sir Robert Peel , while he thanked the hon. and learned Attorney General for the lecture he had read him as to the model he should adopt in his Parliamentary conduct, begged the hon. and learned Gentleman would excuse him if he took his own course. The Committee was now discussing a clause of the Bill, which he considered to be drawn up in a most clumsy form, and he was directing his attention to that which was the particular duty of the hon. and learned Gentleman, and considering what appeared to him a most blundering specimen of legislation. There was a preamble to the Bill, of course, but it was a preamble which suited the Bill of 1833, and did not suit the measure which the Committee was now discussing; and, when he referred to this, he was told by the hon. and learned Gentleman that such was the meaning of the Legislature in 1833, but not now. There was a positive enactment in the Bill, that the Lord-lieutenant should not have power to prevent any meeting in Ireland. He understood what the hon. and learned Gentleman said the Bill was intended to mean, but he considered it obscure. When he supported the Bill, he said in express terms that he did so because he considered political disturbances connected with agrarian disturbances, and thought that this measure would in some degree remedy them; but he thought it would be more consistent with the dignity of the Government to do that directly which this clause did indirectly.
 Mr. O'Reilly  said, the Bill was full of doubt and mystification, particularly this clause. Penal laws should not he left in such a state. As Ministers had once passed the Rubicon, it would have been better if they went further. They would get no credit for what they left out, but have all the odium of a Coercion Bill.
 Mr. Charles Buller  contended, that the clauses were sufficiently clear; and no confusion could arise from applying the preamble of the Bill of 1833 to the present Bill. He opposed the Bill of 1833, because he did not think political agita-
 358
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Attorney General) admitted, if he heard him correctly, that the Lord-lieutenant would be liable to impeachment if he proclaimed a district for the purpose of preventing meetings, a district not openly in a state of disturbance, in which martial law might be proclaimed. Now, the right hon. Secretary for Ireland admitted that Balliboy was not disturbed; and yet it was proclaimed, because it was situated between two districts that were disturbed. How was this contradiction to be explained?
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that to say that there was any connexion between political and agrarian disturbances showed either the grossest ignorance of the present and former states of Ireland, or a wilful attempt to delude the people of England on the subject; for there never were two subjects more distinct.
 The Attorney General  defended the clause, and said it was intended as a sequel to the Court-martial clause, and to protect the military when acting without malice, and merely in the execution of their duty. If they did anything contrary to military discipline, they would still have to be tried by the ordinary tribunals. This protection was, therefore, necessary to enable the military to do their duty with firmness and constancy.
 Mr. O'Connell  offered to consent that there should be a clause substituted in the Bill, that it should be a good defence in any Court of law, civil or criminal, that the acts done had been done  bonâ fide
 The Attorney General  said, that a similar proposition had been made last year, and the answer given to it then, was the answer he would give to it now—namely, that the words introduced into this clause were well known, time out of mind, as settled terms in Courts of Justice in England and Ireland; and that it was better to adhere to words of a well-known and defined interpretation, than to have recourse to a new form of words. Every lawyer knew that, notwithstanding the existence of this clause in the Bill, an action could be brought against a man, in any of the Four Courts in Dublin, for acts done under this Bill; and that the only defence he could set up would be, that such acts had been done  bonâ fide
 Mr. Serjeant Perrin  declared, that by
 360
 Mr. O'Connell  offered to withdraw the Amendment for the present, and propose it again on bringing up the Report, if his Majesty's Government would intimate that, in the meantime, the clause should be taken into consideration, as to whether it should be acceded to or not.
 The Attorney General  called the attention of the learned Sergeant who spoke last but one to the words preceding those that he had quoted, and he would find, that an officer was only to be questioned by Court-martial for anything done "in pursuance of this Act." Of course, if he did anything not in pursuance of the Act, he might be questioned for it in a Court of Law.
 Mr. Charles Buller  said, that the clause would then be useless; for without it, a party accused might plead, that what he had done was done in pursuance of the Act.
 The Attorney General  said, that no doubt but he might; but, if he happened ever so innocently to exceed the powers of the Act, his plea would be good for nothing.
 Mr. Ronayne  thought, that one o'clock in the morning was not a fit hour to proceed with a discussion like this, and should, therefore, move, that the Chairman do report progress.
 Mr. Littleton  said, he thought that, after the discussion they had had, they were ripe for the decision of this clause. When they employed soldiers in a service of this kind, they were bound to give them every possible protection against acts of inadvertence. The Bill, as it stood, would do that, whilst it would not protect them in any wanton exercise of power.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  thought the proposition of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, to let the matter stand over for the present, a fair one.
 Mr. Sheil  said, that all they wanted was to give the Government an opportunity
 361
 Lord Althorp  did not pretend to the knowledge of the law possessed by the hon. and learned Gentleman who had conducted the discussion on this clause; but he would adopt the view taken by the Attorney General, more especially as it appeared, that the clause did not partake of the objection which lay against Courts-martial. The objection against Courts-martial was, that civilians would be tried before them; whereas, the present clause only subjected the soldiery to the jurisdiction of this court.
 Lord Althorp  said, he should have no objection, as there were conflicting opinions delivered by legal gentlemen on the tendency of the eleventh clause, to allow this clause to stand over till the bringing up of the Report.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, upon that understanding, he should withdraw his Amendment. He had, however, objections to the 27th and 31st clauses, which he should press upon the proper occasion.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, his hon. friend could not be more anxious than he was himself that the highly valuable Report of Messrs. Villiers and Bowring should be perused without unnecessary delay by the House. He believed he could show, however, that no blame could fairly be attached to him, or any in his office, for the delay which had hitherto taken place. It was some time since he
 346
 Mr. George Frederick Young  admitted, that the establishment of a more liberal commercial policy between France and England was highly to be desired, provided both countries united in carrying such liberal views into effect. But he thought that a commercial treaty would be a far better mode of ensuring such a mutual line of accommodation than by leaving it to the discretion of France to follow or not as her government pleased the liberal policy which England had already extended to her.
 Mr. George F. Young  objected to the grant being treated on the principle of the Proclamation Act. There was no analogy between it and capture or prize-money: it was an act of bounty, to which former precedents would not apply; and it ought to be distributed so as to afford larger shares to the poor men who took part in the battle.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  observed, that the system of acquiring information by Commissioners was a desirable one; but that the efficiency of the mode depended upon the character and efficiency of the persons employed. It would appear from public report, that some very improper persons had been placed upon the Corporation Commission.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, all that was asked was, that it should be left to the Crown to distribute the money in the manner that it might consider most advisable. He ought to add, however, that the Crown would most likely act on the recommendation of the Lords of the Admiralty, who had given their attention to the subject, and who were of opinion, that the money ought to be distributed in the proportions in which the prize-money was distributed after the battle of Algiers. Between that battle and the battle of Navarino there was a great resemblance, and the distribution in the former case gave perfect satisfaction.
 Mr. Labouchere  hoped he might be allowed to bring up the Report of the Committee of Supply, in order that the men interested might receive their shares immediately.
 Mr. J. Kennedy  said, it might appear ungracious of him to proceed with his Motion after the vote to which the House had just come but he did so without the intention of pressing it. He was only anxious to obtain information, and he felt, that the question was not likely to occupy much time. He proposed to move for a Select Committee to consider the expenses incurred and the services rendered to the country under the several Commissions of Inquiry, and certain other Commissions now existing, with a view to the discontinuance of such as shall be found unnecessary or inexpedient, particularly that for building additional churches. He was aware that at this late period of the Session he could not expect that a Committee would be granted; but he was most anxious to call the noble Lord's (Lord Althorp's) attention to the subject, which was one of very great importance. A number of Commissions were now in existence, and had been in existence for a long time past —the Charities Commission, the Corporation Commission, the Record Commission, the Law Commission, and the Commission for building additional Churches. Now, he should wish much to know what were the merits and what were the benefits which had arisen from these Commissions to compensate the country for the immense sums of money which had been expended. By the one Commission—that for building additional Churches—1,500,000 l 342 l l l
 Mr. Wilks  bore testimony to the dissatisfaction which generally prevailed on account of the slowness of the Corporation Commission and other Commissions, especially the Charity Commission.
 Mr. Hume  rose, according to notice, to move that Copies of the Report of Messrs. Villiers and Bowring on Foreign Commercial Relations, and of the Reports from the Commissioners of Inquiry into the Excise, be laid before the House for the use of the Members. The hon. Member observed, that the first Commission in question had been appointed in the year 1831, and the information which they had collected was necessarily of a highly interesting and valuable nature, yet, up to the present moment, no Copies of it had been placed in the hands of the Members of that House. It appeared from part of the Commissioners' Report, that the Government of France had evinced every disposition, far beyond what had been expected of them, to follow the example of England in the liberal policy which she had recently adopted. He hoped, therefore, that the noble Lord opposite would continue in the course he had commenced, and forthwith remove the shackles and impediments which still remained to interfere with it. With regard to the Excise Commission, eight Reports were understood to have been already sent in by them. He wanted to know whether Government had acted upon, or intended to act upon, any of their recommendations? In any case it was highly important that Members should make themselves masters of the subject before Parliament reassembled, and he hoped the Reports in question would be put into their hands.
 Mr. Hume  complained, that the servants of the House should have neglected to deliver the Copies of the Report in question, which, it appeared, had been in their hands some time.
 Mr. Hume  seconded the Motion. His hon. friend could not have a Select Committee this Session, but he wished the noble Lord would make inquiries during the recess touching the slow progress of those Commissions. He particularly alluded to the Law Commission and the Charities Commission.
 Mr. Sheil  considered this a pure act of honesty on the part of the House; and, under all the circumstances, the grant ought not to be subject to the Prize Act.
 The Speaker  explained to the hon. Member, that any papers or Reports which were printed by the parliamentary printer, and under the authority of the House, it was the duty of himself, as Speaker, to cause to be distributed without delay. But papers which, like the present Report, were printed by the Government it was the business of Government to distribute; and they had just as much, and more, means of so doing as he or the House had. The Report in question had been sent down to one of the officers of the House, without any communication having been made to the House of such having been done. There, therefore, existed no authority by which the printed Copies could be distributed
 347
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the services of the Law Commissioners had been most disinterested and most valuable for the last three years, and he knew not on what principle it was, they were unrewarded. His experience did certainly contradict the common charge preferred against lawyers, of being unwilling to improve the law. As to the hon. Gentleman's Motion, he thought it a very proper one, and hoped he would renew it next Session. He would advise him, however, to alter the terms. He did not think "services" was a good word. It was too vague. It would be difficult to Report concerning "services." He would suggest to him to move for a Select Committee to inquire what practical recommendations had been made by the several Commissions, and when and to what extent they had been carried into effect by the Legislature. While expressing his approbation of Commissions as a mode of obtaining information in certain cases, he must at the same time express his hope that they might not fall into the constant habit of making use of Commissions, and so throwing their own business upon other shoulders. It was difficult, he admitted, to make a general rule on the subject. Measures, however, should be taken to prevent the constant recurrence to Commissions, which would leave the
 345
 Lord Althorp  observed, that as the hon. Gentleman did not propose to press for a Committee this Session, it was unnecessary for him to say a word upon the subject. He concurred with the hon. member for Middlesex in stating, that
 343
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  said, he stated the man had forty times suffered punishment; he did not say he had been flogged so often.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  said, it was not his intention to have addressed the House on this subject, but owing to the absence of his right hon. friend the Secretary at War, he thought it was of the greatest consequence no time should be lost in making the public acquainted with the real facts of a case, which had been made the ground of accusations as calumnious, false, and libellous, as ever had been circulated against the gallant and high-minded officer, whose duty obliged him to superintend the punishment inflicted on the soldier in question. He would not condescend to notice the foul and slanderous attack that had been made in one of the lowest Sunday papers upon the character of his gallant relative; but he would content himself with simply laying before the House the facts of the case. In the first place, the sentence upon the individual in question was passed by a district court-martial, and not by a regimental court-martial; and every member who was connected with the service knew that it was not in the power of the commanding officer to correct or mitigate the sentence of a district court-martial, except under particular circumstances, such as the presence of the surgeon, and his stating that the individual was not capable of bearing further punishment. The sentence upon the individual in question
 369 370
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  denied, that Colonels and Admirals were the only persons capable of forming a correct opinion on this
 374
 Colonel Evans  remarked, that it was understood from the right hon. Secretary at War on Monday last, that the Commission about to be issued would not be composed entirely of military men.
 Mr. Tennyson  observed, that he had not been induced to take up this question as a personal matter, but entirely on public grounds, nor did he impute the slightest blame to Colonel Bowater; on the contrary, he was much gratified at the high character which had been given to him for honour and humanity. He should be one of the last in that House to do anything that might have a tendency to decrease the good discipline of the army; but he felt that he should not discharge his duty if he did not denounce this horrible practice, and call upon the House to abolish it. Notwithstanding what had been said, it still appeared to him that the infliction of so severe a sentence was a great and unnecessary cruelty. If the man had committed forty different offences, and been as frequently punished, he thought the proper course to be pursued was, to eject him from the army, instead of awarding a punishment so unequal and so revolting to human nature. He believed, if the House suffered this punishment to continue harrowing the feelings of the people, it would create a great reaction in the army, subvert the discipline, and
 376
 Mr. Ruthven  was anxious to know, whether the drummers were changed at every ten lashes, instead of the usual practice of changing them at every twenty-five. He contended, that a man who had shown himself so unfit for the public service ought
 377
 Mr. Lennard  trusted, that the hon. member for Lambeth would not suffer the House to separate without obtaining a resolution of the House, expressing its condemnation of the practice, and declaring that it should no longer continue, or at any rate that the Session should not close without an expression of the opinion of the House that the practice should be greatly restricted. He considered it a mere waste of time to appoint a Commission, every man's mind being made up with respect to the principle.
 Mr. Tennyson  was not disposed to throw any impediment in the way of the Government, and as their opinions had been so strongly expressed against the practice, he did not think it necessary to carry the matter further; but if any delay occurred, he should feel it to be his duty to move an Address to the Crown.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that as Chairman of the Select Committee to inquire into the regulations of the Inns of Court it had devolved on him to lay before the House a first Report of the labours of that Committee as far as they had then gone. That Report was found to contain the particulars of a transaction involving one of the grossest charges of breach of privilege that had ever been brought under the notice of the House. He felt that he should not be discharging his duty if he did not call the attention of the House to the circumstances to which he alluded. The facts deposed to before the Committee were these—that a Gentleman who at the time referred to, held the situation of one of the Secretaries of the Treasury was written to by a Gentleman then interested in the election going on for the borough of Colchester, for the remittance of a sum for the purpose of supporting the cause of one of two Gentlemen then Candidates for that borough. He admitted, that controversy might exist as to which of those Candidates this money was destined to support, or whether it was for the benefit of both of them; but there was no pretence for disputing the fact, that 500 l 378 379
 Mr. Tennyson  coincided with the noble Lord, that a sufficient case to call for the appointment of a Committee had not been made out. He thought, in fact, that it would be impossible for the House to send the case to a Committee after the statement of the right hon. the Secretary at War, without, in point of fact, conveying an opinion that they discredited that statement. His hon. and learned friend had undoubtedly brought forward the question with much fairness. He refrained from stating any of the charges, and put to issue the simple question whether or not the money advanced had been advanced from the public funds? He was a member of the Committee sitting upon the Inns of Court, and he had no hesitation in stating, that no evidence had been givn before that Committee to justify
 381
 Colonel Evans  supported the Motion. Instead of the direct opposition which the Members on the Ministerial Bench seemed inclined to give it, he thought that at least they should propose, by way of amendment, some measure of less formality in accordance with the objects of the hon. and learned Mover.
 Mr. Tennyson  seconded this Amendment.
 Mr. Wynn  said, that if they were now to decide that the denial of a fact by a Secretary of the Treasury was, in consequence of his high character, to overbear evidence and silence inquiry, it would establish a precedent mischievous in the extreme. Hereafter, if they were to institute any inquiry after a Secretary of the Treasury had uttered a denial of the charge, whatever it might be, it would be fairly considered as an insult to that Gentleman. The evidence was to the effect, that Lord Western, when a commoner, had applied to the Treasury for money for election purposes, and that money was accordingly supplied for these purposes on his application by the Treasury. These, he maintained, were sufficient grounds for instituting the inquiry which was demanded. It had been contended, that there was no difference between the testimony of Lord Western, and the statement of the right hon. Gentleman; but there was: and that difference was obvious.
 384 385 bonâ fide l 386
 Mr. Secretary Rice  said, that if the case stood as the right hon. Gentleman who spoke last had put it, he should not, perhaps, dissent from the conclusion at which the right hon. Gentleman had arrived. The right hon. Gentleman, however, had not brought before the House the real state of the case, an omission which he would supply, and then leave them, acting judicially, to determine, whether it was a case which would justify the appointment of a Committee of Inquiry. He would not contend, that this was a question which ought to be decided upon a principle of confidence in the present Ministry. He would argue the case as he would if he had no confidence in the Ministry whatever. He undoubtedly had confidence in the individual accused, and his personal character was sufficient to convince him at once, that the statement which had been made respecting him was incorrect. The right hon. member for Montgomeryshire attempted to draw a distinction between the testimony of Lord Western and the Secretary-at-War, by observing, that the former was entirely disinterested, whilst the latter had a distinct personal interest in the matter. Observe to what a conclusion that observation would lead. If the evidence of his right hon. friend was to be considered that of an interested party, it would be necessary to exclude it altogether, although the decision of the question must principally depend upon his explanation of what he did and said in the transaction. Undoubtedly, the statement made by a Member in his place in that House was always considered entitled to great weight. The principle which the right hon. Gentleman
 387 Wynn: Wynn 388 389
 Mr. Wynn  said, in explanation, that the right hon. Gentleman appeared to have misunderstood what had fallen from him. He never proposed that the House should proceed against the Secretary at War without hearing him in his defence. If a Committee should be appointed, they would doubtless hear the right hon. Secretary's statement, and examine any evidence which he might bring forward. He could not consider the letters which the right hon. Secretary had read as part of his speech evidence, unless they should be laid upon the Table. The noble Lord opposite would recollect, that Mr. Canning, when Secretary of State, proposed to read a letter in his speech in defence of the conduct of Government, but he was informed, that it could only be received as part of his speech, unless it were laid upon the Table. He really had not seen the letters in the newspapers, but be their contents what they might, it was desirable, for the sake of the right hon. Secretary's character, that, as the charge had been put upon record, his defence should be put on record also.
 Mr. Baring  said, that Parliament should not allow itself to be diverted from its duty by any special pleading or rhetoric on the opposite side. It should look to such conduct as that of the right hon. Secretary, not with confidence, as was claimed for it, but with vigilance and jealousy. The right hon. Gentleman had the secret service money in his hand, and could dispose of it without responsibility or check. He gave a sum of money to meet the election expenses of an avowed supporter of the Government; and though he said that sum was drawn from a private fund, yet what could prevent the public from supposing, that it was given by Government for the purpose of promoting its own interested views? The fact of an application of a sum of money by the Secretary of the Treasury for securing the return of a friend to Government, was proved by Lord Western, and was admitted by the Secretary himself. The gravamen of the whole charge rested on the admission of the right hon. Gentleman—for, by his own showing, he was guilty of a gross breach of privilege, and the House would grossly neglect its duty if it overlooked such a case. In what situation would the House be placed if it followed the advice of those hon. Gentlemen who were friends to Government, and rested satisfied with the explanation of the right hon. Secretary? He was astonished that Ministers should so far trifle with the privileges of Parliament, and Whig Ministers too, as to advise such a course. How did the facts stand? Supposing the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary
 391 l 392 393
 Mr. Ruthven  did not think, that a sufficient case had been made out for further inquiry. If any Gentleman would state, on his honour, that he was prepared to bring forward any evidence on the subject, he would vote for further inquiry; but that not being the case, he should oppose it.
 Colonel Evans  must support the Amendment; but he wished that his hon. and learned friend would withdraw his Motion, and not force on a division.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he wished to adopt the advice given him, and withdraw his Motion. He could, however, do no such thing. He spoke not merely upon his sense of duty as chairman of the Committee making the Report; but also as a Member of that House bound to consider the matter. It appeared to him to involve a plain Breach of Privilege. The Committee appointed to investigate the case of the hon. member for Colchester had no authority to demand a copy of the correspondence of Lord Western. If they had they would have insisted on its production. The answers of the Secretary at War to that correspondence slid not satisfy him of the innocence of the right hon. Gentleman, nor did he believe they would satisfy the public. Certain documents which were calculated to throw light on the matter, were admitted to exist, and without their production he did not think it would be possible altogether to acquit the Government of all participation in the charge brought against them in the person of the right hon. Secretary of War.
 398 399 400 parmulâ non relictâ
 The Attorney General  said, as he had been so pointedly alluded to, both by the hon. mover and the hon. seconder of the Motion, he hoped for the indulgence of the House, whilst he defended himself from the attack which had been made upon him. It might be enough to state, that this  exofficio True Sun. 404 405 True Sun. 406 407 True Sun 408 409 410 bonâ fide ex-officio ex-officio ex-officio 411 "Read! Read!" "No! No!" "No, no!" 412 413
 The Attorney General:  The hon. Member no doubt had told the truth, but not the whole truth. There was a great difference between the letter to Edinburgh and the letter to Dudley. In this, which was strictly a private one, the hon. Member said, he would not give his advice unless it were asked; but the letter which he wrote to Edinburgh was read from the hustings, and placarded over the whole town, which he was sure would not have been done by the respectable individual to whom it was addressed if he had not had the hon. Member's consent.
 The Attorney General  rose in explanation. The right hon. Baronet had misunderstood him in supposing that he had stated, that he never would prosecute a libel, however gross, on either House of Parliament. The sentiment which he had expressed was this—that he should be reluctant to prosecute for anything said by constituents of their Representatives, for, in his opinion, they ought to have free opportunity to discuss the proceedings of both Houses of Parliament. With regard to the occurrence of public meetings, he had said, that no account of what took place there could be procured for the Government except through the agency of spies and informers, whom he should be sorry to employ, and that great latitude ought to be given to the speakers who took part in them; but to say that he never would prosecute a man for seditious words used at a public meeting, would be to hold language which would be very unbecoming in him, considering the situation which he had the honour to hold. He had never used the language imputed to him by the right hon. Baronet.
 An Hon. Member  also expressed his intention to support the Motion; for he thought, that what was sauce for the goose ought also to be sauce for the gander. In supporting the Motion, he did not mean to say, that the prosecution was improperly instituted, but he recollected the example which had been set by others, and also the great excitement which prevailed at the time of the publication of the libel
 418
 Mr. O'Connell  proposed the omission of such portions of the 28th and 31st clauses as, in point of fact, suspended the Habeas Corpus Bill all over Ireland; for the effect of the enactment was, that any person who happened to be arrested could be kept in gaol without bail or mainprize, though the offence of which he was accused should be bailable. There was nothing in the state of Ireland to justify this, and he therefore trusted that there would be no objection to expunge those two clauses from the act. He should bring up the following clause:—"Be it enacted, that all such provisions of the Act as make it a good and sufficient return to a writ of Habeas Corpus, that the party in question is detained by virtue of the powers conferred under the Disturbances Suppression (Ireland) Bill, are hereby repealed."
 The Attorney General  said, that if the provisions to which the hon. and learned Gentleman objected were omitted under the clause now brought up, the effect would be not to mitigate, but aggravate, the severity of the Act. The hon. Member proposed to expunge a provision which prevented any person from being kept in prison for a longer period than three months without trial, and the result would be, that prisoners might be detained six or nine months waiting for the assizes. The
 424
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he meant his clause to apply only to bailable offences.
 Sir Robert Peel  expressed his surprise that the House should consent to discuss a Bill of such importance without having a copy of it before them. He defied any one to follow or understand the discussion under existing circumstances. The House ought not to renew a Bill of which so much was altered and repealed, without having the measure distinctly before them in the shape in which it was now proposed to be enacted. What objection could there be to placing the Bill on the Table in such a form as to be intelligible to Members, to the Magistrates who were to administer it, and to the people who were to obey it? It was a mockery of legislation to tell the people of Ireland that they were bound to obey the law, and then refer them for its provisions to the statute of 1833 in the first instance, and afterwards to this Bill, telling them to pick out the meaning of both, and conjecture the object and intent of the Legislature as well as they could from a comparison of the two statutes. The hon. and learned Gentleman opposite seemed to be exceedingly enamoured with a short bill; but there was no advantage in brevity that could compensate for the absence of clearness and perspicuity.
 The Attorney General  said, that the House was in precisely the same situation now as on former occasions, when it had been proposed to continue Acts of Parliament, repealing certain clauses. The statutes which were known so generally, and so creditably to the right hon. Baronet, under the title of "Peel's Acts," repealed some statutes entirely, and repealed others partially, leaving the remainder of the latter in force; but this was never considered any objection to them on the score of want of perspicuity. He admitted, that hon. Members could not well understand the discussion, if they had not the original Bill before them; but every Member had been furnished with a copy, and ought to be able to refer to it.
 Mr. Thomas Wallace  said, that if the debate of the former night were compared
 425
 Mr. O'Reilly  objected to the Habeas Corpus Suspension Clause, since by it innocent persons might be taken up, and, as they would not be allowed to put in bail, the consequence was, that they would be kept in prison until the time of their trials.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  began to address himself to the conduct of the police towards his tenantry at Monaghan, when
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to order, and put it to his hon. friend whether there was not enough in the question itself to occupy the House, without introducing extrinsic matter.
 Mr. Grattan  would go into the case on the Report.
 Mr. Lynch  contended, that under the circumstances, the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act, would be unprecedented. It was uncalled for, and unnecessary. He, last year, called upon his Majesty's Ministers to state a single reason to justify the suspension of this sacred right of the people. No answer was then given to him. He now repeated the same question, and he did expect some cause to be assigned before the House would consent to this direct infringement of the liberty of the subject, this gross violation of the Constitution. It was contended last year, that there was political agitation in Ireland, which ought to be put down, and to justify that assertion, his Majesty's Ministers referred to the meetings then held in Ireland, and the political associations then existing in that country. It was stated, that there was predial agitation in Ireland which ought be repressed. But to justify this suspension, there was not even an attempt made in the way of argument or reason. He opposed the clause last year, and he would now oppose it. If they referred to history, they would not find any analogy between the present and any other case in which the Habeas Corpus Act was suspended in this coun-
 426 427 428
 Mr. Sheil  called upon the Government to bring forward the Bill with the clauses in it, so that the House might have an opportunity of discussing its provisions in detail, and not be called upon to enact them in the mass, as was proposed. He contended, that it was against the law to suspend the Habeas Corpus Act beyond the time at which parties had a right to claim their trial before the Judges. He gave notice that he should move on the report, that the Government be called on to re-enact the Coercion Bill clause by clause.
 Mr. Littleton  opposed the insertion of the clause, as it was calculated to defeat one of the leading features of the measure, and thereby make it inefficient.
 The Attorney General  remarked, that no hardship to innocent parties could ensue from the re-enactment of the original clause, as it would be necessary to satisfy a Jury that fires were lighted and other signals made for the purpose of giving signals of an illegal Act before any conviction could take place.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  remarked that parties who joined in the customary celebration of St. John's Eve, and other anniversaries, might be liable to punishment under the original clause, and he should therefore support the Amendment.
 Mr. Young  objected to proceeding with this Bill at so late an hour (2 o'clock). He should move, that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 Mr. Wolryche Whitmore  explained that the object of the Bill was, to introduce a better principle of colonization into our system, which, if successful, as he hoped it would prove, must be of great benefit to our colonial possessions, as well as to England and Ireland. The present Bill would greatly serve Australia, as it would
 430
 Mr. Tennyson  admitted, that it was impossible to take out of the hands of the Government the power of prosecuting libels which excited men to a breach of the peace. He acknowledged that this libel advised resistance to the law; but then the House ought to consider the excitement which prevailed on the subject of these taxes, and that individuals in high station, and connected with office, had unthinkingly given similar advice on a former occasion. His impression respecting this libel was, that it recommended passive resistance to these taxes, in the hope that the people would thereby obtain what the editors of the  True Sun
 Mr. Maxwell  said, that if this proposition were pressed to a division, he should certainly feel it to be his duty to vote against the Motion of the hon. member
 419 True Sun
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that there were many parts of our code of law which were disgraceful to the country; but there was none so outrageously disgraceful, none so thoroughly disgusting, as our law of libel. According to that law, the distinct avowal of the most undeniable truth for an honest purpose was criminal. He had brought in a Bill at the early part of this Session to remedy many of the faults of that law; but the wet blanket of a committee had been thrown over that Bill; it had been suffocated by that proceeding; and whether it would ever be suffered to revive again was more than he could pretend to prophesy. The Attorney-General had treated with great contempt the doctrine, that anything which was calculated to offend the feelings of another was a libel; but by whom had that doctrine been held and maintained? By no less an authority than Lord Ellenborough, who had laid it down very distinctly in the case of "The King  v 420 True Sun. True Sun?"
 The Attorney General  said, that it was written before the resistance was made, and referred to dates, to prove his assertion.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he wished he had a jury to try that point with the hon. and learned Gentleman; but let that pass for the present, and let the House consider what that resistance was. Some old women rescued from a broker certain property that had been seized; and the next day the police were called in, and all the property was recovered. It was not that poor resistance which had terrified the Government into the repeal of part of the assessed taxes, any more than the remonstrances of the farmer had terrified it into giving that relief to the agricultural interest which was so much wanted. It had been said, that his Majesty's Government had censured Sir Thomas Denman in private, for the opinion which he had given in public in that House, on the justification which a libel received from the honesty of intention of the author. He could not bring himself to believe, that such had been the case: but even if it had, the censure must have been light, and must have soon blown over, as the Government had now placed him on the bench as the head of the common law. He did not think that, on the present occasion, either his hon. friend, the member for Cork, who was so zealous an advocate, or the right hon. Baronet, who was so good an officer, had shown much adroitness as tacticians. They had accused men of high station, of recommending similar resistance to that recommended by the  True Sun smouch 422
 Mr. Secretary Rice  felt himself called on to state, on the behalf of the Government, that in the sanction which Ministers had afforded to the introduction of the Bill, they had not given it any undue encouragement. Not only had the authors of the measure made out a strong  primâ facie l 431
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, that it was absurd to expect that the House should jump to a conclusion in an hour on a subject which had occupied the framers of the measure nine or ten months, before it was brought to any thing like maturity. Now, what did the preamble of the Bill contain? It declared it was intended to occupy waste and unoccupied lands. The hon. and gallant Colonel (Colonel Torrens) might laugh; but if report said true, instead of laughing, he ought to explain, for no one was more interested in the explanation. He repeated, waste and unoccupied land, which were supposed to be fit for colonization. Which were supposed! And was the House to desire the labouring population to expatriate themselves on such grounds as these? That House ought to be a conservative body, and not to sanction any such plan, without being fully convinced of its succeeding. On these grounds, although he was not disposed to move, that the Bill be read a second time this day six months, yet, in order to give time for the due consideration of the Bill, he should move that it be read a second time this day week.
 Colonel Torrens  declared himself at a loss to understand how the hon. member for Oxford could object to the colonization of unoccupied lands. Would he have occupied lands colonized?
 Mr. Wolryche Whitmore  was surprised at the hon. and learned Member's using the word "transportation." [Mr.  Sheil:
 Colonel Davies  said, in the present state of the public mind on the question of military flogging, it required some degree of boldness for any Member of that House honestly to state the opinion he entertained, if it were not in strict accordance with popular feeling. He had, however, never been deterred from performing what he conceived to be his duty by any considerations of that kind, and he would fearlessly say, that it would be impossible to preserve the discipline of the British army without corporal punishment. Many Members opposed the practice altogether who were totally ignorant of the subject. It could not be supposed that lawyers had so much knowledge on this as men of military experience, any more than that he understood a question of law as well as some hon. and learned Members who had addressed the House; and he did not hesitate to say, that, with the exception of two or three military men who sat on that side of the House (the Opposition), it would be admitted by every other hon. and gallant Member, that corporal punishment was absolutely necessary to maintain the discipline and subordination of the army. He believed that corporal punishment was never dreamt of by a soldier when he enlisted in the army, and that was the reason so many bad men entered into it. What, he asked, would have been the consequence, if such an offence as this man had been guilty of had been committed in
 373
 Lord John Russell  said, he had not been at all prepared for the part which the hon. and learned Member had taken on the present occasion. He must say, that he could not perceive that there existed any grounds to demand the appoint-
 380
 Lord John Russell  begged briefly to explain the grounds upon which he had felt called upon to oppose the Motion of the hon. and learned member for Dublin. He was quite prepared to admit, that if the only accounts before the House relative to this matter were the evidence before the Committee on the Inns of Court the case would be in a very different position to what it now assumed. The ground upon which he opposed the Motion of the hon. and learned member for Dublin for a Committee of Inquiry was, that the statement which had been made by the right hon. Secretary at War in explanation of his conduct in this transaction had been corroborated by letters actually written between the parties at the time of the occurrence. These documents were amply sufficient to satisfy the House upon the merits of the case.
 Major Beauclerk  was not prepared to say whether all the facts contained in the petition were true or not, but he thought it was of great importance for the House to consider the result that was to be drawn from it—namely, that a commanding officer, by the rules of the army, did not possess the power, under any circumstances, in the presence of the surgeon, to remit any portion of the sentence passed by a court-martial. It was a principle which he thought should not be suffered to continue any longer. There could be no question but a surgeon should be always on the spot, and he could not suppose there was a surgeon in the British army who would suffer a single lash to be inflicted above what the offender was able to bear; but, nevertheless, he did not agree that the power to mitigate
 371
 Major Fancourt  confessed he did not think any blame attached to Colonel Bowater, or any of the officers in the regiment to which this man belonged. His opinion was, the blame rested entirely with that House, who had come to a decision, by a majority of 227 to 94, to give the Horse Guards the power to inflict the punishment. He would, on an early day in the next Session, renew the motion he had brought under the notice of the House during the present Session without success, for the entire abolition of flogging in the army.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  hoped the practice would soon be done away with. The practice was now reduced to a complete science, the first thing a drummer, bugler, or smith, was taught, being to practise flogging. He believed no imputation rested on the commanding officer in this instance.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  thought the Motion entirely unnecessary.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  thought, that the silence of the gallant Officer who had sat down was much to be deplored. He did wish that the gallant Officer had found it convenient to record his opinions on the Law of Libel, if it was only for the sake of reference in future debates. Certainly the vote of the gallant Officer, if considered abstractedly, was in favour of free discussion and the liberty of the Press; but if the vote were taken in relation with the speech, he should regard the proceeding altogether as one directed against free discussion. In a word, the right hon. and gallant Officer voted for the pardon of Mr. Bell and Mr. Grant, because Lord Milton and Mr. Brougham had not been prosecuted; but if the four individuals had been prosecuted and convicted, the hon. and gallant Officer would then maintain the propriety of their imprisonment. For himself, he was
 417
 Mr. Charles Buller  said, he would meet the suggestion of the hon. and gallant Member by proposing an Amendment to the Motion before the House. He could not help observing, that the present Motion came with a particularly bad grace from the hon. and learned Member, who, with other hon. Members in that House, were so much beholden for their political position to the right hon. Member the Secretary at War and his colleagues in office. The people of England would always feel grateful to that right hon. Gentleman for his exertions in their cause. And he sincerely hoped that the House would not allow a shadow to be cast over the reputation of individuals to whom the
 383
 Mr. Charles Grant  said, it was not in his power to answer the question which had been put to him with regard to what was the general intention of the Ministry on this subject. He was unprepared to say exactly when the Commission would be issued, but he would say, that whatever his right hon. friend (Mr. Ellice) had pledged himself to do, he would carry into effect to the utmost of his power, as speedily and impartially as possible; and as his right hon. friend had fully stated his sentiments on this subject to the House, it could not be expected that he (Mr. Grant) should offer any further explanation of the views and intentions of the Government. He could not, however, refrain from expressing the repugnance he felt at such a punishment, and his deepest regret that it should be suffered to continue. But he must nevertheless observe, that he had long felt the extreme difficulty which arose from appealing to that House upon every instance that occurred of the exercise of the practice. He believed no man in that House entertained a greater abhorrence of the practice than himself, and the only question that presented itself to him was, whether it could at once be abolished without a serious injury to the discipline of the army. The Commission would lead to the fullest investigation, and it would then be seen whether the continuance of the system was necessary to maintain the discipline of the army. He entertained the highest opinion of the character of Colonel Bowater, and considered him in no way connected with the transaction. He must however, admit, that no one could read the account of the case upon which the petition was founded without shuddering.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  rose to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, for an Address to his Majesty, praying that he would be graciously pleased
 401 True Sun Standard Albion Guardian and Public Ledger, Blackwood's Magazine Examiner John Bull Morning Post, The Times Manchester Advertiser Dublin Freeman's Journal, Cobbett's Register, &c., &c. True Sun The Times True Sun. True Sun 402 The Times True Sun True Sun 403
 Mr. F. O'Connor  should oppose the Bill on the hon. Member's own showing, for there was a want of able-bodied labourers in Ireland and in other parts of the empire.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  said, that he was not in the habit of forestalling confidence, especially when that confidence was to be placed in Ministers. If the noble Lord would give him any promise— [ "No, no," "Withdraw the Motion." True Sun True Sun
 Mr. Grote  said, that there was every wish on the part of the supporters of the measure to afford time not only to discuss the principle, but every point of detail in the Committee.
 Mr. Sinclair  said, he was so perfectly satisfied with the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary at War, that he should vote against the Motion for further inquiry.
 Mr. Sinclair  remarked, that whatever might have been the influence of military flogging on the discipline of the army, there could be no doubt that it had produced a very powerful and general disgust in the public mind. It would be a much better plan to discharge incorrigible men from the service at once, than to resort to a system of torture and disgrace, which had evidently failed to produce the effect intended.
 Mr. George F. Young  felt it his duty to support the Motion. He should do so, not from at all doubting the statement of the Secretary at War, in whose integrity he had the most perfect confidence, but because he thought the people had a right to be convinced as well as that House, and that inquiry would lead to a conclusion triumphant to the character of the right hon. Gentleman. The right hon. Secretary of the Colonies (Mr. Rice) had said, there was no precedent for calling for an inquiry when a Member had pledged his word and honour to a statement; but he was prepared to show that that was a mistake. The hon. and learned Gentleman (the member for Tipperary) had
 396
 Mr. G. F. Young  expressed a hope, that if the opponents of the measure withdrew any further opposition to the second reading, time would be allowed for the discussion of the principle in the Committee.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, he had always been opposed to the principle of flogging. He thought a more horrible and inhuman instance of the exercise of this practice had never occurred than that, which had recently taken place in St. George's Barracks, in the very heart of the metropolis. If the accounts which he had seen were true, before the offender had received twenty lashes he cried out most loudly for mercy, and his cries were of the most heart-rending description. It was said, the young man was a very old offender. So he might have been; but that very circumstance would have suggested the question, whether it would not have been advisable to take different steps. His opinion upon the principle was very well known; it had been recorded in the glorious minority upon the Motion of one of the present candidates for Nottingham, deprecating the barbarous practice. He sincerely hoped the electors of Nottingham would put this question to his right hon. friend, and he hoped his answer would be such as would secure to him his election and the confidence of the people on this important question. He perfectly concurred with the right hon. Secretary, that the march of public opinion had progressed to such a point, that something must be speedily done to satisfy the general wishes that were entertained on the subject. He was present on an occasion in Holland, where a British soldier was flogged in the
 368
 Sir Henry Hardinge  did not rise to take any part in the dispute between the hon. and learned Gentleman and the hon. member for Middlesex. Leaving that, he would beg to offer a few words on the question now before the House. He did not think that the defendants in the case of the  True Sun 414 True Sun True Sun True Sun 415 bona fide
 Sir Henry Hardinge : I took down the words of the hon. and learned Gentleman, and I understood him to say, "I never will file an  ex-officio
 Mr. Wilks  said, it was nevertheless very obvious that flogging had not produced the intended effect. He trusted the day was not far distant when it would be entirely done away with. He was glad to hear that a commission was about to be appointed, and that the right hon. Secretary was so far willing to meet the general wishes of the people.
 Mr. Wilks  observed, that the statement of the hon. Baronet opposite, that this man had been punished forty times, proved that the practice of flogging did not answer the end intended.
 Mr. Hume  said, that it was precisely because he believed the statement which had been made by the right hon. Gentleman, that he thought a Committee ought to be appointed. There was in his judgment no other way of meeting the case so as to do justice to the character of that House. The information upon which his hon. and learned friend grounded his Motion was of such a nature as absolutely to require the appointment of a Committee. It was given by a noble Lord, a Member of the other House of Parliament, who, in his examination, had said, that money had been sent to Colchester from the Treasury—which he thought was sent to support Mr. Mayhew—and that he was returned. Now, after this statement of the noble Lord—that money was sent "from the Treasury" to defray the election expenses of a particular Candidate, who was eventually returned—could the House, in justice to its own character—could it, in justice to the character of the right hon. Secretary, refuse the appointment of a Committee? That right hon. Gentleman he knew was much interested in the elections of the period—and here was a charge that money came from the Treasury—not from private subscriptions—and how then could the House get rid of that charge except by appointing a Committee? He was well aware that his right hon. friend would be able fully and most completely to exculpate himself, and what objection could there then be to the appointment of a Committee? He recollected that on a former occasion the right hon. member for Ipswich stood up and challenged any individual in the House who had ever filled the office of Secretary to the Treasury to show that he had ever been concerned in transactions like the present on the part of Government. He certainly did not believe that such proceedings were attributable to Government. There was only one source from which money could be supplied for such purposes
 382
 Mr. Hume  said, that if the hon. and learned Gentleman would produce the letter which he (Mr. Hume) had written to Mr. Cooke, in answer to one from that Gentleman, it would not bear out the construction which the hon. and learned Gentleman had put upon it. If the hon. and learned Gentleman did not produce it, he (Mr. Hume) would.
 Mr. Hume  begged leave to explain. The hon. and learned Gentleman had alluded to the letter which he wrote to Edinburgh on the subject of the late election there. The hon. and learned Gentleman ought, in candour, to have mentioned also the letter which he (Mr. Hume) wrote in his behalf to the electors of Dudley, when he contested that borough some time since. The allusion of the hon. and learned Gentleman to a letter addressed to a private party, and not intended for publication, was not quite fair. The Edinburgh letter was written in reply to a gentleman of that city, who applied to him upon the subject of the late election; and as the matter had been mentioned, he had no hesitation in saying, that he expressed an opinion, that the hon. and learned Gentleman, from his situation in connexion with the Government, was not the independent man whom he thought it would be desirable for the electors of Edinburgh to choose as their Representative.
 Mr. Hume  seconded the Amendment, and said, that he was at a loss to understand how it was, that in the prosecution of the  True Sun True Sun True Sun
 Mr. Mildmay  defended the conduct of Colonel Bowater, who, he said, was unable to interfere with the sentence of a district Court-martial, but was bound to see it carried into full effect.
 Mr. Sheil  said, that he very seldom differed from his hon. friend (Mr. O'Connor), but it really appeared to him very much like a paradox when he heard him objecting to any means of getting rid of a superabundant population. In his own parish there were upwards of 200 persons every week who said, "Give us food, or give us work," while it was not always possible to give them food, and impossible to give them work. As the plan had received the disinterested sanction of his Majesty's Government, he thought it deserved consideration as a question of philanthropy and of national usefulness.
 Mr. Sheil  wished to put a question respecting the mode in which the children of those who were to be deportated to Australia were to be provided for. He wanted to know whether they were to be sent out with their parents; and he put this question, that it might not go abroad, that so monstrous a proposition as leaving them to shift for themselves in this country had ever been entertained by the promoters of the Bill.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, he believed that was the first time in which a Committee had been required in a case in which both parties admitted that they heard the truth. Before any Committee could be necessary, it would be right to show that the money was given for illegal purposes.
 Mr. Estcourt  would intrude on the House only for a very few minutes. He very rarely troubled the House, and never, he trusted, abused its indulgence. He was not one of those who had had the advantage of fully hearing the explanation of the Secretary at War. It was said, that explanation had been perfectly satisfactory; but when it was made, the charge was not formally before the House. It was true the Report had been brought up, and he believed the hon. and learned Gentleman who had presented it had expressed his intention to move that it should be printed; but, before that was done, the right hon. Gentleman had thought proper to make his explanations. Now, by that proceeding those who happened not to be in the House were surely not to be precluded from inquiry? [ Cries of "Divide." 397
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  regretted, that the right hon. Secretary at War was not in his place, but seeing one of his Majesty's Ministers present, he was desirous to know whether it was intended that every member of the proposed Commission should be a military officer of experience. He could assure the Government, if the Commission were composed entirely of military men, it would be very far from satisfactory to the country. He conceived the simple question before the House to be, whether what had taken place was in strict accordance with the circular issued from the Horse Guards last year. By that order, the public were led to believe the practice of flogging, if not entirely abolished, would be so mitigated as to render it quite unobjectionable, If the present instance was in strict accordance with that circular, it only showed that the order was a perfect farce, and the House was misled, and lulled into a sort of foolish confidence in the Government, when the right hon. Secretary at War called on them not to pass an opinion on the system itself. He trusted, however, it would be a lesson to the House not to place reliance on ambiguous pledges and circulars, but at once to come to a resolution to put an end to the practice. The House had been deluded in a similar manner on the subject
 375
 Sir Edward Codrington  said, whenever an instance of the infliction of military punishment was brought forward, it was very commonly supposed, that officers took a delight in witnessing it. Now, he would venture to say, there was no officer in the British army who did not perform this disagreeable duty with feelings both of pain and disgust. For his own part, he considered this the most revolting and unpleasant part of his duty. Painful, however, as that duty was, he never flinched from the discharge of it, not simply because it was his duty to the service, but because it was his duty to every officer in the ship. Hon. Members had recommended, that persons acting improperly should be expelled from the army, and an objection was taken that a man had only to commit some offence to procure his discharge; but it was forgotten that a discharge could not be obtained for a less sum than 20 l
 Mr. Henry Bulwer  said, that he believed this to be a wheel put into motion in order to crush the most insignificant
 390
 Sir Henry Willoughby  was anxious to state briefly his reasons for supporting the Amendment of his hon. friend, the member for Oxford. At the hour in the morning at which the House had arrived, it was impossible that a proper degree of discussion could be given to a scheme of colonization which differed from all former schemes. He understood the principle of this method to be, that large capitalists should purchase land, and that those emigrating as labourers were not to hold land. [ "No, no." 432
 Lord Althorp  considered the present Motion more as one of censure than of inquiry; because the hon. Gentleman had declared, that the facts, as they were admitted to stand, called for the reprehension of the House. He had the honour of having been a Member of that House when the case of Mr. Freemantle, alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Wynn), was discussed in 1807; and speaking from his recollection of what had passed on that occasion, he must say, it had been admitted by all, that the Secretary of the Treasury had as much right to interfere, as a private individual, with an election, as any other person in the country. The right hon. Gentleman placed the case not at all on the ground on which it had been originally discussed; in fact, he seemed to treat it as if the question had depended on the circumstance whether the letter had been dated from the Treasury-chambers, or from Mr. Freemantle's own private residence. But the question was altogether different. Mr. Assheton Smith, who had introduced the subject upon a petition, to the notice of the House, stated the charge in these
 394 395
 Lord Althorp , referring to the observation of the Attorney-General, that he had not undertaken the prosecution of this paper without the concurrence of the Administration, admitted the correctness of that statement in the fullest sense. He could not say, that it was in consequence of this libel that resistance to the law took place, but, certainly, resistance did take place upon the very grounds stated in this paper. Though he was not anxious to prosecute the Press, and though he was anxious for the most free expression of public opinion on the conduct of public men, yet he could not see how the Government could have been justified in forbearing to prosecute papers which excited to a positive breach of the law. This paper had excited the people to a breach of the law, and it therefore became the duty of the Government to interfere.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, there was no person in that House more desirous to abolish sinecures than himself, but instead of this being a Bill to do away with sinecures, its object was, to diminish the salaries of the effective officers of the House. He would ask the right hon. Gentleman in the chair whether his office was any sinecure, and yet the Bill proposed to reduce the salary from 6,000 l l
 Mr. Guest  said, the Bill had been founded on the report of two different Committees, and must not be considered as his individual proposition. He hoped, if the House would permit the Bill to go into Committee, to prove that the salaries of the different officers mentioned in the Bill ought to be reduced. The Bill did not seek to affect the salaries of the present possessors of those offices which were proposed to be reduced, and he thought, when
 459 l l
 Mr. Wynn  did not think any ground had been shown to suffer this Bill to proceed a single step. He should therefore give his decided opposition to its going into Committee. With regard to the salary now given to the Speaker, the House would observe, that it was fixed at 6,000 l l l
 Mr. Hughes  also was of opinion, that if this clause were carried, the Societies would become the victims of designing characters. The principle of the clause had been protested against by the Societies. The House had formerly considered the proposition now made, and had negatived it; he, therefore, hoped that this clause would not be pressed now; and if it were pressed, he was quite sure, that it could not be carried.
 Mr. Wilks  would resist the proposition. These institutions were in a different situation from that of private individuals; they might do as they pleased with their own; but the like liberty ought not to be extended to the institutions belonging to the invalid sick, the poor, widows, and orphans.
 Mr. Bernal  wished to propose a clause to empower the Friendly Societies to invest their funds in any manner they pleased, with the consent of three-fourths of the members. These Societies were of great national importance; and, therefore, the House ought to be cautious that they did not so legislate as to excite the suspicion of the Societies. If the Bill were left in its present shape, without the Amendment which he proposed, he feared there would be this tendency.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  said, he would be no party to continuing the delusions circulated by this Bill, as to the security of the Funds. An intelligent Member, in 1819, brought in a celebrated Bill, using the language now adopted, respecting jobbers, speculators, &c.; and yet that
 458
 Mr. Ord  admitted, that the Friendly Societies were generally desirous of some such clause as that now proposed; but he feared, that the power would be any thing but useful to the Societies; that it would often expose them to bankruptcy and ruin. He regretted, that the Bill had been much, and, he feared, designedly misrepresented by interested parties. It did not seek to interfere with the investments of any Societies now existing; only those which sought enrolment under it. If the clause now proposed were adopted, the effect would be, that Societies, except
 457
 Sir Samuel Whalley  also feared, that the tendency of this clause would be most mischievous. It would lead these Societies to embark in gambling and speculative transactions, to prevent which had heretofore been the object of legislation. If that were allowed, and if one failure resulted from these speculations, let them remember how extensive would be the panic through all the Societies. In such case, the mischief would be irretrievable.
 Mr. Baring  rose to present two Petitions, one from fishermen of Essex, and the other from fishermen of Jersey, &c., engaged in the channel fisheries, complaining of annoyances which they experienced from the French authorities while fishing off the French coast. The subject was of immediate importance to the petitioners, inasmuch as it concerned the means of obtaining their subsistence by the exercise of what they considered the right of British subjects; but it was not of importance to them only, it was of the greatest consequence to the country. He was glad that the noble Lord (Lord Palmerston) had attended to hear the petitions stated; he, therefore, doubted not that the noble Lord would give the subject that serious consideration which it deserved. The first petition was from some fishermen of Berkhampstead, in Essex, the other was from a large body of persons in the Isle of Jersey, interested in the same industrious trade. Their statement was, that from time immemorial they were in the habit, up to the year 1821, of dredging for oysters in the seas between Jersey and France, and it was well known that those coasts furnished the oysters which supplied the beds at the mouth of the Thames; and besides, these fisheries furnished this country with a great number of excellent seamen. The question, therefore, was of the greatest importance to this country. The statement was, that from the year 1821, the French began to molest the fishermen of this country, and disputes arose as to how near they might approach the French coast? He would refer upon this subject to the opinion of the hon. and learned member for the Tower Hamlets (Dr. Lushington), than whom no better authority could well be adduced. The statement of the hon. and learned Doctor was, that the question must be determined in the first instance on the principle of the law of nations. The law of nations prescribed that every country had the right to prevent the inhabitants of any other state fishing within gunshot of their coast, which was estimated to be a maritime league from low-water mark. The learned Gentleman went on to say, that although the question must be settled primarily by the law of nations, the particular right of a country might be affected by long custom and usage, and that the rights granted by the law of nations might
 477 478
 Mr. Baring  begged to remind the noble Lord, that the fishing commenced in September.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that he would avail himself of the present opportunity to bring under the consideration of the House a question to which he had often adverted in the course of the present Session. The House would recollect that at an early period of the present Session, he had called for a return of the number of offices created under Acts of Parliament which had been passed, and under various commissions which had been issued, during the last Session. The delays which had occurred in making up that return, prevented him from laving before the House a complete picture of what had taken place, but he would endeavour to give the House an outline of the extent to which the creation of offices had been carried. It was necessary, by Act of Parliament, that Government should make to Parliament, every year, a statement of the increase or diminution of the amount of salaries in the several public offices, and that statement included, of course, the number of offices that had been increased or diminished in the same time. If the House should be governed by the paper which had been that year laid upon the Table, and if they should suppose it to present a real statement of the increase or diminution of offices, they would be much and grossly deceived. For it would appear from that paper, that in the year 1833 there had been an increase of 128 new offices, and a diminution of 221 old ones, leaving a balance of ninety-three in favour of the diminution of offices. But the facts of the case were very different. He would confine himself at present to the year 1833, because that was a year of which the returns were partially before the House, and to which it was only necessary that he should refer at present. It appeared that during the year 1833, nine commissions had issued, and ten acts had been passed, under which various appointments had been made. There were also other appointments, of which no returns had been made, because the time for making them had not yet arrived. Of those appointment he should take no notice, but should found his argument entirely upon the documents now on the Table. The official paper, containing a return of the increase and diminution of offices, presented, as he had already told the House, a diminution of 221 old offices, and an increase of 128 new ones. But when he looked at certain returns, which
 484 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 485 l. l. 486 l. 487 l. l. 488
 Mr. Littleton  did not rise to reply to the general observations of the right hon. Gentleman, but merely to account for the appointment of the number of clerks and assisting barristers, who had been employed in distributing the Tithe Relief Fund granted last Session. He would undertake to show the House, that the work which had been accomplished by them, could not have been accomplished in so short a time, had not such a number been employed. He scarcely needed to repeat that one million was granted last Session for the relief of the tithe-owners. The result of that grant had been, that not less than 2,490 schedules or memorials had been presented for relief. Few of those schedules contained less than 200 names; many of them contained from 2,000 to 3,000 names. The provision of that grant was, that 15 per cent should be deducted from the claims of 1833, and 25 and 30 per cent from the claims of 1831 and 1830. These memorials were sent to the different assistant-barristers in the different counties to be adjudicated upon. It was impossible for the assistant-barristers to adjudicate upon them, as their avocations on the Sessions and their other professional duties interfered, without assistance. As they must have been paid five guineas a-day for their labour, it did not create any additional expense to appoint other barristers to assist in performing this service. Assisting barristers were, therefore, appointed; and as it was necessary to distribute this fund without delay, to prevent several of the clergy from starving, a great number was appointed. That was at once a wise and humane policy. With regard to the clerks employed, it was quite necessary that they should be so numerous, in order to calculate the reductions within a given time. Sir William Gossett, who was conversant with matters of account, had calculated that it would take one man
 489
 Mr. Henry Grattan,  asked the right hon. Gentleman whether he had not supported the Bill of last Session for distributing a million among the distressed clergymen of the Church of Ireland? The clergy asked for justice; and now, when the million was distributed, was it justice to advocate a node of proceeding which, had it been adopted, would have prevented the distribution of the grant? The assistant barristers were employed at the Sessions; and it was, therefore, necessary to appoint other barristers to perform this public service. There were thirty-two counties in Ireland, and some of them were divided into districts. Now, to these thirty-two counties, with their subdivisions, not more than forty barristers had been appointed.
 Mr. Francis Baring  thought, that the right hon. Gentleman had not dealt quite fairly by Ministers on this occasion, by complaining that certain offices had not been included in the returns which were upon the Table, although he knew, or ought to have known, that it was the practice never to include them in such returns. The right hon. Gentleman, without saying so in express terms, had left it to be inferred that it was an extremely convenient mode of exercising patronage for Government to make appointments to situations which were not brought under the consideration of Parliament. The right hon. Gentleman knew that the returns upon the Table had been drawn up in conformity with the practice which had existed for upwards of twenty years; and, therefore, in the imputations which he had conveyed on that account he had exhibited a spirit of political charity different from that which he had expected from the
 490 491 l. 492 l. l. l., l. l., l. l., l.;
 Mr. Hume  expressed his surprise, that Ministers should be at all angry with the right hon. Gentleman for bringing this subject forward. For his part, he approved of the course which the right hon. Gentleman had pursued, and entertained hopes that after he had been two or three
 493 l.
 Sir Robert Peel  thought, that his right hon. friend was perfectly justified in calling public attention to this subject. No person who saw from the papers upon the Table that seventy-four clerks, and thirty-two assistant barristers had been appointed for the purpose of superintending the distribution of a million of money could have avoided feeling that it was a fit subject for inquiry. Here were seventy-four clerks with salaries of 100 l. l. 494 495
 Mr. Secretary Rice  thought, that Government had no right to complain of the result of the present discussion, whatever might be thought of the tone of the speech in which it had originated. The inference which was to be drawn from the observations of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Goulburn) was, that the conduct of Government was characterized by disingenuousness and mystification; but the clear and satisfactory statement of his hon. friend (Mr. F. Baring) had set the House right upon that point. With respect to the appointment of Commissions, the House should recollect that the practice had been pursued by former Administrations. It appeared from a return laid upon the Table in 1827, that from 1307 to 1829, no less a sum than 956,885 l. l.
 Mr. Sheil  said, as Mr. Macaulay's salary was fixed by Act of Parliament, it might be reduced by the same authority. He believed, that the Irish Corporation Commission had been very properly appointed, but although that Commission had completed its labours, no report whatever had yet been produced. As to the Irish Church Commission, if an efficient Tithe Bill had
 496
 Mr. Littleton  said, the subject was under the consideration of Government, and he had every reason to think, that the number of Commissioners would be increased.
 Mr. Grote  expressed his approbation of the course which Government had pursued in the appointment of various Commissions. Economy no doubt should be attended to; but there was no portion of the expenditure of the country to which he felt so little objection as that employed in obtaining the most useful and valuable information communicated to the public by means of these Commissions of Inquiry. The hon. Member particularly alluded to the various law Commissions, but more especially to the Poor-law Commission, which contained so much important and excellent information. He did not coincide with the right hon. Secretary with regard to the salary given to Mr. Macaulay, which, with all his admiration for that excellent and most gifted individual, he could not but consider extravagant.
 Mr. Cobbett  altogether disagreed with the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down as to the propriety of appointing so many Commissions. If it were necessary before Parliament legislated on any subject, to have a Commission appointed, deliberation would very soon be altogether superseded. The Ministers selected the Commissioners who thought with them on the particular subject in question, and in making their report very good care was taken, that it should not be disagreeable to their employers. It was impossible to deny that great disadvantage was felt in reference to the Poor-laws in consequence of the manner in which the Reports had been got up and submitted to Parliament. It had been said, that the Report contained the deliberate, well-studied, and clear made-up opinions of
 497 l.,
 Mr. Shaw  said, he had opposed from
 498 l.,
 The Attorney General  stated, in answer to an observation made by the hon. member for Oldham, that Lord Kenyon had never laid down the law as had been stated; he merely refused to interfere by way of criminal information, leaving the parties open to adopt any other mode of proceeding, civil or criminal.
 Mr. Baring  would not trouble the House with many observations, for there was not much of novelty in the statements of the noble Lord. As to the reductions of duty which the noble Lord had announced his intention of proposing, the only one which was of much importance was the reduction of the duty on spirits in Ireland. With respect to the general principles on which the financial system of the country was at present carried on, which was the most important part of the business, it was well known, that he materially differed from the noble Lord. He would not, however, repeat the opinions which he had expressed on that subject, knowing that they were unpopular in that House; but would merely observe, that it was mighty easy for a Finance Minister, year after year, to propose a reduction of taxation, and to talk of the buoyancy and elasticity of our finance system, and then to leave the country to all the chances of distress which might arise from some sudden and unexpected fluctuation. When the noble Lord said, that his predecessors in office left a large surplus or a larger margin, as it was termed, than he, all that the noble Lord did was to show that he was prepared to purchase popularity at a risk which other Finance Ministers, who, as public men, were more conscientious and scrupulous than the noble Lord, would not venture to incur. The noble Lord said, that he had a surplus of about 400,000 l. l. l. l. 514 l. l., l. 515 516 l. s. s. l. l. 517 l. l. l. l. 518 l. l. l. l. 519 l. l., l.; l. l. l. 520 l.
 Mr. Baring  said, that from the noble Lord's own statement, it appeared that these Commissioners had sold stock to the extent of 2,500,000 l., d. l., d.
 Mr. Baring  had stated, that oil was the only article, the reduction of the duty on which he approved of.
 Mr. Baring  begged to say, that he had stated on the former evening, what he had stated to-night, and which the right hon. Gentleman was pleased to call wit—namely, that the reduction of the duty, as far as regarded oil, employed in manufactures, was beneficial, although he certainly did not wish to see, if the distinction could be made, any reduction of the duty on oil used as an article of luxury.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he had one word to say for Ireland. He heard of prunes, currants, salad-oil, stockjobbing, foreign newspapers—in a word, of relief to be given in every way, and to every article, but he heard little of Ireland. By the Grand Jury Bill it was recommended to take off the duties on stamps, but by the decision of the Judges the parties, in order to make the stamp binding, should pay l l.; s. d., s. l. 540 l.
 Mr. Secretary Rice  said, as far as the country parts of Ireland were concerned, the project of the Chancellor of the Exchequer would prevent illicit distillation, and so far no one could deny that it would be a benefit for Ireland. But the hon. member for Dublin said, that it would increase the consumption in the towns, where it was most desirable that the consumption should be diminished. Now to prevent illicit distillation in the country was going far to prevent the large consumption of whisky in the towns. Illicit distillation in the towns would have the same bad effect as the small stills in the country—so that in proportion as illicit distillation were checked so would most of the evils of drunkenness and its consequences be prevented. It was notorious that illicit distillation grew up under the pressure of high duties. Nothing was attended with more demoralizing and disorganizing consequence than illicit distillation. It arrayed the police and the peasantry, the functionaries of Government and the people, against each other. Even the Magistrates, though they might be called on to crush the system, too often encouraged it, because it enabled the poor tenants to pay a portion of their rents. The great expense of collecting the duty was another great evil. As to the duty on glass in Ireland, the reduction of that duty, if
 541
 Mr. Mark Philips  hoped, that when the noble Lord should have a surplus on a future opportunity, he would remit the duty on raw cotton.
 Captain William Gordon  thought, that Scotland had some reason to complain of the course taken by the noble Lord, who proposed to take l s.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  was glad to have received the approbation of his hon. friend upon any point; but the amount of oil consumed as a luxury was, he could assure him, a mere trifle, compared to that employed in manufactures. With the exception, however, of this article, there was not one of those which had been selected for a reduction of duty which, upon going through the Customs-book, he should not have placed last upon the list to be so selected, and that, in point of fact, it was a waste of the public money to reduce the duty upon such articles. The articles, however, which had particularly excited the wrath of his hon. friend were those which came under the head of dried fruits, and especially currants. The hon. member for Essex treated these as articles of luxury, meaning, he presumed, that they were articles for the consumption of the rich, and not of the poor. Now, as regarded currants, he could assure his hon. friend, that he was completely mistaken in so describing them. It was notorious, that all but the very poorest class were in
 527 s. d., s., s. s. d., s. s., 528 l. 529 l. l. l.; 530 l. l.; l.; l. l. l., l. l. l. l. 531
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that he must in common with others who had heard his hon. friend, have misunderstood him, and if so, what became of all his hon. friend's wit about salad oil. The fact, he supposed was, that his hon. friend had found out, since he spoke, that oil was greatly used in the manufactures of this country.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  trusted the Committee would allow him to make a few observations upon the remarks made by the hon. member for Essex on the Bill he had the honour to bring before the House a short time back. He had been peculiarly unfortunate as regarded his hon. friend;
 526
 Mr. Shaw  also objected to the reduction of the Irish spirit duty, which would be
 543
 Mr. Goulburn  had been long convinced that the resources of the country, if managed with ordinary prudence, would be more than sufficient to meet the demands which could be made on them; and the state of prosperity in the country, unattended by any very extraordinary revulsion, would more than realize the expectations which had been entertained concerning it. Notwithstanding he agreed with the noble Lord in his anticipations of the elasticity of the resources of the country,
 523 l. l., l.; l. l. l. l., l. 524 s. d. Althorp: 525
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that the well-wishers of Ireland would not approve of the reduction that had been made in the duty on Irish whisky.
 Mr. Herries  said, that there was obviously a mistake between the parties on this subject. The noble Lord had first made a profit, but in this second operation he had lost part of the profit which he had made; for he could not see how, by selling stock at 95 or 96 to reinvest at 100, any profit could accrue to the parties who engaged in such a transaction.
 Mr. Hume  doubted the propriety of the
 538 l. l. 539 l. l. l.
 Mr. Pease  was ready to congratulate the House on the removing of the House-duty; but what he especially rose for was to express his satisfaction at the Budget that had been now introduced. He saw that such reductions had been made as might be expected from a liberal Ministry. The taking off the duty on coals would be a great advantage to trade; but he would say, as far as regarded manufactures, that that, duty came two or three years too late. He did not approve of the protection given to English ships that carried coals to foreign countries, for he did not see the use of a heavier duty on coals exported in foreign bottoms.
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  considered, that the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) would have better consulted the interests of the mercantile world by taking off the Stamp-duties on bills of exchange than by any other reduction he had made.
 Mr. Robert Wallace  said, that, at that late hour of the night, his observations should be very brief, and confined entirely to what related more particularly to Scotland. He had hoped the time had arrived when a more liberal line of policy would have given place to the existing distinction of duties between the different parts of the empire, but to his surprise and regret he found it to he the intention of the Government still further to widen this distinction, by charging different duties on British spirits made in Ireland and Scotland as well as in England. He would enter his protest against a higher duty being paid in Scotland than in Ireland. It was impossible, with justice to the Scotch agricultural interest, and the immense capital invested in distilleries, to tax the produce of her poorer soil and worse climate, at a higher rate than what is grown in the fertile soil of Ireland. Independent of this, smuggling to an immense extent must be the immediate result. He was intimately acquainted with the facilities existing for this purpose; the shores of the two countries were supplied with innumerable small craft, having harbours and creeks at every turn, which would render it impossible to prevent smuggling the cheaper spirits of Ireland directly into Scotland. He further objected to the raising the price of spirits by an additional charge on licenses only; if additional revenue must be raised upon the sale of spirits, it would be nothing more than just that a portion of it should be paid by the producer of the spirits, as well as by the seller. He would reserve his further remarks until a future time.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  concurred in what had fallen from the right hon. member for Tamworth with respect to Joint-Stock banks, which were merely propping and
 544 d.
 Mr. Ewart  objected to the continuance of the tobacco duty in its present shape, and declared it to be a most unequal and grievous impost.
 Mr. James  was glad that the House-tax had been taken off. He was glad when any tax was taken off, but he should be more heartily pleased if he saw the tax upon malt removed. With respect to what had fallen from the right hon. member for Tamworth, he wished to say, that Joint-Stock Banks, the members of which were responsible to the extent of their shares, were far more safe than any private banks could be.
 Mr. O'Reilly  thought it would have been better, if, instead of the duty on spirits being reduced l s.
 Sir E. Codrington  said, that as both parties believed themselves to be in the right, and ready to fight for what they deemed their right, it was most important that the question should be settled.
 Sir J. Tyrell  supported the petitions, and concurred in the sentiments that had fallen from the hon. Member who had presented them. He agreed in the importance of the question, and trusted, that the noble Lord would lose no time in attending to the subject, and that, by the next Session, the noble Lord might be able to give some satisfactory statement. respecting it.
 Sir Robert Peel  observed, if he were asked, what was most likely to produce ill-will between the two countries, he should reply, that nothing was so calculated to create such a fatal result as these constant squabbles about the rights of fishing; and as that was the case, and as nothing could be more unsatisfactory than the present state of the question, he thought it was of paramount importance that the Government should attend to it. The present was a mere provisional arrangement, and yet it had continued since 1821; it was unsatisfactory because such an arrangement could not be viewed as law. He thought a negotiation should take place with a view to a proper treaty between the two nations, to be confirmed by an Act of Parliament. Nothing, in his opinion, could be more serious than the question that might hereafter arise on an attempt to enforce the limits which had been mutually agreed upon by the commanding officers of the French and English cruisers, being admitted by both countries to be merely provisional arrangements, and not having the force of law. So far as our own fishermen were concerned, he had no doubt they had frequently transgressed the boundary, and as the law at present stood, he very much questioned whether, if a French officer were to kill an English fisherman, difficulties of a most serious nature would not arise. The noble Lord said, he was informed, that in each case our fishermen were in the wrong, and he had no doubt they were; but if an English fisherman went within the line, declaring the law to be in his favour, and refusing to recognize the arrangement that had been entered into between the two countries, he apprehended all that could be done by the Eng-
 482
 Sir Robert Peel  agreed with the right hon. Gentleman, that it would have been infinitely better, upon every ground of policy, to have repealed the duty on glass, rather than to have removed the tax upon houses. But if that were true, why should the House not perform its duty to the country, by acting upon a firm and well-founded conviction of what was most ad-
 532 bonus bonus 533 534 535 l., l. l. 536 An Hon. Member: l. 537
 Lord Althorp  said, that, in taking off the tax on farmers' servants under eighteen years of age, his object was not so much to relieve the persons who employed them as to render those servants useful, and to prevent them from the temptations that resulted from their living out of the houses of their employers. In confining the taking off of the window-duties to farmhouses, his object was, to do for the country what he had done for the towns by taking off the House-tax. In the circumstances in which he found the country placed, he thought he was doing right when he took off the House-duty, and, if he could find any means to supply the deficiency that would arise from taking off the duty on glass, he certainly would be glad to remove that duty also. If hon. Gentlemen pressed for so many different reductions, it would be impossible for him to make the reductions he thought would be most beneficial to the country generally. His hon. friend had suggested many reductions. He hoped, and even thought, that he should be enabled to make still further reductions, and he assured the House that he would continue to make reductions as long as he could make them consistently
 542
 Lord Althorp  observed, that a similar operation had taken place in 1830.
 Lord Althorp  thought, that the hon. Gentleman himself had made one or two mistakes in his account of these public transactions, and that he had added to those mistakes by what he had just addressed to the House. The hon. Gentleman objected to his (Lord Althorp's) proceedings, on the ground that they were contrary, if not to the letter, at all events to the spirit of the law. Now, in answer to this, he begged to state, that he applied to the Gentleman who had for years and years been employed in these transactions, and who advised him that he could take the course that had been adopted, without doing anything unusual, or in opposition to the Acts of Parliament relating to these matters. As to the operation itself,
 521 l. 522
 Lord Althorp  rose to lay before the Committee not merely the general state of the finances of the country, but also the prospects of improvement which he thought he might fairly anticipate, and the means by which he expected to arrive at that favourable result. He was unwilling to detain them by any general preliminary remarks, and would therefore at once proceed to the question, referring only as he proceeded to such facts and principles as might be necessary to explain and vindicate the financial propositions which he should have to bring under the consideration of the Committee. He would begin by stating what was the amount of the income and comparative expenditure of the year ending the 5th of July.
 
 
 £ 
 The receipt of the year ending 5th of July, 1834, amounted to 46,914,586 
 And the expenditure to 44,737,556 
 leaving a surplus of income over expenditure of 2,177,030 499 
 
 £ 
 The surplus of income over expenditure, in the year ending the 5th of July, 1833, was 1,501,933 
 And, as he had stated, the surplus up to the 5th of July, 1834, amounted to 2,177,030 
 The improvement in the surplus during the present year had been 675,000 
 The receipts of this year were 46,914,586 
 And the receipts of last year 46,895,007 l. l. l. 
 
 £ 
 For the army 6,497,903 
 Navy 4,578,009 
 Ordnance 1,166,914 
 Miscellaneous 2,228,387 
 £ 
 Making in the whole 14,471,213 
 What they had therefore to provide for was: 
 — For the Consolidated Fund 30,500,000 
 And for Supplies 14,471,213 
 £ 
 Making a total of 44,971,213 
 The supplies for 1834 were 14,620,487 
 For 1835 14,471,213 
 £ 
 exhibiting a diminution in supplies for 1835 of 149,274 500 l.; l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l., 501 Hon. Member: l.; l. l. l., l. l., l., l. l. l. l.; l. l., 502 l., l. l. l., 
 
 Original surplus 1,200,000 
 Bank 120,000 
 Four-per-Cents 50,000 
 Tea 250,000 
 Surplus £1,620,000 l. 503 504 l. l., 
 
 No. of Licenses, 38,500 At £2 2 £80,849 
 No. of Licenses, 26,205 4 4 110,061 
 No. of Licenses, 3,700 6 6 23,309 
 No. of Licenses, 2,154 7 7 15,831 
 No. of Licenses, 3,879 8 8 32,583 
 No. of Licenses, 2,472 9 9 23,361 
 No. of Licenses, 4,700 10 10 49,350 
 81,610 £335,344 l. l.; l., 
 
 Present surplus £.1,620,000 
 Spirits 160,000 
 Beer 35,000 
 £1,815,000 505 l. l. l. l. 
 
 Rate of Duty Estimated Loss by Repeal. 
 £. s. d. £. 
 On windows in farm-houses, occupied by tenants under 200 l. l. l. 35,000 
 On husbandry horses, used occasionally for riding, or drawing untaxed carriages, by tenants of farms under 500 l. l. l. l. 1 8 9 10,000 
 On husbandry horses, used occasionally for other purposes, or let occasionally to hire. Husbandry horses are exempt, but are liable to a duty of 10 s. d., 0 10 6 2,000 506 
 
 On horses used by bailiffs, shepherds, or herdsmen 1 8 9 2,000 
 On shepherds and herdsmen's dogs 0 8 0 3,000 
 On male servants, under eighteen years of age, provided they have a legal settlement in the parish where hired 1 4 0 20,000 
 On one riding-horse, kept by clergymen, or Dissenting or Catholic ministers, whose incomes are under 120 l. l. 1 8 9 3,000 
 The Bachelors'-duty (additional 20 s. 1 0 0 100 
 On post-horses used occasionsionally by licensed postmasters in husbandry, and for drawing manure, fuel, &c. An innkeeper is liable to a duty of 10 s. d. 0 10 6 
 75,100 s. d. d. d. l. l. 
 
 House Tax £.1,200,000 
 Customs Bill 200,000 
 Starch 75,000 
 Stone bottles and sweets 6,000 
 Assessed Taxes 75,000 
 Almanacks 25,000 
 £.1,581,000 l. l., l. l., l., 507 l., l., l. l. s. d. s. d. s. d. 
 
 In 1828 6,671,562 
 1829 7,759,687 
 1830 7,700,766 
 1831 7,732,101 
 1832 7,434,047 
 1833 7,281,900 
 1834 7,717,303 508 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d., s. d., s. d, s. d., 
 
 Gals. s. d. 
 1832 5,691,096 3 4 
 1833  5,401,651 3 4 
 1834 5,982,920 3 4 
 Year ending5th April,1834  6,112,659 3 4 
 Half-year ending 5th April, 1834 3,257,856 3 4 s. d. s. d. s. d., 509 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. s. d. s. d. l.; 510 l. l. 511 
 
 January, 1831.—Receipts £50,056,616 
 Payments 47,142,943 
 £2,913,673 
 July, 1834.—Receipts £46,914,586 
 Payments 44,737,556 
 £2,177,030 l. l. l.; l. 
 
 Years. Produce of the United Kingdom. Foreign and Colonial Merchandise. Total Reports. 
 £ £ £ 
 1828 52,797,000 9,946,000 62,744,000 
 1829 56,213,000 10,622,000 66,835,000 
 1830 61,140,000 8,550,000 69,691,000 
 3)170,150,000 3)29,118,000 3)199,270,000 
 Average 56,716,000 9,706,000 66,423,000 
 1831 60,683,000 10,745,000 71,429,000 
 1832 65,926,000 11,044,000 76,071,000 
 1833 69,989,000 9,833,000 79,823,000 
 3)195,698,000 3)31,622,000 3)227,323,000 
 Average 65,232,000 10,540,000 75,774,000 
 Increase on the average of the last three years as compared with the former three years 8,516,000 834,000 9,351,000 512 l. 513 l.
 Lord Althorp  stated, that with respect to the unfunded debt, properly so called, there was no increase whatever. There might have been issues of Exchequer-bills for private purposes, but for general purposes there had been no increased issues, at least none that could in any way affect the surplus for the year. The cause of the increased charge for interest for the unfunded debt was, that permanent annuities had been changed into terminable ones. Some had been converted into life annuities; indeed a very considerable sum had been so converted; and this also added to the increased charge.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, nothing could be more fair than the temperate
 479 480 Baring: 481
 Mr. Ronayne  said, that he had opposed this Bill in every stage from its commencement, and he should continue to contest it to the last. He felt it his duty to struggle strenuously against a Bill which was not only an injury, but an insult to Ireland. He considered this Bill to be at once wanton and vexatious; no case had been made out for its introduction. They had no evidence before them but the Report upon the Table, made up out of the (no doubt disinterested) testimony of stipendiary Magistrates. There were thirty-two Lords-lieutenant of counties in Ireland, and if there existed the over-
 545 546 felo de se, bonâ fide 547 548
 Mr. Ruthven  seconded the Amendment. The Bill was so objectionable, and so uncalled for by the circumstances of the case, that he was resolved to meet it in every stage of its progress throughout that House with the most decided opposition. The Bill ought not to pass, because it was clear that it had not been sanctioned by a united Cabinet. Ireland had often been the victim of the misgovernment of a disunited Ministry, and the circumstances which had lately transpired respecting the bringing forward of this Coercion Bill showed that she was so in this instance. Last year Ireland was persecuted by the Coercion Bill; and this year she was made a plaything of to suit the state of parties in the Ministry and the country. Last year the county of Kilkenny was proclaimed, though it was not pretended that any disturbances existed in it. On what ground, then, was it proclaimed? On the ground that there might be disturbances in it. Why, every county in Ireland might have been proclaimed on the same principle. Because public meetings had been proscribed in Ireland he, on every occasion, used more violent language in Ireland last year than he had ever done before, and than he would have done had not the measure been applied to his native country. He must take that opportunity to complain of the Lord-lieutenants of counties and the Magistrates of Ireland. The latter were the satellites of the former, and were chosen, not because of their fitness for office, but because they secured electioneering influence. The Magistrates were the familiars of the Government inquisition, and, instead of being increased in number, might be swept off in scores.
 Mr. Tower  would vote for the third reading, though with great reluctance, for he regretted, that the state of Ireland should unfortunately be such as to make such a Bill as the present indispensably necessary.
 Mr. Sheil  said, the authority of Lord Wellesley, who rested his opinion on the authority of the police, was the only ground on which this Bill could be sustained. With respect to the police, they might be very fit to execute laws, but very little calcu-
 549 550 551 552 553
 The Attorney General  said, it was neces-
 555 bona fide, v. v. 556 557
 Colonel Perceval  rose, not so much to give his opinion on the utility of the clauses, as to set himself right with the House respecting the statement he had made the day before, from a Limerick newspaper. He spoke to the hon. and learned member for Dublin, and the hon. and learned Member's account of the facts of the case differed from what the newspaper which he had given as his authority alleged.
 Mr. O'Reilly  rose to order. The hon. Member was not speaking to the subject before the House.
 Colonel Perceval  said, that those who lived in glass-houses ought not to throw stones. The hon. Member was himself egregiously out of order in interrupting him. He should examine into the facts of the case, and if it turned out that what he had stated was correct, he should give notice of a Motion on the subject.
 Mr. Serjeant Perrin  objected to the 28th Clause, considering that it was unnecessary, that it would be liable to abuse, and that it would encourage a licentious army in outrages upon the people. The Attorney General, who had discussed the matter as a question of law, had not shown the House the meaning of the words "in
 558 559 nolle prosequi. 560 d
 Lord Althorp  observed, that setting aside all irrelevant considerations, the question for the House to determine was, the expediency and propriety of the enactment proposed. And, first, with respect to the military part of the subject; the question was, whether for acts done,  bona fide, 561 bona fide 562
 Mr. Lynch  contended, that the argument of the noble Lord went the whole extent of saying, that the military should go altogether unpunished, in consequence of the difficulties of the situation in which they would be placed. The noble Lord, no doubt, dissented from that proposition. Such was the effect of the noble Lord's argument; for if these officers, non-commissioned officers, and soldiers, acted in strict conformity to and in pursuance of the Act, where was the occasion of withdrawing their responsibility from the ordinary tribunals of the land? But, said the noble Lord, they would be placed in a difficult situation in a proclaimed district, and, therefore, they should not be responsible to the common tribunals, but to Courts-martial. Must not that be on the supposition that Courts-martial would look upon their conduct in a light different from that by which it would be viewed by Juries and the Judges of the land? If not, where was the necessity for the clause? But, in point of fact, such was the object of the clause; and, upon that ground, he protested against it. Besides, he doubted considerably whether all remedy was not taken away from the party aggrieved by means of this clause. He (Mr. Lynch) had taken the liberty the other evening of stating what he conceived to be the law upon the subject; and he was happy to find that the cases then stated by the Attorney General bore out his statement of the law, which was, that if these individuals exceeded their jurisdiction, or did anything not authorised by the Act, they would be amenable to the ordinary tribunals; but if, act-
 563 564 565
 Mr. Tancred  supported the clause. It was but fitting that they should give those parties who acted  bona fide
 Mr. O'Reilly  observed, that the right hon. Gentlemen opposite took credit for omitting the Court-martial clause, and yet they still retained a clause of the most objectionable character. If the noble Lord believed that the Juries in disturbed districts would be partial and guided by their passions, must he not on the same principle anticipate an undue leniency on the part of the Courts-martial? They would be composed of officers acting in the disturbed districts, irritated by the resistance they met, and, therefore, disposed to make improper allowances for the excesses of privates.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that he thought the conduct of the Irish Law Officers, who were unrepresented in that House, had not been very fairly dealt with by hon. Members who had preceded him, particularly as those were also learned Members, who probably were very willing to take the places of those Gentlemen to whose prejudice their observations had been made. For his part, it was but justice in him to say, that he himself had had some judicial experience of the manner in which Crown prosecutions were conducted in Ireland, and he must bear
 566 567 568 569 570
 Mr. Littleton  said: The House are aware that the duties of the office which the hon. and learned Gentleman holds, frequently calls him to Dublin, and that on such occasions he is in the habit of dining at the Sheriff's dinners, and giving free vent to the out-pourings of the spirit of the party to which he belongs. Now, I have no objection to his remaining in Dublin altogether; and I think the House will agree with me that he ought to do so, if he continues in the situation which he now holds. It is the hon. and learned Gentleman's practice, at least once in every Session, to furnish the House with a  rechauffé
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, it was amusing to hear the attack, which, in the fury of faction, the hon. and learned Gentleman had made upon the present Government. The present Government need not fear the attacks of either that hon. Member, or the party to which he belonged. The object of the present Ministers was to give peace and tranquillity to Ireland. That party which assailed them, had for three hundred years produced nothing in Ireland but oppression, tyranny, and blood. The object of that contemptible and wicked faction had been to oppress and spoliate Ireland in every way they could, and in the perpetration of their guilty purpose they
 571
 Mr. O'Dwyer  said, that he believed the hon. and learned Gentleman had, by this time, discovered that he was not at a Sheriff's dinner. He thought, also, that the hon. Member had made another discovery, that language, which was hailed with such delight amid the carousals of the loyal and very Protestant Corporation of Dublin, was not entitled to the slightest consideration in that House. The right hon. Secretary had referred to a speech recently delivered at a Sheriff's dinner. It happened, that by accident he had then in his pocket the last speech delivered by the hon. and learned Gentleman at the identical Sheriff's dinner referred to. It would be well for the House to listen to the post-prandial opinions delivered amidst Bacchanal applause by the hon. and learned Gentleman, and to compare them with those sentiments which he had now uttered in all the solemnity of his meridian politics. After some prefatory violence—the hon. and learned Gentleman proceeded to say—"I will not conceal my opinion, that at this moment we are approaching a crisis of revolution, and that all my predictions are about to be verified." What an innocent prophecy for a Recorder! The hon. Gentleman further said—"In any crisis, the party to which we belong would take office most reluctantly; but without any sacrifice of principle." But for this Coercion Bill
 572
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, he could not suffer the present Motion to be carried without entering his solemn protest against several of the clauses of the Bill, which, were, in his opinion, as unnecessary as they were unjust and unconstitutional. Instead of promoting tranquillity in Ireland, this Bill would have the contrary effect. But what was it that endangered the peace of that country, but the absence of the nobility and gentry, whose bounden duty it was to see that proper moral instruction was provided for the people? Without the inculcation of the principles of morality amongst the people, military force would be of no avail; and although he gave the Government full credit for having given up the Court-martial clauses, he must protest against a measure which he was satisfied would answer no good end.
 Mr. O'Reilly  said, that he must also protest against this Bill as a most unnecessary piece of legislation. He had never been disposed to encourage by any act of his anything that could excite agrarian disturbances; but without entering into the question, as to whether agrarian disturbances were not occasioned by political agitation, he was prepared to contend, that in no point of view were the Government entitled to the powers which the Bill would place in their hands. If they really wished to see Ireland in perfect tranquillity, they must remove the causes which gave rise to the disturbances that occurred in that unhappy country; for, do what they might, the effects would remain until the causes from which they sprung were removed. If the Irish Tithe Bill—a measure susceptible of very great improvement—were passed, certainly one great cause of discontent would be got rid of; but his reason for objecting to this Bill was, that the law as it stood was amply sufficient for the suppression of agrarian disturbances. The code of law commonly called the Whiteboy Act, provided for every offence of this kind that could occur; and if that code was insufficient for the purpose, they had the Statute of the 27th of George 3rd, which did not leave a single insurrectionary offence untouched. It should also be recollected, that Roman Catholics were prohibited from carrying arms; and if, then, they were so well provided with laws to meet all the exigences which might arise, he could not see the necessity for a Coercion Bill, which was in every point of view objectionable.
 Mr. O'Connell  would not detain the House many minutes, but he owed it to
 574 575 576
 Lord Althorp  wished to make a single observation on a statement which had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman, the member for Dublin. The hon. Gentleman said, that the omission of the clauses which had been struck out of the Bill went to show, that the Government did not think that there was any connexion between political agitation and agrarian disturbances. Now, he (Lord Althorp) begged to say, that the admission of the Government did not go to any such extent; on the contrary, they believed there was some connexion between the two circumstances, though not to the extent that was generally supposed. Much exaggeration had taken place on the
 577
 Mr. Sheil  said, that belonging to the party of which his hon. and learned friend (Mr. O'Connell) was the leader, he felt it necessary to express his dissent from one statement which had fallen from him. His hon. and learned friend had no objection to give the Lord-lieutenant power to proclaim any district he pleased to be in a disturbed state; but for his (Mr. Sheil's) part, he never would consent to confer a power so arbitrary upon any Lord-lieutenant.
 Mr. O'Connell  explained, that the power which he meant to confer, would only remedy a defect which existed in the present law.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  declared, that he would oppose the granting of any such power as rendering the clauses alluded to, perpetual. He never would give his sanction to a permanent measure of the kind.
 Mr. O' Dwyer  wished to know from the noble Viscount (the Secretary for Foreign Affairs), whether the opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown had been taken, as to whether the murderer of Mr. Boyd was not amenable to the laws of this country?
 Viscount Palmerston  replied, that he had received the opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown, which stated, that General Moreno was not amenable to any tribunal in this country.
 Mr. William E. Gladstone  said, that having received his education in one of those venerable institutions, the constitution of which the present Bill proposed so materially to alter, he craved the attention of the House whilst he endeavoured to expose a few of the fallacies which were entertained by the public as to the fitness and expediency of legislation on this subject. In the first place he could not but observe, whatever might be the propriety of the present measure, the House and the country were decidedly labouring under a delusion if they fancied that such an enactment could be practically carried into effect. He did not mean to say, that the authorities of these Universities would resort to any subterfuge for the obstruction of its provisions; but by the natural exercise of the discretionary powers with which they were invested, and in the ordinary course of the forms to which applicants for admission must in all cases conform, persons of obnoxious character or principle could not hope to be admitted. The law might enact that the new student should be subject to no test of faith on his admittance, and to that law the Universities would be obliged to bow obedience. But it should be recollected, that before the ceremony of matriculation could take place the Vice-Chancellor had to inquire of the new corner what College he belonged to. Here they were all abroad at once, for the tutors and heads of Colleges, holding and being resolved to act up to the opinions they now entertained, would invariably refuse admittance to their respective Colleges in the first instance. The Bill would consequently be inoperative, and it might be asked of him, therefore, why he should now rise to oppose it, since it could do no harm? But though the present measure was not one which could work out the objects which were held in view by its promulgators it was one which, if passed, must inevitably lead
 636 637 638 639 "Made a solitude and called it peace:"
 Mr. Vernon Smith  could not believe that the effect of this Bill would be to subvert the Established Church of this country. On the contrary, he thought that such a measure must be beneficial to the Church. The preamble of the Bill removed the necessity of subscription to the Thirty-nine Articles upon entrance to the University of Oxford; and the practice of compelling subscriptions to the Thirty-nine Articles upon entrance at Oxford was very prejudicial to the interests of the Church. When he went first to the University of Oxford, he appeared before the Vice-Chancellor of that day, the late Dr. Hudson, a learned and excellent individual, who of all men would be the last to administer carelessly or negligently the prescribed forms of the University. He had subscribed a variety of things usually put before young men upon matriculation—such, for instance, as that he would never appear in the High-street except in blue breeches and yellow stockings, and many other things of the same sort, until,
 640 641
 Mr. Baines  said, that he should claim
 642 643 644
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, that the hon. Member, one of the Lords of the Treasury (Mr. Vernon Smith), in his support of the Bill, must be considered as having made a very ungracious and ungenerous return to the University of Oxford, whose education had enabled him to address the House with so much ability. Notwithstanding the remarks he (Mr. Hughes Hughes) had several times taken occasion to make (as the hon. Mover was aware) on occasion of presenting petitions to the House against the Bill, he could not content himself with giving an entirely silent vote, and the more so as the hon. Lord of the Treasury had referred to the annual grant made by Parliament to defray the charges of the salaries and allowances to certain Professors in the Universities, as entitling the Dissenters to the admission sought by the Bill. Now, as he had, on a former opportunity, stated to the House, it appeared by Returns laid upon the Table, on a Motion made by him, that the amount annually received from the Universities, as duty on matriculations and degrees, was upwards of five times as large as the annual grants to which reference had been made. Not,
 645 646
 Mr. Goulburn  —They had now a Bill different from the former one: the present Bill was not the same as that called for by the petition, or the same as that brought in by the member for Lancashire. And was the House of Commons now called on to pass in its third stage a Bill different from the Bill introduced in the former stage? The hon. Member gave no reason for the change. If there were not some finesse designed, he would have explained the cause of the change. His objection to the Bill was founded on the inconsistency, if not the mischief, of separating religious from literary education. He would never assent to give up as a compliment the utility of training up the youth of the country in religions instruction, according as the petition from Cambridge advised. If they abandoned the form of religion they would soon learn to abandon the essence of religion. If Dissenters accepted of the terms of admission they were bound to conform to the rules of the College to which they obtained admission. Again, he would say, that if he found one individual who would open the Colleges to Dissenters under existing circumstances, that man had a more pliant conscience than he had. He intended only to say a few words in reply to the arguments advanced; but these he would utter honestly. Those Gentlemen had no right to supersede the statutes and principles of the University. Sane of the arguments went on the assumption, and it was nothing else, that the Colleges were national institutions for the national good, without reference to religion. He could not see it in that light. If they did not train the minds of the youth of the country to the principles and habits of religion, it would be hard to say, to what end their morality would tend. He should regret
 647 Baines 648
 Viscount Palmerston  (who spoke amidst cries of "question" and repeated interruptions) contended, that the only argument used by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Goulburn) was, that the Bill must destroy religious education at the Universities. Now, if that assertion were disproved, the whole of his argument fell to the ground. Then he (Lord Palmerston) asked, were not Dissenters admitted without hindrance to Cambridge? They were. [Mr.  Goulburn 649 650 651
 Sir Robert Inglis  rose amidst cries of "Divide." He had before had the indulgence of the House extended to him; it was not abused; and if it were now again extended to him, it should not be abused. The noble Lord had entirely misunderstood the argument of his right hon. friend (Mr. Goulburn), which was, that under the present system the heads of the Colleges at Cambridge did not know, through any of the College laws or regulations, that there was a distinction there. The fact was, that no exception was made at Cambridge in favour of Dissenters, and there was but one discipline for all students. Now, this Bill would entirely alter that, and expressly provide, not a system of discipline for the University, but a system for the admission of Dissenters. The hon. member for Northampton (Mr. Vernon Smith) had said, that no doubt when the Bill was passed, the heads of Colleges would be found to concur in its provisions rather than sacrifice their places. That hon. Member knew but little of the principle which animated those honourable men. He could well admit, that a Whig might be ready enough to sacrifice his principles for his place; but he was more confident that the heads of the Houses in the Universities would never make any such sacrifice, but would ever maintain their principles, even though they should lose their places. He was indeed astonished to hear such an imputation against those honourable men from one who had been educated by them. Had the hon. Member forgotten how Magdalen sent forth her fellows when the tyrant James attempted to force upon them a new principle? Such men would again be found if a similar occasion occurred. If that Bill passed, it would speedily appear, that there was in Oxford a power to awake in every College a resistance that would reject it, and he had good reason to believe, that a like spirit of high and pure principle would not be found wanting in Cambridge. The hon. member for Leeds had said, that the Universities were national establishments,
 652
 Mr. George Wood  was inaudible for some time, owing to the cry of "Question." The hon. Member continued standing for a considerable time, but could not obtain a hearing.
 The Speaker  suggested, that perhaps some one of the hon. Members who were so much opposed to the debate going on would, on reconsideration, move its adjournment to some future day.
 Mr. George Wood  was then allowed to proceed, though not without interruption. He contended, that the Bill had not been altered either in its principles or its enactments. If the Bill should pass, and the heads of Colleges should wish to defeat it by enacting bye-laws, the remedy was easy, and would consist in the foundation of new Colleges. The Bill threw the Universities open, but it interfered with no private College. The Bill would only make Oxford do that which Cambridge practically did, and Oxford and Cambridge do that which Dublin did. He had not brought forward the Bill for sectarian purposes, for he really believed that, instead of promoting sectarianism, it would make it less offensive, by making the Church more tolerant and comprehensive.
 Mr. Estcourt  said, the hon. member for Leeds had attributed a statement to Professor Pusey wholly at variance with the
 653
 Mr. Baines  had quoted the words of Professor Pusey.
 Mr. Langdale  presented a Petition from John Howard Kyan, to inquire into a process which he had invented, for the prevention of Dry Rot in timber. The hon. Member stated, that an experiment of the discovery made by the petitioner had been fully tried by the Government at Woolwich and other dockyards in the country. A large piece of timber was placed in the "fungus pit" at Woolwich, and after remaining several years in the pit was found to be perfectly sound, and continued so after exposure many years to the open air. Mr. Farraday, who was at first opposed to the process, became so convinced by experiments of its efficacy, that he had lectured at the Royal Institution in favour of it. The fact was, that the corrosive sublimate (the matter used) formed a chymical combination with that part of the vegetable matter most likely to be affected, which altogether prevented a chance of dry-rot. Under these circumstances, the House would not do its duty if it did not press upon the Admiralty the adoption of the patent. If inquiry was necessary, it could be obtained by a Committee in two or three days, as all those most capable of affording it resided in town.
 Mr. Rotch  expressed his perfect satisfaction with what had fallen from the hon. Member, and observed, that if such a disposition had been evinced by the Admiralty five years ago, the House would never have been troubled with the present petition. He thought, nevertheless, the petitioner had just reason to complain of the treatment he had suffered from the Admiralty. It was perfectly true that a piece of prepared timber had been put into the "fungus pit" at Woolwich, but the request to put a piece of plain timber into the pit with that which was prepared, was actually refused; and, therefore, the trial was in fact no trial, although after several years the prepared piece of timber came out of the pit in the same state that it went in. The hon. Member mentioned other instances where, for the purpose of experiment, sound and unsound timber had been put into the pit; that which came out as sound as it went in was officially reported to be infected with the rot, and that which was put in in a rotten state, was reported to he sound. On a public examination which subsequently took place, upon the very same wood which had been a second time the subject of experiment, the same individual was compelled to eat his own words, and actually reported the identical wood sound which he had before reported infected.
 619
 Mr. Charles Grant  said, that there were two points alluded to by his right hon. friend, to which he would at once give an answer, because he fully coincided with him upon them. The first was, that he had only done his duty in making this inquiry, and the second was, that, notwithstanding the vast extent to which his right hon. friend's opinions differed from his own, still he (Mr. Grant) was sure the House would coincide with him in admitting the courtesy with which his right hon. friend had called the attention of Parliament to the subject. There was another observation of his right hon. friend which had his fullest concurrence—namely, that the affair called for the most serious attention of the Legislature. He was sorry that an old observation was likely to become proverbial, that the affairs of India were daily becoming more and more matters of indifference in that House. It was, there-
 627 628 l 629 mandamus 630 de novo 631 632
 Mr. Charles Wood  said, the observations of the hon. Member rendered it necessary for him to trouble the House with a very few words on this subject. The whole of this transaction had undergone the strictest investigation, and, from the year 1826, when the claim was first made, down to the present time, there never had been the slightest difference of opinion entertained by any one of the individuals who had successively composed the Board. They all unanimously agreed that the claim was entirely without foundation. The Treasury was very far from being hostile to any inquiry the House
 616 l l
 Mr. George F. Young  said, if a loss was sustained by any individual from a loan made by the Treasury, that alone was subject matter for inquiry. He trusted the hon. and gallant Member would bring the subject under the consideration of the house in the next Session of Parliament, after it had been admitted by the hon. Secretary to the Treasury that the public
 617
 Mr. Labouchere  could not agree with the doctrine of the hon. Member, that such questions as these were adapted for the consideration of that House, and hoped he would not force upon it the overseer-ship of the navy, as it would lead to a great deal of inconvenience and confusion, at the same time, he could assure the House, that every disposition prevailed at the Admiralty to give the discovery of the petitioner a full and impartial trial. The hon. Member had correctly stated, that
 618
 Mr. Warburton  supported the prayer of the petition, and observed, that he had no wish to impugn the character of the present Treasury. Circumstances, however, had lately come out which went to show, that the Treasury was not in all cases an oracle of truth. He did not impeach the present Treasury, but he must be permitted to observe that events had occurred which might induce that House to believe that on former occasions the Treasury was not the best authority for the existence or non-existence of certain documents. Here was a denial of the existence of the contract in the first instance; and when the Duke of Wellington was applied to, the Treasury produced the document. This was a case which called for inquiry, and he hoped it would be taken up early in the next Session.
 Mr. Herries  rose to call the attention of the House to a subject of very great importance. He begged the indulgence of the House as he feared he should be obliged to trespass upon their attention for some time. It had been his intention to have brought forward the subject as an Amendment on any Motion which might be made for a grant for the service of our East-India possessions; but the business of the House was conducted so irregularly, indeed, of necessity so irregularly, that he trusted no apology was required, either for delaying the subject so long or for bringing it forward at the present time. When he considered the nature of the case, and the extraordinary circumstances by which it was attended, it was a matter of surprise to him that no other Member had taken up the affair, and made it a subject of discussion; for he felt convinced that when the House heard the statement he was about to submit to them, they would be of opinion, that the circumstances connected with the case were most extraordinary, and exhibited conduct as strange as any that ever took place in any public department. The House was aware that in the last Session an Act was passed for the better administration of the affairs of India. The topic to which he was about to call the attention of the House was one of the first occurrences in the progress of the new system thus created, and the House would judge whether or not it afforded a good omen of future temperance and discretion in the administration of the affairs of that country. On the one side there was an exercise of power—of authority and peremptory command to put a certain order into execution; on the other hand, on the part of those who received this order there was a fixed and resolute determination not to obey it—a determination which could be justified only by a strong conviction of the injustice of the command which they were called upon to fulfil. From the statement, clear and concise as it could be made, which he should feel it his duty to submit to the House, they must conclude that one or other of the two parties was very much in the wrong. He should first endeavour to state to the House the course of the most singular conflict which had taken place between
 621 622 623 mandamus 624 625 626 mandamus mandamus
 Mr. Hume  doubted very much if the right hon. Baronet, who was so desirous that others should understand the subject, really understood it himself. The right hon. Baronet had asked why this one claim only was selected. The reason was, which the right hon. Gentleman did not seem to know, that this was the only claim that remained unsatisfied. Could any thing be clearer than that the Nabob of Oude admitted the justice of this claim when he offered a compromise? But
 635
 Sir Edward Codrington  was of opinion, notwithstanding the explanation that had been given, that the Treasury were bound to fulfil the engagement they had entered into with the petitioners. It was monstrous to say, that because a contract had proved a bad one, the parties were exonerated from the performance of it.
 Sir Edward Codrington  was convinced there was every disposition to give scientific discoveries a fair trial by the present Lords of the Admiralty, as evinced in the present instance, as well as in the case of some of his constituents, who bad submitted some discoveries to the Board of Admiralty and had received the greatest encouragement. The blame rested with the late Admiralty, of which he would give the House an instance. A Danish officer sent a valuable discovery to the Admiralty for experiment. His invention met with no encouragement, and probably no trial was made of it, and in a short time he was informed it was useless. Under these circumstances, he (Sir Edward Codrington) gave him a letter of introduction to Admiral de Rigny; the invention was immediately adopted by the French government, and applied to the whole of the French navy. He had the curiosity to ask the officer what he demanded for his discovery, when he said, he should have been contented to give it up to the Admiralty for 500 l
 Sir Edward Codrington  presented a Petition from the tradesmen employed in furnishing the materials and in executing the works in the mansion erected in the Green Park called York House, upon the order of his late Royal Highness, the Duke of York. The petitioners stated, that being desirous to ascertain on what foundation they were to proceed, they obtained the autograph assurances of his Royal Highness that their bills should be paid every six months, as the works proceeded, and that they thereupon continued to execute them; that finding, at an early stage of their proceeding with the building, they were rapidly advancing a serious amount of capital to carry on their respective works they became alarmed lest any miscalculation of the total cost of the intended mansion might have been made, and thereupon deemed it right and prudent to ascertain from what source the monies were to be derived; that after much persevering diligence, they discovered that the various sums employed from time to time in making payments to them in respect of York-house were furnished from a department of his Majesty's Government, and were in fact part of the public resources
 614 l l 615 l
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the arguments of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down were by no means sufficient to bear out his vindication of the course he had adopted in suing out a writ of mandamus from the Court of King's Bench to compel the East-India Company to enforce these claims upon the unfortunate prince on whom they were made. The question was within a very narrow compass, and to make it intelligible to those Members of the House who did not perhaps wish to hear much of the intricacies of the case, or of those strange Eastern names to which English ears were not much accustomed, he should give a very plain statement of the transaction, so as to put it on a footing intelligible to all. This debt, as well as many others of the same nature, was contracted so long as forty years ago, bearing an interest of thirty-six per cent. Since then, several Governors of India had made application for a settlement of these claims, and had endeavoured by their amicable interference to procure an arrangement satisfactory to the parties, but none of them ever thought of proceeding to any other course than that of a friendly interference, He considered it a very harsh measure, and by no means a just one, to call for the interference of the Court of King's Bench to compel the Company to pay this large sum. Was the Government prepared, and did it feel itself at liberty, to vindicate the claim of every British subject who happened to lend his money to a foreign independent State without the Government of the country, or its agents, having in any way become responsible for or guaranteeing the repayment of that loan? This was precisely the footing on which the question stood. If such were the views on which the Government was acting in the matter it was clearly confounding transactions of debt with which we had nothing to do with those other wrongs which alone in an international sense could call for the interference of our Government to protect British subjects. In cases of simple debt contracted by an independent State with a British subject, he contended the Government of this country had nothing whatever to do; but, above all, it could not be justified in attempting to interfere by force. If the right hon. Gentleman was prepared on the part of the Govern-
 633 634
 Mr. John Stanley  said, that he had received no information upon the subject, but, perhaps, his noble friend, the member for the county of Devon, could give the hon. Gentleman some.
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to take the sense of the House on the question upon which he had given notice for the postponement of the measure for the present Session; for, whatever might have been the form of his notice, such was its object. Difficulties which had arisen prevented him from bringing his motion forward at an earlier period; and he should at present confine himself to as few topics as he possibly could. He had first to inform the House, that the Bill itself contained 172 clauses. This was what he might term the large Bill—while there was another, which added 30 clauses to the original Bill, making in all 200 clauses. It was unnecessary for him to remind the House, that they had now arrived at the 29th of July; so here were 200 clauses to be considered; and they were of such a nature as to affect the people of Ireland doubly—they affected both the tithe-payers and tithe-receivers—those who desired to be relieved from the burthen, and those who wished to make it the means of a large and emolumentary possession. Besides, in its nature, the Bill was of vital importance to Ireland. There was no man acquainted with that
 714 715 l l 716 717 718 l l l l l 719 l l
 Mr. Littleton  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had referred to the
 720 l 721 pro tanto,
 Mr. Sheil  supported the proposition of the hon. and learned member for the city of Dublin. The English Tithe Bill had been introduced at an early period of the Session, and had been abandoned in consequence of the disapprobation of certain gentlemen who came up as delegates from all parts of the country; and yet the Irish Tithe Bill, which had not been produced till a late period, was obstinately persevered in, notwithstanding the united opposition of the two Irish parties in that House. He opposed the Bill because it greatly exaggerated the value of tithes. The lay tithes, instead of being scheduled at 1,000,000 l l 722
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, that everyone of the various Bills introduced from time to time in that House, were declared to be for the pacification of Ireland, and for the permanent settlement of the tithe question. Especially the several Bills respecting tithes were declared to be in every instance for the permanent settlement of the question, and, in an eminent degree, the Bill of 1828 was expected to produce that permanent settlement. Yet by what a strange process was that object sought to be accomplished—by nothing less than the enactment of a law which would sanction the arrest of an Irish landlord in England for the tithe debts alleged to be due by him in Ireland. What was another feature? Why, that certain parties were to have a bonus of forty per cent for collecting that which he would undertake to say, never could be collected. Let it be recollected, too, that this bonus was offered to parties constituting a class, a very large proportion of which stood in rather peculiar circumstances—he alluded to the persons holding leases for lives renewable for ever. They were chiefly persons having incomes of 500 l l l 723 l l 724 725
 Lord Althorp  observed, that the hon. and learned member for Dublin moved for delay, without stating the course which, in the event of such delay being granted, he was prepared to recommend Parliament to pursue. As far as he could understand the object of the hon. and learned Gentleman, it was limited to this—to postpone for the present Session the measure then before the House. The substitute which the hon. and learned Member proposed for the Bill was an advance of money, in order to enable his Majesty's Government to go on till the next Session of Parliament, without taking any definite step in the arrangement of the question of Irish tithes. His right hon. friend, the Secretary for Ireland, had, however, clearly stated, what must be the consequence of any such proceeding, namely, that so long a cessation in the collection of Church property, would make it almost a matter of impossibility ever to collect it at all. Now, he did not believe that that was the object of the hon. and learned Gentleman, or his friends; for, however they might differ from his Majesty's Government as to the appropriation of Church property, they all agreed that that property ought not to be abandoned. Unless, however, some step were taken to show, that that property would be collected, the total relinquishment of it would soon ensue as a matter of course. The hon. and learned Member had made some observations on what might be the effect of landlords, by this Bill, pursuing different courses; some taking the bonus offered by the Bill, and others not doing so; and he had stated, that in some cases the tenants would have to pay the whole of the tithes, in others only seventy-five per cent of the tithes, and in others only sixty per cent. In his (Lord Althorp's) opinion, the tendency of this would be to produce a more rapid commutation of the tithes by the prospect of benefit which that commutation would hold out. "But," said the hon. and learned Gentleman, "why not do that at once which you now propose to spread over the space of five years." That proposition had been under the serious
 726 727 728
 Mr. Lynch  said, that it was his intention to support the Motion of his hon. and learned friend, the member for Dublin; and he would do so, not only on account of the inconvenient season at which the question was brought forward, but because he objected to the Bill altogether. It was neither final nor satisfactory. Final it was admitted it was not, and satisfactory it could not be, for it neither gave a proper appropriation nor just redemption. The noble Lord said, that the question now was the preservation and security of the fund. They were called upon, therefore, to secure the fund, without knowing for what purpose it was to be applied. They were called upon to enter into a contract without being told what all the terms of that contract were. They were called upon to increase to an enormous extent the value of the property (if the expectations of the noble Lord were realised), without being informed for whose benefit the value of the property was to be so increased, except so far as they were informed by the Bill itself; and when he looked into the Bill, he there found that the appropriation was to be continued as heretofore for the support of the Establishment. He objected to this blindfold, this piecemeal legislation. He asked why this measure was not made final? His Majesty's Ministers had made up their minds, as they informed the House, to a different appropriation. Why
 729 730 731 732 733
 Mr. Ward  had paid an earnest attention to the arguments brought forward in support of his Amendment by the hon. and learned member for Dublin, and after giving them his most serious and dispassionate consideration, felt bound to say, that though they carried much weight in their application to certain clauses, yet that they did not at all effect those general principles on which the Bill was founded. In his opinion, the question of arrears required the immediate consideration of the Government; whether those arrears were great or small was not then the point—there were arrears, and that point peremptorily demanded, and ought, without any delay, to have the best attention of the Government. Now, he acknowledged that in the principle of the measure then before them there was much that was sound, much that was rational—that
 734 sine qua non 735
 Mr. Waddy  begged to say, that though the Irish Members in that House might be outvoted, they still ought to be heard as evidence of some weight, and as witnesses possessing some knowledge of the matter, derived from practical and personal observation. Clumsy and lumbering Acts of Parliament, however they might be multiplied, could do no good for Ireland. The people of that country were oppressed by high rents—by higher tithes; the appropriation of tithes, however, was the great question which now agitated Ireland—the people never again would pay them; and, until that question was definitely settled, neither peace nor happiness could prevail in that country. The Imperial Legislature had, indeed, been ever since the Union in the habit every year of passing Act after Act to settle this question, and each, after it had served its temporary purpose, or rather after having served no purpose at all, was, like those which went before it, "consigned to the tomb of all the Capulets," there to moulder and be forgotten like all its ancestors, as absurd and as useless as themselves. In his opinion, it was idle to separate this Bill from the question of appropriation—that alone was the grand question; the question was not about levying tithes; they never could levy them until the people of Ireland became assured that they would no longer be applied to maintain the pastors of another church. He respected the Protestant Church—he respected the Protestant clergy, although a few improper persons, as in every other Church, might be found amongst them. He would not abuse the Church or the clergy, on the contrary, he would support them as far as he could. He did not wish to find the Protestant Church endangered, and but for the abominable system of tithes the Protestant Church would be respected. That was his wish and his hope, and if it was not realized, the fault, perhaps, was not with the clergy, but with the state of
 736
 Dr. Lushington  admitted, that the Bill was exceedingly complicated and difficult to be explained; but this was unavoidable with reference to the subject-matter for which the Bill proposed to legislate, and the Acts of Parliament which had been already passed to settle the question. Every mode of legislation had been resorted to, and, he believed it was the general opinion, resorted to in vain. In framing a Bill for this exigency, it was not the fault of the present Government if it were not able, under the circumstances of this question, and in the state of society in Ireland, to produce at once a plain, single, and intelligible measure. The other alternatives were, to do nothing, or to leave the Bill of last Session to operate; but he had the opinion of the hon. member for Wexford (Mr. Waddy), and of other hon. Members, that the Bill of 1832 was exceedingly injurious to the peace of Ireland. If the Bill of 1832 was reprobated, then should they adopt the Bill of
 737 l l 738
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  could see no exigency which rendered the immediate passing of this Bill necessary; and as it was no effectual remedy or final measure, and gave no real relief to the occupying tenant, he would postpone it. In fact, it imposed upon landlords a tax which they would be unable to recover from their tenantry, and would only reduce the landlords to the same poverty as the tenantry. How could such a Bill be a benefit to Ireland? It compelled landlords to resort to more oppression and cruelty than before. Landlords, who wished to be kind and forbearing to their tenants, were taxed sixty per cent, and compelled to levy this tax from the tenant. Why not either take off, in a straightforward manner, forty per cent at once, or wait till the great question of appropriation was decided, and till they had the Report of the Commission?
 Mr. Barron  said, that, in the absence of any other plan which was likely to
 739
 Mr. Fryer  looked upon the Bill as a robbery Bill. The object appeared to be to take away money from the Irish Church and to give it to the Irish landlord. The Government, he considered, had acted in a cowardly manner. The full value of the tithe ought to have been imposed on the land. The Bill would never satisfy the people of Ireland. He was convinced they never would be the better for it.
 Mr. William Roche  spoke as follows:—Sir, ably and amply argued as this question has already been, I shall not venture to detain you long. Apprehensive, Sir, as I am that this Bill is not calculated to create general satisfaction, nor to arrive at a speedy, sound, and equitable settlement of so momentous, so long floating and fluctuating a question. Believing, therefore, that it is susceptible of much improvement in order to render it perfect and permanent, and that it may, during the recess, experience that improvement, especially by the introduction of two most vital, but omitted principles, those of a salutary appropriation of any excess of income and of an encouraging plan for redemption of tithes, with a view to their final extinction, I do think it would be advisable, with these objects, to defer the measure to next Session, in expectation of
 740 741 vexata questio
 Mr. Walker  regretted he was under the necessity of taking a different view from some of his Irish friends, and that he could not vote for the proposition of his learned friend, the member for Dublin, to postpone legislation on the tithe question to the next Session; his reason for not supporting that Motion was, not that he would not be well pleased to obtain a longer time for the consideration of so difficult a subject, but that the people of Ireland stood at this moment in a most dreadful position as regarded the existing law; he meant that Act which passed last Parliament, and the operation of which, unless some alteration was made before the close of the present Session, would commence on the first of next November. He had in the last Parliament resisted that law to his utmost; it was a most atrocious and tyrannical law; and he was now placed between a choice of evils, the certain operation of that Act, which he knew would produce destruction of life and property, or the proceeding with legislation at this advanced, and therefore inconve-
 742 743
 Mr. Ruthven  said, that the plan which his hon. and learned Colleague had propounded would remove the difficulties which impeded legislation on this subject, and was founded on a principle of conciliation, which, if acted upon, would produce the happiest effects in Ireland. The legislation upon this subject had hitherto been adapted solely with a view to meet the exigency of the moment, a system which could not be too much condemned. He thought that Church property was public property, and ought to be kept for public purposes, instead of being frittered away under the pretence of giving a boon to landlords.
 Mr. Shaw  could not support the Motion of the hon. and learned Member against going into Committee upon a Bill for the second reading of which he (Mr. Shaw) had already voted; for strange as the House might think it, after all the changing and shifting of the Government in their opinions and declarations on the subject, yet the Bill they were now about going into Committee upon was, in every letter of it, the very same as he had approved of, including the redemption and appropriation clauses; but, in Committee, as he understood, the Government were to abandon the only principle of that, their own Bill—namely, redemption, and substitute for it another and a totally different measure, the effect of which must be to prevent redemption. He could not but congratulate himself in having his opinion so fully justified as it had been that night by the statements of the right hon. Secretary for Ireland (Mr. Littleton), and of the noble Lord (Lord Althorp), with respect to the pernicious tendency of temporary grants to the clergy, in lieu of their regular and just resources. He need not remind the House how strongly he had deprecated such a course last year, as a
 744 l 745 746 747
 Mr. O'Reilly  objected to the clause. Government could not collect tithes without the concurrence of the landlords. Many landlords would have no inducement to saddle themselves with the expense; and if they resisted, the Bill would be inoperative. The collectors should collect from several individuals in small frac-
 748
 Lord Althorp  said, that it would be desirable to pass over the land-tax, and convert it into a rent-charge, if such a thing were practicable, inasmuch as the tenants would be at once relieved by such a proceeding. But there were great difficulties in the way of adopting such a course, and he thought it would be most unjust to compel the landlords to take the payment upon themselves at once. He hoped, however, the landlords would be induced to do so voluntarily, in consequence of the bonus held out to them to adopt the rent-charge voluntarily before November, 1836.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that the noble Lord had now opened one of the many inconsistencies in which the Bill would abound, when altered according to the new proposition of the Government. The land-tax and the rent-charge had both been introduced with a view to redemption; and now the principle of redemption, which was the very essence of the Bill, was to be abandoned by the Government. The object of a final settlement by redemption had alone induced him and the other friends of the Church in Ireland, to support the measure. If, however, the redemption clauses were omitted, then, even on the principle advocated by the Government themselves, the rent-charge should not be retained; for the Government had introduced the rent-charge solely with a view to carry the redemption, and putting the payment on the landlords of tithes to which they were not liable by law, was alone justified by the Government themselves on that ground.
 Lord Clements  said, that it would be much easier to collect the amount from the tenants, if it were made compulsory upon the landlords to take the payment upon themselves at once. He, therefore, thought, that for the sake of the landlords them-
 749
 Mr. Sheil  concurred with the noble Lord.
 Mr. Littleton  said, that he feared, that if the rent-charge were forced upon the landlords, their resistance to it would be general; and he never could consent to the abandonment of the Land-tax, or to putting the rent-charge upon the landlords, until the law had been vindicated, and the property secured by the Government collecting the tithe, and obliging the tithe-payer to become amenable to the law, otherwise it would be unreasonable to expect that the landlord could ever collect it from his tenant.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that he very much doubted, that when the House had got through this Bill, so far from settling the tithe question, they would have only passed one of the most complicated and mischievous measures that had ever passed that House; and so far from the question being settled, new elements of strife would be afforded by it. The occupying tenant would soon find out that there was no difference between Land-tax, rent-charge, and tithe-composition, except that the impost proposed to be levied upon him now would be higher than when levied upon him by the landlord, than when it bore the name of tithe.
 Mr. Gillon  seconded the Amendment, as being calculated to confer a boon upon Scotland.
 The Lord Advocate  opposed the Amendment, as being contrary to the feelings of
 750
 Mr. Baring  said, that this was the most extraordinary Bill that had ever been introduced into that House, and as an opportunity had not yet been afforded of discussing the principle of the Bill, he did not think it could be otherwise done than on that occasion. He would, therefore, take the opportunity to make a few remarks on what he considered the object and scope of the measure. He would first call the attention of the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies to the subject, because, though the Bill professed to be brought in by the hon. member for Wolverhampton, and to be supported by the hon. and gallant Member behind him, yet when the House considered the immense extent of the scheme, and how far the Crown lands were involved in it, it became very difficult to know how it could be considered otherwise than a Government measure. His first objection was to the period at which the Bill was brought forward. The Bill was only printed on the 17th of July, and when hon. Members reflected on the difficulty of getting a House together at this advanced period of the Session, for the despatch of the ordinary business of the country, he thought it was too much to
 701 702 l l 703 s s s l l l l l 704
 Mr. Wolryche Whitmore  returned his thanks to the hon. Member for the very fair and candid tone in which he had addressed the House, being convinced that no Member of that House was better acquainted with the subject, or possessed a clearer understanding of its general bearings. The first objection of the hon. Member was, that the promoters of the measure were endeavouring to establish by Act of Parliament what it was in the power of the executive to perform without it. He admitted that it was so, but if the hon. Member would look to what had taken place on the occasion of establishing other colonies, he would find they had frequently been established by Act of Parliament without the intervention of the Crown, therefore they could not be said to be deviating from the constitutional practice on similar occasions. The hon. Member had called the supporters of the measure philosophers, experimentalists, theorists, and a variety of other names, and had also said it was the project of a joint-stock company. He would not say their theory was right—it was yet untried, and might prove erroneous—but he would
 705 s s l 706 l l
 Mr. O'Dwyer  did not rise to oppose the although he should say, that he could not give the principle of it his support. If the Bill, however, went to a Committee, he should assist in amending such of its provisions as appeared to him of an objectionable nature. He rose principally to express his strong dissent from the opinion that the creation of colonies, and the transportation thither of that
 707 708 Parliamentary Reports 709
 Mr. Secretary Rice  said, the hon. Member who spoke last seemed to have forgotten, that the waste lands he had alluded to belonged principally to private individuals. He could, however, inform him, that the Government had not been inattentive to the subject, but that in several parts of Ireland the Government had become proprietors, and had made
 710 primâ facie 711
 Colonel Davies  did not understand upon what ground the House had been referred to the noble Lord in such a case. He thought such an interference and explanation quite irregular, seeing that the noble Lord was only Member for the county.
 Mr. Rotch  rose to submit his Motion for leave to bring in a Bill "to protect from the domineering and often cruel interference of Trades' Unions, the rights and privileges of those of the working classes who are not inclined to join such Associations."
 Mr. Hutt  rose to ask the hon. Gentleman, the Under Secretary of the Home Department, whether he had received any information as to the case of Major Pittman, a Magistrate, who had been found guilty of an offence against the law?
 Lord Ebrington  said, he was Vice-lieutenant of the county also.
 Lord Ebrington  said, that he first heard of the matter on Thursday last, through what purported to be an extract from a letter, giving an account of an assault committed by a Magistrate of the county of Devon; and he then thought it his duty to wait upon the Lord Chancellor, when he found that the noble and learned Lord's attention had been already called to the matter, and received his direction to make further inquiry into it, and to inform him of the result. By the last post he had received an answer to a letter which he had addressed to the Chairman of the Petty Sessions, which stated, that the circumstances as reported in the paper were substantially correct. Perhaps, however, it would be right for him to state, that that Gentleman added, that it was his impression, and that he believed it to be that of his brother Magistrates, that a sufficient example had already been made for the ends of justice by the punishment inflicted by the Court. He had also received a letter from Major Pittman, expressing a hope, that a week's time would be allowed him to enable him to send up a statement, which he trusted would remove the unfavourable impression which
 713
 Mr. Francis Baring  defended the Government in reducing the salaries of those who occupied the superior offices in the public establishments: he was rather surprised at the sympathy which had been manifested on behalf of the petitioners, when no objections had been made to the reductions which had taken place in the wages of the workmen employed in the dock yards and other great Government establishments.
 Mr. Denison  thought, that every labourer was worthy of his hire. These Commissioners had been hired at a certain salary, and that he thought they ought to receive.
 Mr. Baring  hoped the House would not forget the principle laid down by the hon. member for Middlesex, that an application to that House for money was not a constitutional proceeding, and that it was calculated to be productive of mischief, as he conceived the hon. Member must have been rather forgetful of the principle when he made an application to the House for money on a former occasion. He thought the case of the petitioners a very hard one, as a great deal of personal inconvenience and distress must be occasioned to any individuals whose salary of 1,400 l l
 Mr. Baring  alluded to the case of Mr. Marshall.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, by the present clause the King was sunk into the condition of the owner and levyer of the tithes of Ireland, and the duty of collecting them was paid for by the law officer of the Crown, and the expense of the collection fell on the people. He objected to the clause because it placed the King in hostility with the people; and the declaration that tithes should be paid was a declaration of war against the people, for they would have to compel the payment by force of arms. When 60,000 l l 756 757 Ne servi nos numerare possent. s 758
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he had been mistaken by the right hon. Baronet upon one or two points. He had not pressed his plan hastily upon Government—on the contrary, he had proposed it on the 2nd or 3rd of May, and some observations had been made upon it in another place. But to come to the point under discussion, let them simplify the machinery of the present Bill, by the adoption of his amendment. Instead of extending the operation of the Bill to 1839, let Ministers come fairly forward and meet him and those who thought with him, and the whole measure would pass the House in the two next sittings. It had been urged, that the property of Ireland was for the most part Protestant property, and the Protestant landlords or their representatives ought to be consulted upon a measure of this kind. So they ought. But why were they not there to be consulted? Why were they not present to deliberate upon a measure calculated to afford relief both to themselves and their tenantry? He wished not to say a word between Ca-
 762
 Mr. Walker  hoped the Government would adopt the suggestion of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, and by doing so give peace to Ireland.
 Mr. Secretary Rice  considered the proposition as one of great importance, and one, too, in furtherance of the principle of the Bill. Indeed in all measures since
 760
 Mr. O'Connell  wished to impress on the House, that the object of his Amendment was, that if the landlords would not take the boon that was offered, the tenants should have the advantage of it.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that whatever course the noble Lord proposed, he thought it the duty of every hon. Member in that House to give all the aid in his power to the Bill.
 MR. O'CONNELL.]   Colonel  Perceval
 Mr. O'Connell  said, it was impossible for the House to go on with the other clauses that night.
 Captain Gordon  said, that if the noble Lord did not take off the drawback on malt, after this reduction of duty had been made on Irish whiskey, the consequence would be ruinous to the distillers of Scotland.
 Mr. Ruthven  said, that if the large Irish distilleries were well managed by proper men, and by good Excise-laws, it would contribute more to suppress illicit distilleries than any oppressive enactment.
 Colonel O'Grady  said, that he should support the Amendment, for he had some reason to know that it would be acceptable to the landlords of Ireland. This very subject had been made a matter of consideration and discussion with the Grand Jury of the county of Limerick in his presence, and they unanimously concurred in taking upon themselves the payment of the tithes. He could, he believed, speak with equal confidence of the concurrence of the Grand Juries of the counties of Cork and Kerry; and as the members of all those Grand Juries were necessarily landed proprietors, this was, he thought, a pretty good criterion of the feelings of the landlords of Ireland on the point of compulsory power.
 Mr. O'Grady  concurred with the noble Lord, but thought the landlords of Ireland knew their own interest too well to dissent from the plan proposed.
Sir  Edmund Hayes 759
 Mr. Lefroy  said, that if he concurred with the noble Lord, the member for the county of Leitrim, (Lord Clements), that the great body of the landlords of Ireland were satisfied with the proposal, and were ready to accede to it, he should concur in its adoption—and this would supersede the necessity of arguing the reasonableness of the proposition. But as a great difference of opinion existed amongst the Irish landlords who were present, it was not too much to infer that those who were absent differed in the same proposition—he was, therefore, driven to argue the reasonableness of the measure itself, and this he was also disposed to think was the wisest ground upon which to legislate. Now, as to the reasonableness of imposing this tax, in the first instance, upon the landlords, he would beg to ask, what gave rise to the necessity of this Bill? What but the difficulty that existed of collecting the tithes for the last two or three years? The tithes during that period were actually in abeyance. The question then was, as to the reasonableness of making the landlords amenable for the payment, whilst the right of collecting might be said to be actually in abeyance, by the suspension and desuetude of payment. He thought it, therefore, most unreasonable to throw this burthen upon the landlords, until a levy of tithe had been made and the law vindicated. If a person were about to purchase an estate, and he was told that the tenants owed a large arrear—that they had not in fact paid any rent for two or three years—that they resisted the payment—would not that materially affect the value of the purchase, and even the desirableness of the purchase itself? The question was not whether the landlords were to be left the option of finally taking upon themselves the payment, but whether they were to be compelled forthwith to take the payment on themselves. Another ground he would beg to urge to show the
 769 bonus 770
 Mr. Anthony Lefroy  said, that though the hon. and learned member for Tipperary had amused the House by a supposed dialogue between an Irish landlord and his tenant, yet he had said nothing to change his opinion, which entirely coincided with what had fallen from his right hon. friend the member for Tamworth, that landlords should, at least, have an opportunity to consider the effects of the proposed measure before it was forced upon them; he, therefore, felt much satisfaction that the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had in so decided a way expressed his determination to adhere to the proposal of leaving the redemption optional till the year 1839. With respect to the speech of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, he considered that the hon. and learned Member either was now obliged to admit that which he had so often denied—that the right to tithe was as just as to any other property, and, therefore, that he wished to place its whole burthen upon the landlord; or else, whilst he professed to protect that property, he was really endeavouring, to annihilate it, by proposing that the landlords should become subject to it—when, under present circumstances, they did not possess the means of reimbursing themselves—and, therefore, it must be lost to the Church; for it could not be maintained, that the landlord was to be at the entire loss, even in cases where leases were made, subjecting to the tithe. He must protest against the proposition of the hon. and learned Member, that the landlord should have such a responsibility fixed upon him without time for consideration, and this at a moment when the principal Irish landed proprietors were absent—at all events, till the Government had proved that the laws would be vindicated in the recovery of lithe property. He did not mean by calling out the military, but by such consti-
 766
 Mr. Lefroy  said, that, notwithstanding all he had heard, he was still ignorant of the views of Government on the subject of appropriation. He was now told, that the principle was fixed upon. If the principle was, that the Church property of Ireland was to be applied to other purposes than those of the Church, it would be no longer in his power to support this Bill. Indeed, the rejection of the redemption clause would be sufficient to induce him to reject the Bill altogether, and confirm him in his opposition to it more and more. An objection of the noble Lord to the plan first proposed was the quantity of land that might in consequence be thrown into mortmain. The objection was very plausible, and if there was no answer to it, would justify the apprehensions of the noble Lord. He would, however, beg to call to the recollection of the House, that by the Church Temporalities Bill, more land would be brought out of mortmain than would be thrown into it by the measure first proposed. He could not admit that the security of a rent-charge was equal to that of redemption. The great object of redemption was to do away completely with all those recollections connected with the nature and the application of tithe in Ireland. A rent-charge would not have this effect. It would be liable to the very same objections as tithe itself. It would still be levied as a charge for the support of the Protestant clergy, and occasion not fewer difficulties and objections than it did under the name of tithe. An investment in land would not be liable to the same objections. He ventured to pledge himself, that in three years there would arise the same conspiracy against the rent-
 774
 Mr. Callaghan  said, that if Government had given the same encouragement to the landlords of Ireland that had been given to the Scotch landlords, the Irish would have conducted themselves in the same way.
 Mr. Callaghan  said, he would make nothing compulsory either upon landlords or tenants. He was sure that the people of Ireland would never pay tithes as tithes. He believed the Irish landlords were prepared for this change, and he thought that delay upon this question would be injurious and unjust. He was in favour of making the landlords pay a portion of the tithes, and he believed the landlords would pay a fair share in the commutation of tithes. He had tried a public meeting upon the adjustment of tithes, and had failed; so had the hon. member for Tip-
 768
 Mr. Littleton  repeated the reasons he had so often before advanced in favour of fixing the period for the establishment of a compulsory rent-charge at six years. He had no apprehension that the Government would be unable to levy the tax. The proposition of the hon. and learned Member involved too important a principle to be discussed without formal notice, and therefore he suggested that it should be withdrawn for the present, and on a formal notice discussed on bringing up the Report. His own impression was unfavourable; but if it should appear that making the rent-charge compulsory at once would be more satisfactory to the Irish landlords, he, on the part of the Government, saw no objection to such a course. At the same time he could not pledge the Government.
 Mr. Littleton  denied the assertion made by his right hon. friend, the member for Tamworth (Sir Robert Peel), and called upon him to show any case in which assistance was called for in aid of the collection of tithes, where it was refused by the Government; whenever it was found that tithes could not be collected without force, force was supplied, but in no other instances.
 Mr. Shaw  could not assent to the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, that the Government had supported tithe property as they ought. However, that question he would not argue then. No person could be more friendly to the principle of the burthen of the tithe being transferred from the occupying tenant to the landlord than he was, and he had supported all the measures for that purpose which had been introduced by the late right hon. Secretary for the Colonies. All he maintained was, that, until the authority of the law was restored by the collection of tithes, the necessity of which had been so strongly stated by the right hon. the Secretary for Ireland, the landlords could not consent to take the payment upon themselves. Besides, the landlords of Ireland were not generally in those very affluent circumstances, to be able to meet an unexpected payment of this nature on the first of November next. It would fall, too, most heavily upon the fair and the just landlord, who did not place upon his tenant a nominal rent higher than he was able to pay. The redemption, which was now to be abandoned, would have been the inducement to the landlords to take upon themselves the payment of the tithe. He was very desirous scrupulously to
 763
 Mr. Shaw  said that, after the sort of opposition which the hon. and learned member for Dublin had received from Ministers, the noble Lord was entitled to the support of the hon. and learned Gentleman.
 Mr. Shaw  believed, that the noble Lord had not wished that the clause should be carried in the way he had proposed it. He could only say, that the clause had been opposed by hon. Gentlemen who
 773
 Mr. Sinclair  thought that there was very little prospect of seeing his Majesty's Ministers experience a second defeat on the same night, and he, therefore, agreed with the right hon. Member, that it was unnecessary to press this question to a division. One result of the change effected a short time ago in the Irish Tithe Bill would be, as he hoped, to shorten the duration of the Session, and prevent the Table from being covered with petitions from Scotland against the advantage about to be given to Ireland over that country. The Irish Members had at least two advantages over the Scotch: in the first place, their numerical superiority, and then their greater skill in wielding the weapons of agitation. The latter was the chief source by which they accomplished many objects, and certainly the people of Scotland, if they wished to avert an evil, or secure an advantage, should take a leaf out of Lord Anglesey's book, and agitate, agitate, agitate. He should now content himself with protesting against the partial and unjust measure which was under consideration.
 Mr. Goulburn  considered it highly objectionable, that any individuals holding office under the Crown should have petitioned the Legislature on the subject of the salary paid to them, and almost induced him to recommend that the petition should be withdrawn. He admitted, his concurrence with the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) on the principles of reduction with reference to the salaries of public officers; but while he advocated the right of the Government to deal with such offices as those held by the petitioners, he was bound in justice to them to declare, that all reductions he contemplated were to be of a prospective nature. He, therefore, while he admitted that the case had been irregularly brought before the House, thought the case of the petitioners deserved the consideration of the Government,
 Mr. Abercromby  said, that whatever had been done, had had for its object to convince the Irish landlord of the interest which he had in supporting this measure, and to obtain his approval of it; but there was another and very material party to consult—namely, the Irish people. It was clear to all, that the value of this tithe property had been shaken in Ireland by recent events; and the object of the proposed law was to restore that property to its fair and just value—and that, too, within the shortest possible period of time, and with the smallest expense. He was one who, to use a word in common parlance, was most anxious to "vindicate the law;" but, whilst he entertained this feeling, he thought something ought to be done to conciliate the people. What was proposed by the present Bill? Why, that
 767 O'Connell
 Mr. Abercromby  thought no answer had yet been given to the argument—the fact, he would call it—that if by this measure forty per cent was to be divided as a saving between landlord and tenant (and it was a mistake to suppose that the tenant would not participate in the benefit), any opposition would be offered by either the one party or the other.
 Mr. Ewing  said, that the noble Lord would not have made this reduction if he was aware of the demoralization it would produce among the lower classes in Ireland.
 Mr. Hume  had nothing further to do with the case than that being a member of the Committee he concurred in the propriety of the grant. That case, however, was evidently different from the present. Mr. Marshall was not a servant of the public.
 Mr. Hume  said, the hon. Member frequently indulged in insinuations against him, but if he had any direct charge to make against him, why did he not openly state it?
 Mr. Hume  could not conceive anything more mischievous than allowing the interposition of the House in questions of this sort. The simple case the House was called upon to decide was, whether the Legislature or the Executive should decide what salaries were to be given to the servants of the public. He had opposed the opinions entertained by Mr. Canning on this subject, and contended the House did not possess the right to interfere. The principle he maintained was, that the same spirit of reduction should be applied to the higher class of public servants that was exercised with reference to the lower. He could see no reason why a distinction should be made between the salaries of those who received 5 s l l
 Mr. Perrin  was of opinion that the measure ought to be made compulsory upon the landlords, when it gave to them the power of levying 100 l l
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  regretted the
 777
 Mr. Ridley Colborne  considered this one of those cases which might very fairly be taken into consideration, though he certainly disapproved of making the House the arbiter in matters of this sort. The increased duties of these Commissioners gave them a claim to the full salary.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  was not aware of the informality of presenting a petition of that nature to the House; but having discharged his duty in bringing the subject under the notice of the Government, he should beg leave to withdraw the petition, and leave the matter to the serious attention of the noble Lord and the Government.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  presented a Petition From certain Commissioners of Customs, complaining of a reduction of 200 l 751 l l
 Mr. Sheil  said, it was not likely that they should, at the present late period of the Session get the opinions of the Irish landlords generally on this question; but there yet remained a sufficient number from the north, south, east and west, to give a pretty accurate opinion as to what the feelings of Irish landlords were upon the subject. The whole of the Bill was founded on the assumption of the right to enforce the tithe against the tenant. They proceeded against the tenant first; and if they failed, then the landlord was rendered liable. That was the fairer course. But here it was proposed to make the landlord a collector of tithes—a voluntary collector. Was not that the case? Was not that the overt argument of those who supported this Bill? But let the Committee look for a moment to the other side of the question; let them consider what the case would be if the tenant, when asked by his landlord for tithe, turned and said, "I owe you no tithe; you have no right to claim any from me; you have voluntarily placed yourself in the situation of a collector of tithes, and you must take the consequences. If the Government had passed a law to compel you to do this, I would at once feel that your demand was right, and I would try and pay it; but as you have taken the thing upon yourself, I will not pay you." Now would not this argument be at once done away with if the Bill made it compulsory on the landlord to collect the tithe? But how could such a measure be passed at so late a period of the Session? The only remedy proposed was contained in the Amendment of his hon. and learned friend, the member for Dublin, in which he fully and most cordially concurred. The question was, ought the land to pay or not? If it ought to pay now, nothing could interfere with the right of payment five years hence. The
 765
 Mr. Sheil  certainly had been misunderstood by the right hon. Gentleman. The observation he had made in support of a compulsory measure was—that otherwise the tenants would turn round upon the landlord, and say, "this is merely a voluntary act of your's, by which we are not bound, and you must take the consequences."
 Dr. Lushington  said, that to save Ireland from a civil war he should support the Amendment of the hon. and learned member for Dublin. With respect to vindicating the law he had his doubts. For three years the law had been suspended, and it was not possible, while the
 771
 Mr. O'Reilly  could not entirely concur with the proposition of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, because it called upon the landlords to burthen their estates, without knowing or feeling that their doing so would conduce to the peace or tranquillity of Ireland. The only way or giving peace to Ireland would be to relieve the rack-rent tenants from all connection with tithe, and without this it would be vain to think of peace in that country.
 Sir Charles Burrell  thought a great deal too much tenderness was exhibited on this occasion towards the Commissioners of Customs, and when the House considered the difference in the value of money, it would be evident that these persons were better off with a salary of 1,200 l l
 Sir George Murray  said, there was a departure here from the principle of equality of taxation on which the noble Lord professed to act. The noble Lord (Lord Althorp) seemed to think, that the quantity of spirits distilled was always the same, and that any difference in the amount of duty paid arose from illicit distillation. He did not know what means the noble Lord had to ascertain this. The injury done to Scotland by the change proposed by the noble Lord would not be confined to the highlands, but extend over all Scotland; and he did not think it fair to that part of the empire. The noble Lord assigned as a reason, that he could not risk more than 200,000 l
 Sir Henry Willoughby  supported the petition, contending that, upon principles of true economy, these reductions ought not to have taken place.
 Sir Robert Inglis  concurred in the opinion of the noble Lord, that it was very improper to present a petition of that description to the House; it should certainly have been presented to the head of the department. He differed from the noble Lord, in thinking it politic to put up the salaries of public officers to the lowest tender, and hoped, that such republican doctrines would be scouted by the House. As these individuals had accepted office, and had married and made their other domestic arrangements, on the faith of receiving a salary of 1,400 l
 Sir Robert Peel  quite agreed, that there could not be a subject better worthy of consideration than that of the means by which they could best charge the landlord in Ireland with the payment of the tithes to the release of the occupying tenant. At the same time he felt great objection to their attempting to decide upon such an important question at that extremely late period of the Session. It could not be denied, that the good will of the landlords was most essential, and, unless the Legislature had their good will, it would be impossible to make the alteration a benefit. For the change to be efficacious too, the provision must be compulsory; and then came the question how could they with justice or with propriety impose such a responsibility on the landlord, without giving him any notice of their intentions. He did not believe that there were at present a sufficient number of Irish landlords in the metropolis to form a fair representation of the general feeling of that body. He threw out these remarks merely as suggestions. But if the proposition were resolved upon, something must, in justice to the landlords, be done by Government with reference to the arrears. There had now been two years of intermission in the collection of tithes in Ireland; and, however the question might now be shrunk from, the time must come when the law must be vindicated. The proposition now with respect to arrears was that two-fifths should be cancelled. But would the persons owing 1 s d d s 761 d
 Lord Althorp  said, the right hon. member for Tamworth was mistaken if he supposed that Ministers were not anxious to extend the most immediate and effective relief to the tenantry of Ireland; but, in looking to and considering that part of the case, they felt that they had no right—that, indeed, they would not be justified in throwing at once a burthen upon the Irish landlords, which they might be found unwilling to bear. He thought, after the opinions expressed by the hon. member for Leitrim, the hon. and learned member for Dublin, and other hon. Gentlemen, who did not generally act with Government, that this was a decided point. He would say, in answer to the observations of the hon. and learned member for Dublin this evening, that the question of making the measure at once compulsory upon the landlords had been seriously considered by himself and his colleagues, and the result of their consideration was, that they had no right to impose at once such a compulsory measure upon them, but that it would be better to give them, up to a certain period, an optional chance of collecting tithes, three-fifths of the amount of which they would only be responsible for. However desirable the other course might be, it would be the grossest injustice to put it in force against the Irish landlords—an injustice of which they would have a right to complain, and the more so because such a measure, instead of producing good, would do general injury to that country. Before this burthen could be laid upon the landlord, or, in other words, before he could fairly see his own interest in co-operating in support of the measure, it was necessary to let him know that the property was protected by law, and could be collected, and this once done, it would
 764
 Lord Althorp  said, that, after what had just taken place, he thought the best course would be to postpone all the clauses which referred to this part of the subject until the close of the proceedings upon the Bill. With respect to this question, he would say, that it was a hard measure on the landlords, at least the great majority of the Irish landlords in that House thought it so. The clause would have carried more speedily into execution the principles of the Bill.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the object of the Government was to hold out to the landlords a temptation to take upon themselves the payment of tithes.
 Lord Althorp  had not wished the Irish Members to vote against their opinions, but, at the same time, he denied that he had wished the clause to be lost. He thought that the effect would be injurious in carrying the Bill into execution.
 Lord Althorp : Does the hon. and learned Member mean to say, that I was not sincere in the opposition which I gave to the Amendment? I certainly never wished, nor pressed on this occasion, for the votes of those Gentlemen who usually support the Government. The hon. and learned Gentleman seems to forget the changes lately made in the constitution of this House by the Reform Bill. I readily admit that, on some occasions, when a great principle was involved, and expected that the decision of the House would be against me, I have, in order to assist in carrying out the principle, expressed a wish for the votes of Members. But, in a question as to a clause in an Act of Parliament, the effect of which would only be to carry out the principle of the Bill more rapidly, I should be ashamed of myself, if I followed a course such as that which would only be justifiable when the principle of the Bill itself was involved.
 Lord Althorp  considered it a most extraordinary and unusual proceeding that persons holding situations under the Crown in a Board of this nature should have thought fit to call upon that House for an increase of their salaries. It was necessary he should defend himself against the charge of unfairness the petitioners had made against the Government. He had effected these reductions because he felt it to be his duty as a Minister of the Crown to redeem the pledge which had been given to the country by him and his colleagues on their accepting office that they would endeavour, as far as would be consistent with the welfare of the public service, to make every possible reduction in the public expenditure. Upon his accepting office he found the salaries of the principal officers of Customs and Excise to be 1,400 l l 752 l
 Lord Althorp  said, this alteration was proposed partly on the ground, that it would be a benefit to Scotland. In Ireland the duty was higher than in Scotland; and he did not think, therefore, it would be justifiable to adopt the course proposed by the gallant officer. A reduction of duty in Ireland to the amount of 1 s 775
 Lord Clements  would vindicate the majesty of the laws if he knew how to do it. He considered this boon of great value to Ireland, and as such he would support this Bill in its integrity.
 Lord Clements  thought nothing could be worse than the footing upon which the right hon. Secretary for Ireland was ready to put the question. It was the good of the whole of the people, and not of the landlords only, that they had to consult. The question had been long before the House, and might at once be dealt with. He also thought the right hon. Secretary was wrong in his expectation that the Government would be able to collect the land-tax. He was decidedly favourable to charging the landlord at once.
 Lord Ebrington  thought, that a salary of 1,200 l 753
 Major Beauclerk  rose for the purpose of moving, that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. He did not oppose the Bill merely because his constituents would be affected by it, but because it went to deprive the poorer classes of society of that healthful recreation and innocent enjoyment which were obtained by having free access to unenclosed common lands. It was not only the people who possessed the power to turn their cows, or their pigs, or horses, on commons to obtain pasture, who were injured by these enclosures, but the whole population; for they circumscribed the limits in which the people could now enjoy themselves by perambulating the open commons without trespass. It was said, that the neighbourhoods of large towns would not be affected by this Bill; but he should always oppose the principle of making partial laws, of one law for large towns, and another law for the country. Both in a moral and political point of view, it was of the greatest importance that the poorer classes should have every inducement to healthful recreation, inasmuch as the more the House conduced to their amusements, the more likely they would be to keep out of the public-house.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  seconded the
 788
 Mr. Hawes  said, he had presented a petition from the inhabitants residing on and about the commons of Wandsworth, Battersea, Wimbledon, and other places, against this Bill; but the hon. member for the University having consented to the introduction of a clause he was about to propose, by which a circuit of ten miles round the metropolis and other towns containing a specified number of inhabitants would be exempted from the operation of the measure, he should not oppose the Bill going into Committee.
 Mr. Tooke  protested against the rights of the people of England being compromised because the constituents of the hon. member for Lambeth were satisfied. The question involved in the Bill, as to whether common lands would be affected, was certainly one of very great nicety, and, to say the least of it, trenched very much on common rights. He should, however, object to the Bill, on the sole ground of its introduction at so late a period of the Session.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  objected not only to the period at which the Bill was introduced, but to the principle it involved. Within his Parliamentary recollection two Bills had been introduced for the purpose of enclosing Hampstead-heath and Wandsworth-common; and the strong opposition which was raised against them showed it was necessary to make every
 789
 Sir Henry Willoughby  had nothing to do with the Bill now before the House, but he begged to observe, with regard to what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman who spoke last, that he had entirely mistaken the object of the Bill: he had confounded common fields with Commons, therefore his objections to the Bill entirely failed, the Bill only relating to small tracts of land held by individuals in common fields. It applied to no common or common right in England, but those great tracts of land held in small strips in different parts of the country; and the object of the Bill was, to give the proprietors the power to enclose them without the expense of a special application to Parliament. This, he apprehended, had nothing whatever to do with commons or common rights.
 Mr. Estcourt  wished to say a few words in explanation of the Bill, which had been totally misunderstood. If he thought it would have the effect pronounced by the right hon. member for Kirkcudbright, of circumscribing the healthful recreation of the poor, or of trenching in any degree upon common rights, he would consent immediately to abandon it. The real object of the Bill was, to confer the benefit of enclosing common fields in agriculture, without subjecting the owners of them, in every case, to the immense expense of passing a Bill in Parliament. So far from being desirous to affect the commons resorted to by the public for the purposes of recreation, he had himself opposed the attempts that had been made, at various times, to inclose Hampstead-heath. The Bill would tend very much to the improvement of agriculture; for it was in vain to suppose, that small tracts of land of two or three acres would ever be im-
 790
 Mr. Blamire  supported the Bill, being of opinion that the proviso which had been introduced by the hon. member for the University of Oxford would obviate every objection to the Bill. There were, however, many difficulties to the details of the measure, such as where there was a right of severalty to the tillage, and where there was a periodical right to the herbage on common fields. He did not think such rights should be taken away without due consideration.
 Mr. Childers  said, that every objection which had been taken to the Bill might be discussed in Committee. Representing an agricultural district where there were large tracts of land which would derive great benefit from the measure, he gave it his cordial support. There were many small tracts of lands, such as those described, and many labourers residing on them without the means of employment, who would be afforded the opportunity to exercise their labour if the lands were enclosed.
 Mr. Potter  said, though the clause of the hon. member for Lambeth confined the operation of the Bill to a limit ten miles distant from large towns, it must not be forgotten that there were many large towns in the north of England, containing a population of 10,000 or 12,000, that a few years ago did not contain as many as 1,000. If, therefore, this Bill were to
 791
 Mr. Fysche Palmer  considered it a great omission in the Bill that no drainage clause had been introduced. He would take, for example, the large fields between Reading and Abingdon, and ask how it would be possible to get rid of the water which lay upon them at certain seasons of the year, unless a drainage clause was passed, by which it might be carried into the river?
 Mr. Estcourt  said, he had no objection to the introduction of any proviso to remedy the difficulty, morely as a cautionary clause.
 Colonel Williams  considered no principle more dangerous than that of giving power to great landowners to enclose lands at the expense of the poor. He considered the labour of the poor man as much his property as the lands of any wealthy proprietor, and that it was the duty of that House not to suffer any measure to pass that would have the effect of discouraging that labour.
 Lord Sandon  said, the object of the Bill was to afford the means of employment to the poor by the enclosure of lands. The Bill did not interfere with the rights of the poor, nor was it a question of common, but of common fields belonging to different proprietors, and distinct from each other.
 Mr. Hume  said, a great difference of opinion seemed to prevail with reference to the real objects of the Bill; but, after the recommendation of the Committee of last year relative to public walks, he thought the House should be very cautious how it gave its sanction to any general Enclosure Bill that might tend to interrupt its operation. No person could pass Hampstead, Camberwell, or Wandsworth, on a Sunday, and see the vast numbers of persons who enjoyed innocent recreations on the commons, without admitting the great importance of a measure to prevent
 792
 Mr. John Smith  did not agree with the noble Lord, that these enclosures afforded the means of employment to agricultural labourers, as he knew many cases in which it had produced a contrary effect.
 Mr. Tower  having been instrumental in the passing of several Enclosure Bills, and having witnessed the beneficial effects of them in the agricultural districts, bore his testimony to the great utility of a measure of this description. By the increase of enclosures the employment of the poor was increased, and consequently their comforts. The Bill was not a perfect measure, but its faults might be remedied in Committee.
 Mr. Aglionby  considered that the Bill applied only to those commons where the right was possessed in severalty, and as it did not sanction the enclosure of commons or tend to circumscribe the rights of the poor, he should give it his support.
 Major Beauclerk  said, what had taken place that morning satisfied his mind that there was no desire to infringe on the enjoyments of the poor, and wishing not to throw impediments in the way of the improvement of agriculture, he would not press his Amendment.
 Mr. Wilks  protested against going into Committee at all. Notwithstanding what lawyers might have said of the Bill, he contended that it contained many most objectionable provisions, and it was so worded as to render it very difficult to make any amelioration in the Committee. Though the Bill was ostensibly for the purpose of enclosing common fields, there were many periodical rights, besides the right of way, that would be entirely destroyed by it. He objected to the introduction of so important a Bill at this period of the Session, and would vote against its proceeding any further.
 Colonel Davies  availed himself of that moment, in preference to waiting till a later hour, to move a Resolution as an Amendment on the right hon. Gentleman's Motion to the following effect:—"That it is inexpedient that any charge should be made on the Consolidated Fund, in order to carry into effect any of the proposed enactments of a Bill now in progress in this House, intitled 'A Bill to abolish composition for tithes in Ireland, and to substitute in lieu thereof a land tax, and to provide for the redemption of the same." The hon. Member maintained that, whilst the Bill contained nothing calculated to tranquillise Ireland, it would have the effect of imposing a charge of from 1,200,000 l. l.
 Lord Althorp  said, it was not his intention to enter into anything like a criticism upon the motives which induced the hon. and gallant Member to propose such an Amendment on the question of going into the Committee. But he might be permitted to observe, that the principle of the Resolution had been already debated. He had no hesitation in saying that, if the Amendment were to be adopted by the House, it would be impossible to carry the present Bill, as the proposed advance was necessary, in order to put the machine in motion. He
 796 l. l. 797
 Mr. Gillon  thought, that the best mode of tranquillising Ireland would be by altering altogether the appropriation of tithes collected under the existing system. The Church property of Ireland belonged, he contended, to the State, and ought to be converted to the purposes of the State, one of which purposes, undoubtedly, would be a due support of an efficient clergy for that establishment. But here was a different measure, a measure which added to the burthens of the country. How could they hope to alleviate the distresses of the people, if, while they were taking off taxation lightly on the one hand, they were laying it on heavily with the other? He was not opposed to the interests of Ireland; on the contrary, he had voted in favour of every measure calculated to give relief to that country. But still he felt that a line must be drawn somewhere, and he would vote to draw it here. He did not see why the people of England and Scotland were to be additionally burthened to support the clergy of Ireland; and, therefore, he gave his most cordial support to the Amendment.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that if the hon. and gallant Gentleman divided the House, he should have his vote—first, because, as the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) had said, the vote of money in question was in support of a Bill for which, although he (Mr. Shaw) had voted for it in its original shape, he was then bound in consistency to oppose it—as its whole essence and character had been changed, and its entire principle abandoned, by the alterations made in it since it had gone into Committee; and so far from being calculated, as the noble Lord anticipated, to tranquillize Ireland, it would, he conscientiously believed, have the very opposite tendency—operating as a bounty upon crime—as the highest premium on violence and outrage—encouraging the political agitators and disturbers of the public peace to hold out the example of successful resistance to one species of property, whenever they might desire to assail another—ay, and perhaps before the next Session of Parliament. The hon. and learned member for Dublin, in subserviency to whose wishes the Government had abandoned their own measure, would turn their timid and temporising conduct in that respect as an argument against the payment of taxes to them-
 798 l. l. ["No, no,"] l. 799 l. l.
 Mr. Sheil : The hon. and learned Gentleman says, that he shall support the Amendment of the gallant Colonel; but does he know what that Amendment is? It is proposed to grant the Church the compensation of twenty per cent out of the Consolidated Fund. The Motion of the gallant Colonel is to stop the advance from the Consolidated Fund, although he approves of the deduction of forty per cent from the tithes. The hon. and gallant Colonel asked, why the people of England and Scotland should make this contribution; but I will ask him, whether the nation pays nothing to ministers of the Church of Scotland?—whether 3,000,000 l. 800 l. l.
 Mr. Richards  said, that after the speech which had just been made by the hon. and learned member for Tipperary, it became the duty of every honest man to speak out. For now they were told that, no matter what measures they might enact in favour of Ireland, her claims would become louder and louder next year. He felt more in sorrow than in anger at hearing such a statement made by the hon. and learned member for Tipperary. He regretted to hear that hon. and learned Member declare, as he did, that they must reduce the number of Bishops in that country. If the Irish Church was looked upon by the hon. Member as a State Church, the question was different; but if it was looked upon as a religious
 801
 Mr. Lefroy  said, that it appeared to him, that there was no great difference between the two hon. Gentlemen, (Mr. Shell and Mr. Richards), or, if any, it amounted to this, that one wished to destroy the Church at once, and the other was satisfied to effect a like object by instalments. He could not avoid stating, how greatly he felt obliged to the hon. and learned Gentleman, the member for Tipperary, for the candid statement which he had just made; and he would put it to the conscience of English Members, whether they would vote for this measure, which was introduced under the pretence of tranquillising Ireland, after hearing the declaration of the hon. and learned Member. The hon. and learned Member, however, had only told the House that which was well known out of doors, but had on other occasions been avowed by him and his colleagues within the walls of that House, that no concession, short of the total destruction of the Protestant establishment in Ireland, would satisfy them. The concession now made, would only have the effect of bringing a more clamorous call upon the House, for the purpose of extinguishing the remainder.
 802 l. l. l., l. l. l., 803
 Mr. Ward  observed, that the question was, whether the House was prepared to unsay all it had said, and undo what it had done, for the last six months? By the Motion of the hon. member for Middlesex the principle had been decided, and the House had confirmed it by the vote of last night. He opposed the Motion of the hon. member for Worcester, because it was bad in principle and worse in practice. It was bad both as a measure of expediency and as a measure of economy, and it would protract the present unsettled state of Ireland.
 Mr. Finch  felt strongly inclined to support the amendment moved by the gallant. Colonel for two reasons—first, he thought that it was hardly fair that the people of England should be called upon to make a payment of 130,000 l. 805 l. 806 807 [Laughter.] 808 809 810
 Mr. Lynch  observed, that the topics adverted to by the hon. Member were not in question before the House. That concerned Ireland, not Italy and the Pope. The only question was, whether the Consolidated Fund should be charged to make up the deficiency from deducting forty per cent from the tithes. With regard to the interest of Protestantism in this question, he (Mr. Lynch), if he had been a Protestant, should have attributed the non-expansion of the Protestant religion to the Irish Established Church. He was sorry that the appropriation principle was not adopted in the Bill; but a great point had been gained by removing the tithe oppression from the occupiers; and if the object of the Bill could not be attained, except by charging the Consolidated Fund, he was ready to go that length. He, therefore, should oppose the Amendment.
 Mr. Christmas  observed, that he was much in doubt, whether the tranquillity which was expected would follow on this measure. It would put the landlord in collision with his tenant on a point which ought to be the subject of amicable arrangement between them. The hon. member for Dublin, whom he did not see in his place, he supposed was satisfied with the present Bill. He did not like to speak harshly of the Government; they had been charged with thimble-rigging, and he could not but think that they had been guilty of a cross. To be sure he did not know it; but there had been so much done behind the scenes lately. The hon. and learned member for Dublin, he repeated, could, when it suited his pur-
 811
 Mr. Hawes  thought the Bill required so many alterations, that it would be impossible to amend it.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that the complicated nature of the measure, and the lateness of the Session, would prevent the Bill passing this Session.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  opposed the Motion, on account of the lateness of the hour, and also on account of the late period of the Session.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  wished to know what part his Majesty's Government meant to take upon this clause.
 Lord Althorp  said, that as the highest salary paid to any of his Majesty's Ministers did not exceed 5,000 l., l.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  thought, that the
 812
 Mr. Hughes Hughes : Was the Committee aware that, in 1832, the House had abolished the fees paid to the Speaker, and raised his salary in consequence to 6,000 l.
 The Lord Advocate  asserted, that the salary had not been altered since 1790.
 Mr. Whitmore  concurred with the hon. Member in thinking it of the utmost importance that vessels containing so many human lives should be proved sea-worthy before they were suffered to leave the country, and he should take the opportunity of drawing the most serious attention to the subject. He wished also to observe, that the colony possessed the advantages of two of the finest harbours in the world, one of them being of a capacity to hold the whole navy of the country.
 Mr. Whitmore  said, 160 settlers were anxious immediately to proceed to the colony with ample means, and as no labourers were to be sent out until there was a demand for labour, he thought, having no passage-money to pay, they would, with the assistance of those who were settled there, be adequately provided for.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood : What was it in 1790?
 The Lord Advocate : The same as at present.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood : Then don't reduce it.
 Mr. Edward Ruthven  did not think the salary of 6,000 l.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  said, that, as the Speaker had to perform more labour now than he had to perform in 1790, he did not see any reason why he should receive less hire.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  was of opinion, that his constituents would feel no objection to paying the Speaker 6,000 l.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  reminded the House, that there were officers of the Crown receiving larger salaries than 5,000 l. l. l. 813 l. l.
 Mr. O'Reilly  would never support that economy which, by reducing the salaries of high and important offices below their due remuneration, should place the offices themselves in the hands of men of large fortune only. He thought that 6,000 l.
 Colonel Williams  was understood to support the reduction. The Speaker was certainly put to great expense by the number of dinners which custom compelled him to give in the course of a Session. Now, he had never been a friend to eating and drinking at the public expense, either in select vestries or corporations; and he thought that if the Speaker were to be exonerated from giving these dinners, 5,000 l.
 Mr. George F. Young  said, that as a comparison had been drawn between the amount of salary paid to the Speaker and that paid to the Judges, he would remind the Committee, that the Judges were employed all the year, and the Speaker only during a part of it; besides, the Speaker had the advantage of an official residence.
 Mr. Barnard  rose to express an earnest hope, that new ships would be selected for the purpose of conveying the emigrants to Australia, and that proper officers would be appointed to survey them before they were suffered to leave our ports. He was desirous to draw the particular attention of the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies, whom he regretted he did not see in his place on the present occasion, to this most important subject, conceiving that of all cargoes, a cargo of human life was the most valuable, and that too great care could not be taken that they were embark-
 794
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  suggested, that it was of the very greatest importance to make some provision for the emigrants, in the event of a possibility of the failure of the scheme. No one would regret the failure of the scheme more than he should;
 795
 Sir Henry Willoughby  was desirous of knowing in what situation the emigrants would be placed if they fell sick, or in case the scheme should fail.
 Colonel Williams  said, that he had great doubts whether the prerogative of the Crown to direct a dismissal in such a case as the present was justifiable. He thought it was not.
 Mr. O'Connell  begged to call the attention of the House to one very material feature in which the present Bill appeared to be deficient. As it now stood, the Bill only affected the tithe-payers in agricultural districts; but it was very well known, that in the towns there was an impost, called "Ministers' money," which would be left untouched. He did not wish to take up the time of the House this Session by pressing this matter upon their attention, but he hoped that next Session some measure would be adopted for putting the town and country districts on the same footing.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  denied, that there were any grounds for alarm respecting the proceedings of the Bank. In answer to the hon. Gentleman who spoke last, he stated, that the House of Commons was the first Board of Control which could be established for the superintendence of the Bank.
 Mr. Warburton  thought, that the Bill did not sufficiently consult the interests of the consumers of beer, or of those people who had invested capital under the old law. He hoped that the noble Lord, having adopted the Bill, would be able to state that he had made some alterations in it.
 Lord Althorp  said, having supported the Bill all along up to the present time, he did not see why it should be supposed he was likely to make any alteration.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  thought, that the measure never could be carried into execution; and that it would destroy four-fifths of the beer-houses. He had some apprehensions, too, that it might excite disobedience to the law in more than half the parishes of England. He was a foe to drunkenness; but he maintained, that when in that House and other Houses they knew that drunkenness existed, it was too hard to legislate against the humbler classes, and thereby to deprive them of their enjoyments.
 Mr. Mark Philips  said, that in a district with which he was well acquainted, in which the poor-rates were well administered, the diminution of them had been checked by the increase in the number of beer-houses.
 Mr. Potter  remembered when no man could get a licence unless he were of par-
 903
 Colonel Williams  did not think, that the circumstance of capital having been invested in the beer trade should prevent the House from dealing with the question. The gin-shops of the metropolis had no doubt laid out much capital in their "temples," but it did not, therefore, follow that their abuses should not be rectified.
 Major Beauclerk  believed that the evils of the beer-shops had been greatly exaggerated, and he thought the present measure unnecessary.
 Lord Granville Somerset  supported the Bill, persuaded that it would neither interfere with the capital invested in the trade nor with the innocent recreation of the middle classes of society.
 Lord Althorp  proposed, that at the end of the second clause the following proviso be inserted:—"Provided always, that in any parish, township, or place in which there are not ten inhabitants rated to the relief of the poor to the amount of 6 l
 Mr. Warburton  did not think, that the proviso of the noble Lord went far enough. There were many parishes in which there were no more than three or four rated inhabitants at 6 l
 Lord Althorp  said, that notice had been given of a clause to render the certificate unnecessary in towns containing 5,000 inhabitants; and he now proposed that the metropolis, large cities, all towns corporate, and boroughs returning Members to Parliament, should come under that description. In large towns the evils of the beer-houses had not been felt, and, therefore, he thought it would be unnecessary to require a certificate in such cases. But with respect to the rural districts, the case was very different. He had always been opposed to the requiring of a certificate from persons before they could retail beer, provided there was reason to believe that the police restriction under which they were placed was sufficient to preserve the public peace. Notwithstanding, however, the severe penal-
 904
 Mr. Aglionby  maintained, that as there were many parishes in which there were very few inhabitants rated at 6 l
 Lord Althorp  did not think such an extreme case was worthy of being provided for.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  said, he had received a petition from the parish of Ashbourne, containing 900 inhabitants, only twenty of whom were rated at 6 l
 Mr. Warburton  withdrew his Amendment, and, instead of it, moved, that instead of the words, "a majority" of those rated at 6 l
 Mr. Walter  said, that as it appeared that the first part of the amendment, of which he had given notice was not likely to meet with general concurrence, he should forbear to press it, and confine himself to the second part, which the
 905
 Lord Althorp  did not know what might be the effect of the clause which the hon. Gentleman had proposed; but he was quite sure the proviso was altogether unnecessary. Hon. Members seemed to argue that the Bill was intended to prevent the establishment of beer-shops altogether; whereas it only required as a condition that there should be a certificate of good character. Now, he did not think that brewers of a respectable standing could find any difficulty in procuring such a certificate. At all events, not knowing how far it might lead (and it might frustrate the whole provisions of the Bill), he should be under the necessity of opposing the clause.
 Mr. Walter  said, his proposition was suggested by a petition from several small brewers in the neighbourhood of Reading, who had embarked sums of from 400 l l
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  hoped the noble Lord would not persevere in his objection to the clause proposed by his hon friend, the member for Berkshire. He believed it to have been a main object of the Le-
 906
 Mr. Wilks  thought it did not go far enough. He wished that a clause had been brought forward exempting all existing establishments from the operation of this Amendment Act.
 Lord Althorp  did not think it followed, because a man was a brewer of beer, that he was necessarily of a good character; but if he were so, he would find no difficulty in complying with the provisions of the Act.
 Colonel Williams  objected to so much encouragement being given to brewers and retailers of beer. If the labouring classes of the community spent all their money in beer, what was to become of the bakers and butchers?
 Lord Althorp  said, that his wish was, to afford permission to all beer-houses to remain open as late and commence business as early as any of the public-houses in their neighbourhood; but he found great difficulty in wording a clause so as to accomplish that object, for the licensed victuallers were not limited to any specified hours. Amongst the grounds upon which he thought an assimilation of practice desirable was this, that when persons issued from the beer-houses not quite sober, and were excluded from them, they went to the public-houses and there finished themselves with gin.
 Mr. Warburton  thought, that words might be introduced declaring that beer-houses should open and close at the same hours appointed by the Magistrates for the opening and closing of the public-houses in their neighbourhood.
 Mr. Greene  said, that in many parts of the country there were not any particular hours appointed by the Magistrates, and no restraints were imposed upon houses that were generally speaking orderly and well regulated.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, he was quite certain his hon. and gallant friend was not aware of the inconvenience to the community, or of the entire ruin to vast numbers of individuals, which would be the certain consequence of the adoption of the clause he had proposed, but which he could not believe that he seriously intended to press. He (Mr. Hughes Hughes) had himself presented a petition to the House from two of his constituents, who represented, that they had embarked 10,000 l
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the Bill could not possibly work without those clauses ob-
 895
 Mr. Lefroy  said, that, so far from the clergy having an advantage, the clergyman was obliged to furnish his books to the Commissioners, and the absolute consent of both parties was necessary for the composition. Besides this, the parishioners, if aggrieved, could appeal to the Lord-lieutenant, and even from him to the Judge of Assize, and even from the Judge to Parliament. In 1822, the composition was said to be a conclusive measure; and he could not see on what principle of justice or honesty a clergyman should be called on now to state the sums received by him from 1814 to 1821—much less how he could be called on to state what sums his predecessor received in that time. He had heard much of the necessity of upholding the sacred nature of vested rights; but could Parliament, after having already despoiled the clergy of one-fifth of their revenues, now, without utterly subverting all title to property and all principles of justice, call on them to submit to the proposed inquiry, which would go to swindle them out of the rest? It was cruel and most unfair to put men, after the late successful resistance to tithes, to the criterion and ordeal of showing the nature of a composition entered into long ago, or of justifying the grounds of that composition. But he did not complain of the Government for the Bill as it at present stood, for the hon. member for Waterford had lately told them that the alterations had been stipulated for by the self-styled Irish Liberal Members; but he did complain of the measure as one of gross injustice, and one which, if adopted, must lead to mischief and confusion. The opening of the compositions already made was replete with injustice and oppression to the clergy, and would deprive the Government of all claim to confidence.
 Colonel Torrens  was of opinion, that the removal of the duty would make British coals cheap abroad, and dear to our own manufacturers.
 Mr. Charles Walker  supported the clause. The hon. Member stated that, in several parishes, the clergy had succeeded in striking an unfair average against the parishioners, by laying before the Commissioners promissory notes taken at a long date for arrears due to them.
 Mr. Littleton  said, that, as the clauses under consideration had been so well discussed by the members for the Cambridge and Dublin Universities on the one side, and several of the Irish County Members on the other, he thought it unnecessary for him to take up the time of the Committee. The clauses were only introduced to meet a case which he trusted would not arise; if it did not arise, it was needless for him to say the clause would not be had recourse to.
 Mr. Littleton  thanked the hon. and learned Member for calling his attention to the subject, as it undoubtedly was important; but it was also a question of very great difficulty, by reason of the very trifling nature of the payments. With respect to the exaction, he did not believe
 894
 Mr. Shaw  asserted, that nothing could be more unjust than the clauses which had been objected to by his hon. and learned friend (Mr. Lefroy). It was perfectly monstrous to give persons the power
 896 l l l
 Mr. Goulburn  could not understand the policy of the arrangement which the noble Lord seemed so anxious to carry into effect, of paying off one-fourth of the sum which the public owed to the Bank. He could not understand why the noble Lord should propose to reduce the amount of the security which the Bank offered to the public precisely at the moment when the new arrangements made with the Bank of England tended to increase the amount of their circulating medium, by substituting their Bank paper in the place of private bank paper. That, however, was a matter which had been discussed and settled in the last Session of Parliament. But the present proposition of the noble Lord, instead of having the effect of lightening the burthens of the country, would increase them, and ultimately add largely to them. It would, in fact, create a permanent charge to the country of upwards of 400,000 l l 899 l l
 Mr. Goulburn  was astonished at the course taken by the right hon. Gentleman, a course such as no Minister of the Crown ever before attempted. He called for a revisal, or, in other words, an abrogation, of the solemn compact entered into ten years ago by the Composition Act between the Clergy and the people,—a compact sanctioned by Parliament, and one that gave general satisfaction. That Act was meant to be a final settlement of the difficulties attending the tithe question. By it the parishioners and clergy were empowered to appoint each party a Commissioner; and if these did not agree, an appeal was allowed to a superior tribunal. Now it was sought to annul that composition, and at the demand of one party only; for by the proposed clauses any seven rate-payers who only paid 24 s
 Mr. Henry Grattan  supported the clause, and bore testimony to the truth of the circumstance which the hon. member for Wexford had just stated.
 Mr. Warburton  did not see any objection to paying off one-fourth of the debt due to the Bank, for the sum which remained constituted a sufficient security on the part of that body to the public. He did think, however, that the bargain made by the noble Lord was most improvident. He contended, that in consequence of that bargain, the country, instead of having only 100 l l l l l
 Mr. Warburton  admitted, that he had overstated the case against the noble Lord; but still he must say, that if the conversion had been made at the rate of 91 l s l l l l l
 Mr. Warburton  said, that the introduction of this clause would have the effect of expediting the period when coals nearest the surface and nearest the sea would be exhausted; consequently, a greater expense of machinery would be necessary, the consumers and manufacturers at home would pay a higher price for coal, and the Dutch and French manufacturers would get our coals cheaper.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  did not understand that the hon. Member meant to request a copy of the minutes of the court of inquiry at a period when the Secretary at War was not in his place. The papers connected with this case were not at his office, but at the Horse Guards; but he would undertake to say, that whenever the hon. Baronet thought proper to make an application, by a distinct Motion to the House, for the production of the minutes of evidence taken before the court of inquiry, he should be fully prepared to submit such a case to the House as would satisfy them of the impropriety of acceding to the application. He had had only three days' notice of the intention to make this application, and as he had had so very short time to examine the circumstances of the dismissal, he would only observe, that what he had seen was quite sufficient to satisfy his own mind, that the deliberate opinion of his right hon. predecessor, as well as that of the Secretary at War, upholding the justice of the determination to which the court of inquiry
 890 891
 Mr. Robert Wallace  said, he had a Petition to present of a very extraordinary nature, such as he had never expected the honour of presenting. It was from a gentleman of Nova Scotia, and complained of the most extraordinary grievance that he (Mr. Wallace) had ever heard of. He would remark here, that it was now more requisite to look to the interests of our Colonies, since the alteration of the representation by the Reform Bill rendered it impossible for the Colonies to obtain a representative by sending a certain sum of money, and thus purchasing a seat in that House. They were now compelled to get such Members as himself to state their case to the best of their abilities. The petitioner was a gentleman of the name of Maurice
 892 893
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  did not see any great objection to the plan of the noble Lord, though he was afraid it would give the Bank even greater facilities than it at present possessed to play with the National Funds. He thought there should be a Board of Control, which ought to have a superintending power over the Bank, as the Board of Control so called had over the affairs of India.
 Mr. O'Reilly  was in favour of the clause as it stood. It was calculated to do justice both to tithe-payers and tithe-receivers.
 Sir Francis Vincent  presented a Petition from an individual named Home, late Lieutenant-Colonel in the army, complaining of having been unjustly deprived of his Commission, and praying redress. The hon. Member said, that all he should ask on that occasion was, a copy of the Minutes of the Court of Inquiry which recommended his dismissal, as the military officers who composed that Court were charged by the petitioner with having forged and fabricated the documents on which the decision was come to.
 Sir George Murray  was of opinion the Crown possessed that prerogative, but that it should only be exerted in extreme cases. He (Sir George Murray) was connected with the regiment to which the petitioner formerly belonged, and knew that in the present case a court of inquiry was directed, consisting of the most experienced and humane officers in the army, thereby showing that there was no disposition to act severely toward the petitioner; and yet these gross allegations were not brought against those most honourable and amiable persons until they were no longer alive to refute them. In his opinion, for the honour of British officers, for the maintenance of its high character, and for the honour of the country it served, the dismissal of this individual, founded upon the verdict of the Court of King's Bench, was perfectly justifiable and was required. He was convinced, that if the petitioner had had justice on his side, there was no quarter from which he was more sure of attentive consideration than from the humanity of his late Royal Highness, then Commander-in-Chief.
 Mr. Hutt  observed, that coals were not exported to foreign ports for manufacturers, but for domestic purposes. We had no monopoly of coal.
 Lord Althorp  admitted, that whenever the debt was paid off, 100 l l 902
 Lord Althorp  said, that relying on the accuracy of his hon. friend's calculation, he believed his statement, that the effect of the bargain made with the Bank would be to make the country pay three per cent on 111 l l l l 901 l l l l l l
 Lord Althorp  stated, that it was his intention to explain the arrangement which was proposed to be made with the Bank of England for the purpose of paying one-fourth of the amount of the debt due from the public to that Company on or before the 5th of October, according to the terms of the Chatter. By the provisions of the Bank Charter, the Bank was entitled to receive this fourth part of the debt, amounting to the sum of 3,671,700 l l l l l 898 l
 Lord Althorp  said, the Composition Act was a temporary expedient, and passed under circumstances that could not last. When the charge was transferred to other parties, it would be most unjust not to allow revision.
 Lord Althorp  observed, that if the article had been exclusively produced here, or competition abroad did not prevent our charging foreigners with a duty upon our coal, there might be some reason for objecting to the clause. The question then was, whether it was likely to diminish the quantity of coal brought to market for home consumption? He thought not; there were large fields of coal close to the surface, and near the sea, not touched. There was, therefore, not any danger of exhaustion taking place.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, that although on a former occasion he had stated his opposition to the progress of the Bill to proceed mainly from the circumstance of the period of the Session at which it was introduced, and the time of night at which it was attempted to bring it on, still as his opinion with respect to the principle and details of the Bill had undergone a considerable change, he begged to state, as the ground of such change, that, in consequence of communications he had received on the subject, he had thought it his duty to devote some hours in seeing several of the parties who were most anxious to emigrate, and minutely investigating the particulars of the measure; and he confessed the result to be that he should not see it right to offer further opposition to the progress of the Bill which he understood to have the sanction of the right hon. Secretary to the Colonies, whom he was glad to see in his place.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes,  after what had been said by the hon. Member, felt called upon, in his own justification, to state more fully the reasons for his altered view of the Bill. He had fully satisfied himself that, though the measure had been justly termed an experiment, and the right hon. Secretary had, in consequence, very properly limited the extent of the territory to be assigned to the proposed colony as
 911 bona fide, l.
 Mr. Ruthven  did not oppose the Bill; but thought there should be some limitation, in case the colony should not succeed in a certain time, that the rights granted under this Act should revert to the Crown. He felt, as an Irish Member, much mortification at hearing such repeated expressions of lip-sympathy towards Ireland. It would be much better if hon. Gentlemen would prove their sympathies by their votes.
 Colonel Perceval  then rose to move the Amendment of which he had given notice,
 909 l. maximum.
 Mr. Tower  had no disposition or intention whatever to attack Ireland. On the contrary, if the present measure was calculated to confer any boon, he claimed it on behalf of the people of Ireland, and hoped they would have it.
 Mr. Tower  said, this was a very important measure, and one which required consideration in more points of view than were given to it. He feared very much, that the unlimited opportunity of emigration—an opportunity to be limited only by the discretion of the Commissioners, would be injurious to the interests of English agriculture. Various parishes might take advantage of this measure to purchase tracts of land in Australia, for the purpose of exporting there large masses of able-bodied labourers. It was said, there was a surplus of able-bodied labourers; he did not believe that that was the case. There were not more English labourers than were required for the cultivation of the soil, and the surplus that at times existed arose from the influx of Irish labourers. In Ireland, indeed, there was a surplus of labourers; and if this Bill were desirable it must be for the purpose of carrying off surplus labour from Ireland. If a patient had the pleurisy, the remedy should be applied to the locality of the disease. Nor would he object even to a grant of the public money, for the purpose of facilitating voluntary emigration from Ireland. Independently of which, the Irish labourer was better adapted for the purpose of emigration than the English labourer; he could live on harder fare, and was accustomed to a more primitive state of existence. Confined to Ireland, the Bill would be beneficial; and, from the operation of the recent measure as to tithes, if accompanied by a salutary Poor-law, he anticipated the greatest advantages to that country. But, extended to England, the Bill would create a vacuum in English labour, which could only be supplied from Ireland, much to the prejudice of the English agriculturists. He therefore moved, as an Amendment, that the words "Great Britain or," in line 42, be omitted, thus limiting, in the first instance, the emigration to Irish labourers.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that many of the suggestions thrown out had been met in a very friendly spirit by the promoters of the Bill. The amount of territory to be conceded had been limited, and the amount of money which the Commissioners were permitted to raise on loan had been limited to 100,000 l. 910
 Mr. Vernon Smith  said, that with respect to the steam communication urged by the hon. member for Greenock, in many instances communication by land was more speedy. With respect to the alteration in the mail from Glasgow to Greenock, the alteration was advantageous, inasmuch as the letters now passed at the rate of eleven miles an hour, whereas formerly the coach travelled only at the rate of eight miles an hour. He regretted that the hon. Member, after bestowing so many compliments on the Post-office department, should charge them with giving an exclusive privilege to one of the Members of that House. If the charge were true, it must have arisen from accident. He was not one of those that wished to extend the power of franking; the public was desirous that it should be diminished. He did not think
 918
 Mr. Secretary Rice  was ready to acknowledge, that all petitions emanating from the Representative Assemblies of the Colonies, were entitled to the serious attention of the Government and the House, but he regretted to say, that he entirely dissented from the prayer of the present petition. The principle it involved was, that the amount of compensation should be according to the value of the slaves. There was no Member of that House, he was convinced, who would not admit that compensation should bear an equal proportion to the value of the thing taken away, and this was the principle that had been proceeded upon. It was not what a thing cost, but what it would fetch, that should be the standard of compensation. But to show the injustice and bad policy of giving compensation  per capita, l., l. l.
 Mr. Secretary Rice  said, it must be admitted, that much irritation and excitement had prevailed in certain parts of Lower Canada, and there was no question he had more sincerely at heart than to reconcile contending parties, and to remove any just ground of complaint. It was of the greatest importance that the mother country should entertain a good feeling toward the colonies, and equally important to the latter, to maintain a friendly understanding with Great Britain, and he considered that man the worst enemy to Canada who should promote a separation from the mother country, as the means of obtaining the redress of grievances, whether real or imaginary. Entertaining such opinions, he could not help feeling the deepest regret that the sentiments contained in a letter which had appeared in the public papers, purporting to have been written by the hon. member for Middlesex, should have emanated from any Member of the British Senate. In that letter, he found the following passage:—"A crisis is fast approaching in the affairs of the Canadas, which will terminate in independence and freedom from the baneful domination of the mother country, and the tyrannical conduct of a small and despicable faction in the colony." If an hon. member of the British Parliament took upon himself to address such language to an individual in the station that Mr. M'Kenzie held in the colony, and denounced the Government of Great Britain as a "baneful domination," so far from reconciling the party animosities, and
 921
 Mr. Secretary Rice  observed, that a Member of Parliament enjoying his perfect security in Bryanston-square, was not in a fair situation to recommend the inhabitants of a distant colony to adopt measures of resistance of the description to which the hon. Gentleman alluded. Why did he not take the field and expose himself to the consequences, instead of playing the part of the trumpeter in safety at home Let the hon. Member, if he incited resistance contrary to law, meet the consequences, and he hoped the law would lay hold of him. The right hon. Gentleman read an address, numerously signed, from some of the most respectable inhabitants of Upper Canada, deprecating the sentiments contained in the petition, and expressing the most perfect satisfaction with the British Government.
 Mr. Cutler Ferguson  denied, that any security was taken from the Protestant Church in Ireland; or that the act was one of spoliation and injustice. His hon. friend had not, he was afraid, read the Bill, for one-fifth, not two-fifths, was taken away and to balance that, tithe-owners would be spared the whole expense of collection. 
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he had never witnessed greater ingratitude than had been shown towards Government upon this question by several hon. Members. Much had been said about unfairness towards the Protestant clergy; but how stood the fact? They were now possessed, say of 100 l. l. 925
 Colonel Torrens  differed  in toto
 Mr. O'Connell : Nine-tenths.
 Mr. Lefroy  was more than ever opposed to the measure. The clergymen of Ireland were not satisfied with the Bill as it stood, and they must be fools or madmen if they were so. Were there no other objections to it? The clause which had been introduced on the motion of the hon. and learned member for Dublin would be a sufficient one. It was clear, that the Church of Ireland was about to be robbed of two-fifths of its property. He begged also to know, what provision there was for the repair of the ecclesiastical edifices in Ireland? Unless some provision were made for that purpose, they would all go to ruin.
 Mr. O Dwyer  observed, that it was very fashionable in that House to attack the agitators of Ireland; but it ought to be recollected, that there were two classes of those agitators; one, whose object it was to conciliate the people by the removal of their grievances; the other, who endeavoured, by the continuance of those grievances, to perpetuate national distraction. 
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that he was not at all satisfied with the reasons which had been given for the reduction of the duty on spirits in Ireland exclusively. The noble Lord had stated, that the quantity of spirits produced in Ireland was twelve millions of gallons. He did not know by what gauge the noble Lord ascertained this amount, nor did he know why the noble Lord had not informed the House what proportion this bore to the production in the other parts of the United Kingdom, without which they could not form a satisfactory judgment. If the quantity of spirits produced in Scotland was as much above the quantity brought to charge, as it was in Ireland, surely there would be as much reason for reduction in the one place as in the other; and unless the noble Lord gave the data upon which he proceeded, it was impossible for the House to know, whether it was expedient to adopt the great change which the noble Lord proposed. He had a very strong objection to the measure, on the very ground which the noble Lord assigned as the justification of it. The noble Lord said, that illicit distillation or smuggling had not been carried on in Scotland; but that it had in Ireland to a
 934
 Lord Althorp  observed, that the right hon. Gentleman was inconsistent in his argument, for he had, when in office, raised the duty on spirits, which had caused the increase of illicit distillation.
 Mr. Goulburn:  If the noble Lord states a fact, he should state it correctly. I certainly increased the duty on spirits, but I did it in Scotland and Ireland at the same time. In Scotland there has been no increase of illicit distillation, and I have yet to learn upon what authority it is said to have increased in Ireland.
 Lord Althorp  had alluded to Ireland. The right hon. Gentleman said, that the increase of duty would increase the revenue, but it had, in fact, only increased illicit distillation, for the revenue fell off. The right hon. Gentleman wished to know the grounds upon which it was asserted, that illicit distillation had increased in Ireland. He begged to inform him, that there was a Commission of Inquiry at present sitting, and from the results of that inquiry, and the fact that the revenue had fallen off, it was ascertained that illicit distillation had increased, there being no reason to suppose, that the consumption
 935
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, that, as the Bill, in consequence of the proviso moved by him, did not affect the present Speaker, his objections to it were so far diminished. Still he thought that there were no situations in the country, the duties of which were of so onerous and arduous a description as those of the Clerks at the Table. It should be recollected also, that those Gentlemen were cut off from all connexion with society. They were, in fact, unable to make any appointment of a convivial or social nature. One of the objects of this Bill was said to be to put an end to sinecures, among which the office of Clerk of Engrossments was reckoned. It was true, that the duties of that situation were not heavy, but it had always been considered as a retiring office for one of the Gentlemen who had very arduous duties to perform in that House, and who was not entitled to receive any retiring allowance. He considered the measure to be one of pitiful economy, and unworthy of a reformed House of Commons.
 Mr. Hume  was surprised to hear the hon. Member characterize the Bill as a measure of pitiful economy. The hon. Member was wrong in supposing that the office of Clerk of Engrossments was reserved for the Gentlemen who transacted laborious duty in that House; for Sir E. Stracey, who held that situation and another sinecure office besides, had never performed any duty in that House. With respect to the salary of the Speaker, he did not think that that officer, who was only employed for six months, was entitled to receive a greater salary than the First Lord of the Treasury, or the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who were occupied during the whole year. 
 Mr. Goulburn  never heard a proposition which caused him so much surprise as that which had been made for the reduction of the Speaker's salary. So far from the duties of the Speaker having diminished since the year 1790, when the amount of
 937 l. l.; l., l.
 Mr. Tooke  did not think the present allowance too much for the first commoner in England: compared to other officers of the realm, it was not more than it ought to be.
 Mr. Ewart  thought the sum now proposed to be given was sufficient to insure an adequate discharge of the duty of the office, and was, at the same time, adequate to maintain its dignity. 
 Colonel Williams  said, the House ought to consider the means of the people.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  thought, if the people of England were not able to pay enough to support the dignity of that officer who maintained the majesty of the people, they must be poor indeed. 
 Mr. Shaw  said, the question should be left to the decision of future Parliaments, especially as it had been agreed that the measure was entirely prospective, and could not affect the salary of the present Speaker.
 Mr. Francis Baring  said, that he knew nothing of any such payment.
 Mr. Secretary Rice  said, that he had held the office of Secretary to the Treasury for a longer time than his hon. friend, and he knew nothing of any such payment.
 Mr. George F.  Young expressed his regret that the right hon. Gentleman did not appear to have turned his attention so much as appeared desirable to the question, as to the practicability of a passage by steam round the Cape of Good Hope. He was glad that the experiments proposed by the Government were to be made, although he could not say that he entertained very confident hopes of their success; whereas on the other hand, he was convinced that, under the encouragement of the Government, Calcutta might be reached by the Cape of Good Hope in seventy-Five days, at all periods of the year. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would take this point into his consideration.
 Colonel Davies  contended, that a more wavering, imbecile course had never been pursued by any Ministry than that which had been adopted by his Majesty's Government with respect to the present measure. As he had already stated, its tendency was to saddle the people of Great Britain and Scotland with a burthen which ought not to be imposed upon them. So far was the present measure from being calculated to restore peace to Ireland, that its evident effect would be, to increase war in that country. What had been the declaration of the hon. and learned member for Tipperary? That the present measure would be quite unsatisfactory in Ireland, and that, in the next Session, there would be a loud clamour for additional sacrifices.
 Lord William Lennox  did not rise to enter generally into the subject of Post-office improvements; he merely wished to correct an error which the hon. member for Greenock had fallen into. That hon. Member, in his suggested alterations, had stated, that in England no security was given when the postage of a letter was paid for its safe delivery, either to go abroad, or for home circulation, but in France and Germany a guarantee was given. Now such was not the case. It was perfectly true that in France and Germany, by paying an additional sum to the postage of the letter by way of insurance, a guarantee of safe delivery was given, but without that insurance no greater security was granted than that in our own country. He thought the English Post-office infinitely better conducted than foreign Post-offices; delays, mistakes, and losses being notoriously greater abroad than at home. When the subject was brought next Session before the House, he would enter more fully into it; on the present occasion he had confined himself to correcting an error the hon. member for Greenock had unintentionally been led into, and he felt that the English public would not wish to incur the additional expense of insuring letters, when by following the present system every security was given to prevent accidents happening.
 Mr. Charles Grant  said, that some time ago he had moved for a Committee on the subject of our communications with India; the Committee sat, and paid great attention to the matter, and its Report had been laid on the Table. There were two routes under consideration—the one communicating with Bombay by the Red Sea, the other by the Euphrates and Persian Gulf. The Report enforced the importance of a rapid communication with India, and expressed the opinion of the Committee in reference to both lines. With respect to the route by the Red Sea, they stated, that experiments made for five successive seasons had completely established the practicability of that line of communication during eight months in the year, but during the four months of the south-west monsoons it was not quite so clear that the communication could be effected. The Committee recommended that measures should be taken to establish the communication by the Red Sea, and they proposed that the expense should be divided between India and this country. As to the other route, by the Euphrates and the Persian Gulf, the Committee stated that sufficient experiments had not yet been made, but that there appeared no physical obstacle to the communication during eight months of the year. During the remaining four months when the river was low, it was not certain that the line was practicable. The Committee recommended, however, as the East-India Company had expended between 60,000 l. l. l., 931
 Mr. Ellice  said, that according to the suggestion of the Committee which had sat upon the subject, orders had been given for an inspection of the whole Militia Staff of England. That inspection was not yet quite finished, and some time
 933
 Mr. Littleton  said, that the expenses in the latter case were caused by the delays occasioned by the traverser himself. Had the trial been allowed to proceed in the first instance, the costs would not have amounted to anything like the sum stated in the Return. He could inform the Committee, with reference to the reduction of the expenses of law proceedings by the Crown in Ireland, that it was intended not to employ more than two counsel in any ordinary case, and not more than three in any case in Crown prosecutions. A reduction would, in other respects, be also made in the costs of such prosecutions.
 Mr. Littleton  observed, that experience did not induce him to place much reliance on the predictions of the hon. and learned member for the University of Dublin. All he would say, in answer to the hon. and learned member for the University of Dublin was, that, upon mature consideration, his Majesty's Government were per-
 926
 Mr. Littleton  stated, that there were ample funds for all the necessary repairs of ecclesiastical edifices in Ireland. 
 Mr. Shaw  said, he was one who felt no jot of gratitude to Government for this measure, nor could the hon. and learned member for Dublin, for the measure was his own. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Sinclair) was perfectly right when he said, that two-fifths would be taken from the clergy; and the hon. Member (Mr. Cutler Fergusson) was completely wrong when he asserted, that only one-fifth would be taken. Under the Bill of last Session one-fifth was taken, and that he had consented to in order to get a permanent settlement of the question; but, under the present Bill, two-fifths were sacrificed. Of course the hon. and learned member for Dublin advocated no measure, but to give peace and tranquillity to Ireland; but it was worse than mockery to talk of this Bill giving either peace or tranquillity. They were not arrived at this flagrant, gross injustice, and such was the character of this Bill. The Government had introduced a measure in February, founded upon three great principles; and from every one of those principles they had completely departed. Those principles were redemption of tithe, the restoration practically of the law with respect to tithes, and not permitting 1 s.
 Mr. Shaw  said, he certainly had received more than fifteen letters on a Monday, and he believed that he was not charged for those above the number of fifteen, in consequence of an application which he had made to the Post-office department. Those letters were posted on Friday and Saturday, and arrived partly on Sunday and partly on Monday. When, therefore, the number of letters for each day did not exceed fifteen, it seemed fair that he should not be charged with them, as he would not be if the letters were delivered on Sunday.
 Mr. Sinclair  called the attention of the House to the extent and importance of the alterations introduced into this Bill, since it was first laid on the Table. He did not believe, that in the whole history of parliamentary legislation such sweeping changes had been effected in any great national measure; and it might especially be said, in reference to its passage through the Committee,
 "Amphora cepit Institui; currente rotâ, cur urceus exit?" 924
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the effect of the clause would be to repeal that part of the Church Temporalities Bill of last Session which provided for the rebuilding of churches, and the decent performance of divine service.
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that to facilitate and expedite a mutual knowledge of what was passing in India, and England would be worth ten times the sum now proposed to be devoted to that purpose. The greatest moral, political, and mercantile advantages might be expected to result from a more rapid communication between the two countries, to which, as he could not see any serious impediment, so he did not anticipate the least objection to the vote.
 Mr. Herries  could bear testimony to the excellent manner in which the Post-office was conducted. At the same time, there seemed to be a want of some regulations respecting the delivery of letters on Sundays and Mondays. The Post-office ought, in his opinion, to consider the number of letters received each day, and if they did not exceed the number of fifteen for each day, to deliver them on Monday free of postage. 
 Mr. Hume  read a letter from a similar body in one of the provinces, and said the
 923
 Mr. Hume  said, it was necessary he should state to the House the nature of the letter, and its origin, as he was quite prepared to defend the sentiments it contained. Although he had been the subject of the vilest abuse of the Press; although all manner of lies had been circulated against him on this subject, and particularly by  The Times 922
 Mr. Hume  said, that according to the Act of Parliament, Members ought to receive their letters every day in the week. This was the case everywhere out of London; but in London alone, where Members might have an opportunity of attending to them, letters were not received. He had frequently been compelled to pay for his letters on the Monday morning, but always did so under protest, and he considered that he was robbed every time he did so. Every Member ought to receive his letters every day in London, and out of it, and the neglect of the Post-office, in this respect, was a grievance which ought to be attended to.
 Mr. Hume  was glad, that he had drawn
 932
 Mr. Hume  took that opportunity of asking the Secretary at War, whether any reduction was to be made in this branch of the service? He considered the whole Militia force a useless expense. 
 Mr. Hume  said, that perhaps the Secretary to the Treasury could be able to say something about it, as it would fall more immediately under his notice.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know, whether there were in the items of law expenses in England any other prosecutions included besides those of prosecutions carried on by the law officers of the Crown? He asked the question, because he had seen a statement in a public paper which mentioned, that a prosecution carried on by certain Magistrates against an individual was with the understanding, that the Law Officers of the Crown would not undertake the prosecution, but that the Magistrates should be borne harmless as to expense, if they carried it on. He thought such a system was an exceedingly bad one. The Government ought fairly to undertake the responsibility of any prosecution which was paid for out of the public money.
 Mr. Hume  thought, that this was an enormous sum for such an object. He hoped that some means would be taken to diminish this expenditure. He perceived that it was a constant practice to employ eight or nine counsel in one case. Surely that was an unnecessary expense.
 Mr. Hume  said, then he was to take it for granted, that the account to which he
 930
 Mr. Hume  wished to know what course was intended to be adopted by the Government on this subject? 
 Mr. Hume  expressed a hope, that Government would be prepared to follow up the Report of the Commissioners in the course of the next Session. He looked upon the subject to which the labours of the Commission had been directed as one of the most important which could engage the attention of the Legislature, next to that of Parliamentary Reform. 
 Mr. Hume:  Whatever might be the amount, he trusted that, from the present day, no vacancy would be filled up by his Majesty's Government.
  Mr. Hume  rose to present a petition from Quebec, in Lower Canada, in support of the resolutions of the Assembly of the province, which set forth ninety-two distinct grounds of complaint, with reference to the government of that colony, and was signed by 13,083 individuals. The hon. Member supported the prayer of the petition, and observed, that as the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies had given the delegates who had been sent over with the petition an assurance that the complaints of the petitioners should receive his most serious attention, he would not trouble the House further, than by assuring them, that so long as the present system of misrule was suffered to continue in the colonies, the inhabitants would continue to desire that the management of their affairs should be intrusted to their own hands.
 Mr. Hume  was at a loss to know why the Exchequer of England should be called upon to maintain the Church of Ireland. He did not think his Majesty's Government were warranted in their present proposition. Let those who wanted a Church Establishment in Ireland pay for it. If, however, he did not resist the proposition for a temporary recourse to the Consolidated Fund, it must be on the distinct understanding, that the advance from that fund would by-and-by be repaid. He trusted that his Majesty's Government, as vacancies occurred, would not appoint another individual on the establishment of the Church of Ireland; for it was clear that no more were wanted. Four-fifths of the patronage of the Established Church in Ireland was in the hands of the Government and of the Bishops.
 Mr. Patrick Stewart  regretted such a petition should have come from the Colonies at such a most important crisis, at the very time, when, in all probability, the momentous question of the emancipation of the slaves would be put to the test. He concurred in the opinion, that the question could not now be re-opened.
 Mr. Sheil  observed, in explanation, with reference to what had fallen from the hon. and gallant member for Worcester, that all that he had stated with reference to the present Bill was, that it was not perfect, but that more must be done hereafter.
 Mr. Sheil  held in his hand a return of
 929 v. l. s. d. v. l. s. d.
 Mr. Wallace  in reply, said, that there ought to be a delivery of letters on Sunday to every man who chose to call for them; and if they were not delivered after this Session, he would make a demand for them. He did not want a delivery in the streets. With respect to the mail-coach from Glasgow to Greenock, that had been given up as a matter of economy, and at the suggestion of the contractors. He was aware that an immense sum was paid upon foreign letters, but he hoped such a system would never be introduced into this country.
 Mr. Robert Wallace  then presented a Petition from the Chamber of Commerce of Greenock, praying for a communication by Steam Packets to and from the Clyde. The hon. Member proceeded to detail the inconvenience and delay occasioned by the present mode of transmitting letters by the Post-office, and stated, that the feeling in favour of a communication by steam was very general throughout that part of Scotland. He understood that offence had been taken by the Secretary of the Post-office at some observations which he had felt it his duty to make in that House. He would take that oppor-
 916 917
  Sir Richard Vyvyan 
presented a petition from the Council and Assembly of Barbadoes, complaining that, according to the proposed distribution of the Compensation Fund, they would not receive the full amount of their loss under the Slave Emancipation Act. The hon. Baronet recommended a revision of the Act of last Session, relative to the distribution of the Compensation Fund.
 Lord Althorp  had not heard of any such prosecution as that to which the hon. Member had referred having been paid for out of the public money.
 Lord Althorp  concurred with his hon. friend, the member for Middlesex, in thinking that the subject was, next to the question of Parliamentary Reform, one of the most important which could engage the attention of Parliament; and he could assure the House, that it was the intention of Government to follow up the Report with some practical measures in the next Session.
 Mr. Tooke  moved, that the Bill be committed that day three months.
 Sir John Hobhouse  admitted it to be somewhat ungracious to oppose the committal of a Bill  in limine
 Mr. Childers  said, he had no intention to propose the exemption of any one particular town; but a general clause would be introduced, by which the neighbourhood of all large towns would be exempted from the operation of the Bill.
 Mr. Tooke  expressed his determination to persevere in the Amendment he had proposed. He strongly objected to the House being called upon, at so late a period of the Session, to legislate on a subject of such grave importance. He would, however, be willing to lend his assistance in the next Session of Parliament to any well-digested measure on this subject.
 Mr. Blamire  supported the Bill, and trusted no impediment would be thrown in the way of passing it into a law during the present Session: if the Bill was imperfect, it was a reason for going into Committee.
 Mr. Hawes  was desirous to know whether the Clause he had proposed on a former occasion, excluding the neighbourhoods of large towns from the operation of the Bill, would be objected to?
 Mr. Childers  was willing to adopt the first part of it, to prevent the Bill from taking effect within ten miles of the metropolis; but he thought there were many objections to the other part of the Clause, excluding towns with a population of 3,000 from the operation, within three miles of such towns. That was a question for consideration in Committee.
 Major Beauclerk  was glad to see the House entertain a different view of the question to-day from that which formerly induced it to vote against his Amendment. He was induced to withdraw his opposition to it on that occasion, at the suggestion of several Members of the House, on the understanding, that large towns would not be included in the Bill. Finding, however, that such a proposition had been abandoned, he should give the Bill all the opposition in his power.
 Mr. Finch  supported the Bill, contending that it would tend much to the improvement of agriculture and the benefit of the lower classes.
 Mr. Aglionby  was convinced, that nothing contained in the Bill would have the effect of depriving the poor of any of the rights or enjoyments they now possessed. He earnestly hoped the Bill would be suffered to pass during the present Session.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  said, the period at which it was introduced formed alone a fatal objection to the measure.
 Mr. Hodges  opposed the Bill. Among the defects of the measure there was one to which he would call the attention of the House—he alluded to tithes, which were not taken notice of in the Bill. He also reminded the House of the objection taken by the hon. member for Reading on a former occasion to the entire omission of any clause for the drainage of land. These objections formed only a part of the ground on which he opposed the Bill; there were many other very serious difficulties.
 Sir Henry Willoughby  said, the Bill was evidently not understood by the
 963
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the hon. member for Leeds (Mr. Baines) recommended very "warmly" the printing of this Report; but he (Mr. O'Connell) hoped that the House would as "coolly" reject such a proposition. The bon. Gentleman said, that this Report did not express the opinions of the Committee but of the witnesses! The witnesses? Did the Committee not understand what they had to do? To be sure they seemed to have been a little muddled—there must have been some mud in the water; and he saw that the hon. Gentleman's appearance was that of a man who drank nothing but water—nothing but solid water!—but ought the House to meet this proposition for printing the Report, when the Committee came before them with so silly, so absurd a suggestion as that of preventing the importation of spirits? And should they sit there and sanction such nonsense? This was the Report embodying the opinions of the witnesses! If such were their opinions, the Committee ought to have said, that at this period of the moon these men ought to be taken care of. When they talked of preventing the importation of spirits, he was astonished that the good sense of his hon. friend had not convinced him, that these people wanted a guard. Distillation was to be confined to the chemists only! But he begged pardon of the House for detaining them with such trash. If they allowed this Report to be printed, they would encourage every drivelling Legislator. Oh, yes! they would have some snail-paced Legislator moving for a Committee to inquire into the best means of preventing flies from destroying butter or honey.
 Colonel Williams  thought the House bound to receive the Report, and have it printed. Whatever ridicule might attach to the course, he would take care to place the following Resolutions on the Journals of the House:— 968
 Mr. Mark Philips  said, that although his name appeared as one of the Members of that Committee, he had not consented, nor could anything short of the Coercion Bill induce him to concur in that Report. He thought the wisest course on the part of the House would be to receive the evidence without the Report.
 Mr. Ruthven  said, that some portions of this Report were absurd enough, yet still he thought it would be going too far to say, that it ought not to be printed.
 Mr. Maxwell  was determined to support the Motion for printing the Report, and at the same time begged to express a hope that those who had in this instance shown themselves friendly to the measure would not be deterred from coming forward in support of it early in the next Session.
 Mr. Lefroy  said, that as the subject had been discussed very fully already, it was not his intention to enter much at length into the merits of the question, but, having voted for the second reading of the Bill, he felt himself called upon to state to the House, as well as to justify himself to his constituents, his reasons for now moving, that the Bill be read a third time that day six months. What he intended to offer to the House should consist of a short summary of what appeared to him to be the distinction between the first Bill—that which had been read a second time—and the Bill which his Majesty's Ministers now proposed to have read a third time; and in comparing the present Bill with the former, he thought it right to call the attention of the House to what was the foundation of the Bill as originally introduced to the House by his Majesty's Ministers. That Bill purported to be founded upon a passage contained in the Speech of his Majesty from the Throne at the opening of the present Session of Parliament. The passage was as follows:—"I recommend," said his Majesty, "to you the early consideration of such a final adjustment of tithes." (That Speech was delivered in February, and now, in August, the House was fulfilling the recommendation of taking the subject into its "early consideration.") "I recommend to you," said his Majesty, "the early consideration of such a final adjustment of the Tithes in Ireland as may extinguish all just causes of complaint, without injury to the rights and property of any class of my subjects." Now the Bill which was brought in in February last, in pursuance of the recommendations contained in the Speech from the Throne, was in conformity with the recommendation, and was calculated to give effect to the wise and prudent counsel contained in it. The right hon. Gentleman who introduced the Bill, in the course of his speech on that occasion, adopted as a leading principle the necessity of realizing the property of the Church, and with a view to that object, he stated, "the first thing to be done in the estimation of the Government will be to confer upon this description of property all possible security which it is in the power of Parliament to confer upon it." The right hon. Gentleman
 972 973 974 975 l l l l l 976 l l l l l
 Mr. Lefroy  would take the earliest opportunity of moving for a return which would show not the estimate but the actual sum in the hands of the Commissioners; and he (Mr. Lefroy) had the strongest reason for supposing that the Ecclesiastical Commissioners had not sixpence at their disposal. The churchwardens of St. Thomas's parish addressed a letter to the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, in the month of May, in which they stated that they had no means of providing for the celebration of divine service, or of paying the officers of the
 977 l 978 979
 Mr. Halcombe  was of opinion, that the Coronation Oath, and the Articles of Union prohibited the Legislature from appropriating the property of the Church. At the same time, when a case of necessity arose like the present, something must be done. Parliament had certainly the power, if not the right, to act. Ministers were, he admitted, justified in proposing some measure; but he disapproved of the provisions of this Bill. On that account, he should feel himself bound to oppose the Motion for the third reading. The measure in his opinion gave the clergy no security for that property which was left them, and was therefore unworthy to receive the assent of that House.
 Mr. O'Connell  contended, that, by the Bill as it now stood, a better security would be given for the collection of the three-fifths than could otherwise exist for the collection of the whole tithe. In fact, there would be no security, unless this Bill became a law, for the collection of any portion of tithe; but now that difficulty would be got rid of. The speech of the hon. and learned member for the University of Dublin seemed to him the dying note of the heretofore ascendancy party in Ireland; that hon. and learned
 992 l l 993
 Mr. Secretary Rice  said, the expenses of the prosecution were not paid out of the secret service money.
 Mr. Littleton  objected to the words being inserted, on the ground that they would render the Bill inoperative.
 Mr. French  was rather surprised at the change of the right hon. Gentleman's opinion. It was not his object to render the Bill inoperative; on the contrary, his intention was, and the effect of his Amendment, if adopted, would be, to render the Bill what, if this clause remained unaltered, it had little chance of becoming,—useful and effective. By the Bill as it now stood, the Lord-lieutenant was empowered to issue a commission to inquire into the expediency of building or rebuilding any bridge connecting two counties, and to direct that the expense should be levied off these and whatever other counties should be declared by them interested in the execution of the work, provided the Grand Jury of one of these counties should present a sum to defray the expense of that Commission, and request him to issue it. Now, did the right hon. Gentleman imagine that any Grand Jury would be so foolish as to hand over then power of taxation to the Lord-lieutenant—to leave their counties liable for any amount he or his Commissioners might
 995 l l l 996 l l
 Lord John Russell  would refer to a passage in the Report for the consideration of the House. In that passage a hope was expressed that early in the next Session his Majesty's Ministers would introduce some general and compulsory measure with reference to the distillation and use of ardent spirits. Without at all entering into the details of the Report, he had only to observe, that he, for one, could never be a party to any such measure.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  said, that as to the evidence of the Sub-Sheriffs to whom the hon. member for Sheffield had alluded, he believed that such a thing as a sober Sub-Sheriff was never heard of. He believed that no man could arrive at that dignity who was particularly sober. The hon. Gentleman begged that part of the Report might be read.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  said, that libels against public functionaries ought not to be prosecuted on slight grounds; but, above all, Government ought not to sanction such prosecutions in the cases of other parties where they were not prepared to take the responsibility.
 Mr. Hawes  was aware, that he was pursuing that which was an unusual course in opposing the printing of this Report; but it should be recollected, that it was not unanimously agreed to. He should not, on that account merely, have met the present Motion with any opposition, but the Report was certainly one of the most extraordinary which had ever been made. He felt, that the recommendations of this Report were opposed to the interests of his constituents, and were a most flagrant violation of private rights. It was under this conviction, that he felt it to be his duty to bring the Report under the consideration of the House, though he had been strongly urged not to take such a step. The consequence of some of the legislative and prospective remedies suggested in this Report would be, first to ruin the whole trade of the licensed victuallers, in which business no less than 100,000 persons were engaged. All those persons, if they continued to sell spirits, were to be called upon to enter into an engagement to sell nothing but spirits; spirit-shops were to be as open to the public as possible—to be kept as open as those shops in which wholesome food was sold; but the spirit dealers were not to be allowed to sell more than a quart or a pint. The Report recommended, that no spirits should be allowed to be imported into this country. What, then, he would ask, was to become of our West-India colonies? Again, it was suggested, that no spirits should hereafter be distilled but by chemists, &c., for purposes of medicine. There was a clause which proposed that beer should be brewed of a certain strength, and that the price should be defined—there was to be a reduction of duty on tea and coffee—there was to be a universal branch of education, to teach children the evils arising from spirits; and this was to be made a comfortable volume for the benefit of the public; and it was considered, that this would form a very valuable accompaniment to the Poor-law Report. In large towns the workmen were to be paid on the market days (so that they would in many instances he paid three times a week); no meetings of societies in the shape of benefit or relief societies were to be permitted in public-houses, or in places where intoxicating draughts were allowed. "But," said the hon. Gentle-
 965 Read Read
 Mr. Hawes  begged to inquire, whether the hon. Member applied the epithets "sinister interest," to him?
 Mr. Hawes  wished to put a question to the Chair. He did not find that this Committee had any power to make a Report to the House, but that they were merely authorised to report the minutes of evidence. He apprehended, therefore, that in presenting this Report, they were assuming a power to which they were not entitled.
 Mr. Baines  maintained, that the Report was not to be considered as pourtraying the opinions of those hon. Gentlemen who formed the Committee, because it did not contain their sentiments, but those only of the witnesses who were examined. If then there were anything preposterous in the Report, it must be attributed to the recommendations or suggestions thrown out by the witnesses, not by the Committee. The manner in which this Report had been received, was not respectful to that Committee, who had bestowed much time on the matter. The Report ought not to be thus treated with contempt. A more ungracious proceeding than that proposed
 967
 Mr. Littleton  said, he had no doubt that it would be, and he believed part of it would have been paid but the clergy waited for the result of same petitions presented to the House on the subject.
 Mr. Littleton , in moving the third reading of the Tithes (Ireland) Bill, begged to occupy the House for one minute, while he adverted to what had fallen, on a late occasion, from the right hon. member for the University of Cambridge, with respect to the efficiency of the Perpetuity Purchase Fund. The right hon. Gentleman here repeated the detailed statement which he had made on former occasions, on the various receipts and expenses of that fund; the general result of which was, that the income was altogether 91,033 l l l 971
 Mr. Littleton  said, he was sensible that the Government had exposed itself to the hostility of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr Shaw) by their opposition to those exclusive principles, of which the hon. Gentleman was the strenuous advocate; and he took credit, on behalf of the Government for having deserved his reproach.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that frequently as he had had occasion to trouble the House since his Majesty's Ministers had transformed the Bill which they had themselves introduced, into a measure inconsistent with, and violating every principle of that original Bill, he still could not suffer that last opportunity to pass without expressing
 983 984 985 l l l l l l s d Littleton 986 987 988
 Mr. Sinclair  said, that it would have been deemed unreasonable and unjust in any House of Commons, except the present, which claimed to itself the honour of being reformed, to have rudely interrupted one of the Representatives of the people, especially at the early hour of half-past eight, when endeavouring to discharge a solemn and important duty. He should not, however, be deterred from avowing, that, if this question were pressed to a division, he should vote against the present Bill, because its provisions were essentially changed since he supported it on its first introduction. He knew that such conduct would be unpopular, both in this House and in the country; but he should not shrink from acting according to his conscientious conviction. He had not objected to this amendment of the hon. member for Dublin, but had voted in its favour, because he had always maintained that the burthen of tithes devolved on the proprietor and not on the tenant, and he was desirous to accelerate the arrangement as much as possible by which this principle was practically carried into effect. But he felt that there was no security provided in this Bill for the three-fifths, which still continued to be the nominal patrimony of the Church. The appropriation was now declared to be an open question, and before many years elapsed, the whole would be absorbed by a faction, half Popish and half Dissenting, whom nothing, would satisfy but the destruction of the Protestant Church, and the subversion of the Protestant faith. He had, however, chiefly risen for the purpose of recording his deep and unfeigned regret at the system which his Majesty's Government had adopted in reference to the Church. He trusted that the few remarks which he intended to submit would be couched in the language of respectful remonst r 990 spectrum 991
 Mr. Sinclair  thought, that the remedy proposed by the Committee was altogether impracticable. He had been appointed upon that Committee, and had at an early period attended its sittings, but finding that it was not likely to be attended with any beneficial result, he thought it better to withdraw altogether from it.
 Mr. Warburton  hoped this case would not be made a precedent of, because it might be greatly abused, and might lead to the oppression of individuals. He was
 994
 Mr. Buckingham : He had certainly applied his language to the hon. Member, perhaps, but he had done so hypothetically.
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that however much he might admire the ingenuity of the hon. Gentleman in bringing forward his objections to the Report, he could not equally admire the candour evined in making the statements. Much as he knew and had heard of misrepresentation, he had never known it more plainly made use of in support of an argument than had been adopted on this occasion. [" Read Read 966
 Mr. Buckingham  brought up the Report of the Select Committee appointed to inquire into the causes and consequences of the increasing evil of drunkenness.
 Mr. John Young  in seconding the Amendment, wished to make a few observations in consequence of the great change made in the Bill by the Amendment, which the doubtful opposition, or rather the connivance of Government, had enabled the hon. and learned member for Dublin to carry in Committee. When it had been proposed on the 20th of February last, "that all compositions and commutations of tithe should entirely cease after the 1st of November next—that his Majesty should, after that period, be empowered to impose a land-tax, which should be redeemable, the charge to be collected from the occupying tenant, who should be entitled to deduct the same from his rent"—he, in common with those Gentlemen whom he usually acted with, had been induced to vote for the proposition, rather as a choice of evils, under very difficult circumstances, than as any thing  per se 980 981 982 "Not to wait upon necessity, And leave, themselves no choice of vantage ground, But rather meet the times where best they may, And Shape and fashion them as best they can."
 Mr. Brotherton  contended, that if the House adopted the recommendation of the Committee they would find that the happiness and best interests of the country would be greatly promoted. The evidence of the witnesses examined before the Committee went to prove the great distress which arose from the too prevalent practice of using ardent spirits, and the consequent pauperism, which it gave rise to. He admired, as every man must do, the great talents of the hon. and learned member for Dublin, but he could not help expressing his regret at finding that hon. and learned Gentleman allowing his talents to be misapplied in ridiculing a measure such as that under consideration. They were bound to be very cautious, but, above all, he thought they ought to take care, before they legislated for the punishment of crime, to remove the strongest incentives for its commission. He was by no means an advocate for coercion
 970
 Mr. Philip Howard  had also been a Member of that Committee, but not having been able to give a due attendance upon it, he did not think that he should have been justified in interfering with the drawing up of the Report. He must say, therefore, that he did not consider himself pledged by the Report. At one examination, to which he had alluded, Mr. Fearon, a very intelligent dealer in spirits had proved, that drunkenness had not increased, and that the habits of the lower classes in the metropolis had improved. He was therefore bound to say, not only that he was not pledged by the Report, but that the evidence, as far as he heard
 969
 Mr. Sheil  wished to know whether the expenses of the prosecution were paid out of the secret service money, or whether they were included in the Estimates?
 The Speaker  begged to assure the hon. Gentleman, that every Select Committee of the House was bound to make Reports. The complaint usually was, that Committees assumed an unwarrantable power in not making their Reports.
 Lord Althorp , in moving, that the report of the Committee of Supply be brought up, stated, in answer to a question put to him last night, and which he was then under the necessity of declaring his inability to reply to, that the expense of the prosecution of Mr. Cohen, the proprietor of the  Brighton Guardian
 Lord Sandon  thought the question was, whether there was anything in the Report which ought to induce them to deviate from the recommendation of the Committee as to its being printed. He had been a Member of that Committee; but he had the misfortune, from various circumstances, of being prevented from attending upon it. He found, however, that those parts of the Report which were looked upon as wild and visionary, were not the recommendations of the Committee, but merely contained the opinions of the witnesses examined. It was an easy matter to turn the Report of the Committee, or any Committee into ridicule, but the fact was, that the House could not judge of the merits of that Report until it was printed and laid upon the Table. But the printing was by no means a pledge (God forbid it should), that the House was to adopt it. But he thought that the refusal to print it would be a departure from the general usage, so great that it could not be justified unless under extraordinary circumstances. There might be, and undoubtedly was, much extravagance in certain portions of the evidence, but then there were other parts of the Report which contained much useful information. He implored the House, therefore, not to interfere with the recommendation of the Committee that the Report should be printed.
 Mr. Robert Wallace , in rising to present a Petition, availed himself of the opportunity to recall to the attention of the House the extraordinary circumstances which had occurred the day before, as to the delivery of letters beyond the number which Members were entitled to receive. It would be recollected he had stated his having received from Sir Francis Freeling a letter, stating distinctly, that it was contrary to law to deliver more than fifteen letters in one day, postage free, to any Member, and that there was no discretionary power vested in the Post-office authorities; this statement, it was attempted to insinuate, must have arisen out of some mistake, and could not be attributable to any intentional act of Sir Francis Freeling; but for this insinuation, and the levity with which the hon. member for Northampton seemed to treat the gross misconduct of the Post-office, he should not have thought of troubling the House with any such personal matter; but feeling it incumbent on him to remove every doubt as to the existence of the letter referred to, he had Seen it to be his duty to have it brought from amongst his papers, some of which had already been sent so far on their way to Scotland. Here was the original covered with mud and in tatters, from the effects of shipwreck last year; he would read it to the House. The hon. Member read as follows:—
 (Copy.) General Post-office, 16th April, 1833. Sir,—I considered it due to your application of the 28th ult. to submit the matter to his Grace the Postmaster-general, who has commanded me to inform you that, according to the legal construction of die Act of Parliament, a Member is not entitled to receive, on any one day, more than the limited number of letters. The law makes no allowance for the intervention of Sunday; and I regret, therefore, that this Department has no power to dispense with the postage charged upon the enclosed letters. I have the honour to be, Sir, Your obedient humble servant, (Signed) F. FREELING, Secretary. Robert Wallace, Esq., M.P., 29, Spring Gardens. 1002 1003
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  desired to know why his Majesty's Government did not at once sell those warehouses; they were anything but profitable to the Government, and he must be allowed to add, that individual owners of warehouses could not compete with the Executive of the country in a speculation of that nature, the more especially when those by whom it was carried on were content to lose. Upon the whole, therefore, it was both unfair and unwise in the Crown to have had anything to do with those warehouses.
 Lord Althorp  stated, that he meant to move Amendments to several parts of the Bill, the object of which was to enable Magistrates to permit the keeping open beer-houses at any hours they might think expedient, not earlier than four o'clock in the morning, nor later than eleven at night. This he did on the grounds stated by him when the Bill was last before the House. He also moved several verbal Amendments.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  approved of the Amendments which the noble Lord intended to propose, and thought that they would give satisfaction to the country.
 Mr. Warburton  would oppose the Amendment as unjust and iniquitous. It ought not to have been brought forward without notice.
 Mr. Tennyson  supported the Amendment. It quite met his views, and would prevent him from proposing certain clauses which he thought ought to be added to the Bill.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  said, that the Amendment was another attempt to make the condition of the poor one of increased hardship. Why make this a question of money instead of character? Was it not sufficient to have a certificate of honesty in favour of the man who wished to sell beer, but you must also invest him with the character of "respectability?" Did "the Reformed House" mean to declare that the power to pay a certain amount of rent was the test of respectability? He would advise them rather to believe in the existence of virtue in the midst of poverty; if they did not, they would teach a terrible lesson to the people. He knew men whom money could not purchase, who lived in 30 s
 Mr. John Stanley  supported the Amendment, which he thought would furnish a test of character.
 Mr. Potter  opposed the Amendment. The hon. Member for Lancashire had not treated the House courteously in proposing it without notice.
 Mr. Aglionby  strongly condemned the Amendment, and called upon the noble Chancellor of the Exchequer to come forward and declare his opinion with respect to it.
 Lord Althorp  said, he thought some test was necessary, and would vote for the Amendment, if pressed to a division.
 Sir Henry Willoughby  opposed the Amendment as unnecessary, as against the principle of the Bill and as effecting a change in it of which no fair notice bad been given.
 Mr. George Wood  would allow the clause to be altered so as to let it be the value and not the rating of the house.
 1008 l."
 Mr. Warburton  hoped that one of the Amendments made by their Lordships would not be agreed to. The House of Commons, in passing this Bill, inserted a clause, enacting that the Coroner's Court should be an open Court. In the House of Lords that clause had been struck out, upon a statement that the present state of
 1009
 Mr. Cripps  said, that when he first brought in this Bill he had divided the House against the Amendment of the hon. member for Bridport, which declared these Courts to be open Courts. He had subsequently made inquiries how the Coroners in different parts of the kingdom acted upon this point. He found that they almost universally considered their Court as an open Court. He, therefore, began to consider the Amendment of the hon. member for Bridport right and fair; and on bringing in the Bill in the present Session, he had introduced a clause declaring the Coroner's Court an open Court. The Bill had gone up to the Lords with that clause inserted in it; considerable debate had taken place thereon; and it was then stated by Lord Chief Justice Denman—himself the principal Coroner of England—and also by the Lord Chancellor, that there could be no doubt but it was an open Court. The former Attorney General had also given an opinion in accordance with that of those high legal authorities. The hon. and learned member for Dublin had also maintained the same opinion with great force and at great length. A doubt on the subject had arisen in consequence of an opinion given by Lord Chief Justice Tenterden on the Oldham case. The House of Lords was aware of that opinion; and it considered the opinion of Lord Tenterden as worth more than those which had recently been stated to it. Now, every Coroner who had been examined by the House of Commons' Committee had stated, that he considered his Court an open one; but that he held himself at liberty to dismiss any obnoxious person. The clause was, therefore, struck out by the Lords. He hoped, therefore, that after the investigation which had taken place, the House would agree to the Bill as it now stood.
 Mr. Tennyson  thought it would have been better to make this a declaratory, instead of an enacting clause. It would,
 1010
 Mr. Potter  said, that Mr. Farren, the Coroner, of Rochdale, had for many years exercised the power of excluding the public from his Court. The editor of one of the Manchester newspapers had determined to try the right. He was turned out of the Court, and he brought the question before the King's Bench. It was tried, he believed, before Lord Tenterden; and the Judge ruled, that the Coroner's Court was not an open Court. It was of the utmost importance, therefore, that the point should be settled. He could mention another circumstance of great importance connected with the jurisdiction of Coroner. Mr. Farren, whom he had already alluded to, and another Coroner in Lancashire, were in the habit of sending substitutes to act for them instead of holding inquests themselves. He knew a Coroner in the great town of Manchester to have sent his brother (a publican, the hon. Gentleman was understood to say) to hold an inquest in his place. Thus very inferior persons might be employed to discharge those important functions. Another very striking case would prove the necessity of having the Coroner's Court open. A child was burnt to death at Bury in the course of the spring. The Coroner being sent for, held an inquest, and a verdict of accidental death was returned. The neighbours, however, had some suspicions: an inquiry was set on foot, the body was disinterred, and it was found that the father had destroyed his own child by setting fire in some manner to the clothes in the cradle. From that day to this he absconded. These circumstances showed how important it was, that the Coroner's Court should be an open Court; and he hoped the House, even at the risk of losing the Bill, would restore the clause.
 Lord Althorp  said, he believed there was no real difference of opinion as to the propriety of the Coroner's Court being an open one; and, therefore, he could hardly conceive it possible that the Lords would not agree with that House when it stated its opinion, that this clause ought to be inserted. If he felt that, by agreeing to the Motion to dissent from the Lords' Amendment, the Bill could not be carried, he would not give it his support; but he thought, that the House ought certainly to state to the Lords, that it disagreed with their Amendment, because the case stated by the hon. member for Wigan, of a Coroner who did persevere in excluding the public from his Court, showed that some legislative interference was necessary. Having always supported the principle, that those Courts ought to be open Courts, he thought the best course he could pursue, in order to support that opinion, was to disagree with the Lords' Amendment, because he could not believe that in that case the Lords would insist upon their Amendment. If they did, the question must again come under the consideration of the House.
 Mr. John Stanley  said, that all communications which in such cases passed between the Magistrates of the country and the Home-office were usually considered strictly confidential. It had been stated last night, that the expenses of the prosecution in question had been defrayed by Government; and it was not a singular case, the same thing having taken place on several occasions before of great public importance, although not undertaken by the law officers of the Crown.
 Mr. John Stanley  said, there would be no objection to such a return as far as regarded the present prosecution.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  brought up a Clause to authorize the East-India Company to receive, warehouse, and manage East-India goods, the property of other persons, until the complete close of their commercial character.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  could not consent to the omission of the word to which exception had been taken, for he contended, that its retention was necessary to the object which Ministers had in view. He confessed it filled his mind with astonishment to hear it said, that the trade did not wish for the present clause: some of the dock companies might not desire it, but he was sure that the trade desired it most earnestly. As evidence of the fact, that so far from being considered prejudicial by the trade, it was much wished for by them, he would just mention, that a memorial had been forwarded to him, signed by no fewer than seventy persons, in support of the plan which the present clause was intended to carry into effect. The deputation which he received on the subject assured him, that if a clause of that nature were proposed by Government, and adopted by Parliament, it would give satisfaction, and be productive of the best effects upon trade. In the last year a clause was introduced to enable the East-India Company to receive in their warehouses, to manage, and to sell the property of private individuals till their assets could be wound up. It had been suggested to continue this system by permitting the warehouses of the Company to remain as dépôts for bonded goods, allowing that privilege to attach to the premises into whatever hands they might pass by sale or otherwise. It was urged by the memorialists, of whom he had just been speaking, that it would be an object of great importance to the trade to enjoy the temporary use of those buildings, for amongst many of them there existed a
 1006
 Mr. Hume  wished to know whether there would be any objection to lay on the table a return of the different sums of money which had been so applied?
 Mr. Hume  took that opportunity of putting a question relative to what was reported to have been said by the noble Lord (Althorp) in that House during his absence last night relative to the prosecution by the Sussex Magistrates of the editor of the  Brighton Guardian
 Mr. Crawford  brought up a clause for the purpose of giving effect to the benevolent intentions of the noble Lord (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) towards the lower classes of the community, by redu-
 1004 s d s
 Mr. Crawford  objected to the word
 1005
 Sir John Rae Reid  approved of the clause, declared it in his opinion to be of great consequence to the trade, and affirmed that many Members of the commercial body felt exceedingly thankful to the right hon. Gentleman opposite for having proposed the clause.
 Lord Althorp  said, it would be for the House to consider whether, under the present circumstances of the case, tea was one of those articles on which a reduction of duty should take place in preference to others where more substantial relief could be afforded. The hon. Gentleman proposed to reduce the duty on two classes of tea from 2 s d s pro tanto
 Mr. O'Connell  seconded the Amendment. At so late a period of the Session it was utterly impossible duly to consider so extensive a change in one of the most important constitutional tribunals of the country. It appeared to him to be extremely objectionable to allow the House of Lords to have anything to do in the first instance with the determination of what cases of alleged bribery in the election of Members of the House of Commons should be proceeded with. That decision should be exclusively retained by the House of Commons, and no communication upon the subject ought to be made to the other House until that House had arrived at a judgment upon the point. They ought no more to allow the House of Lords to have anything to do with originating a measure referring to the election of a member of the House of Commons, than they would allow the House of Lords to have anything to do with originating a pecuniary measure. He did not think that the tribunal proposed by the House of Lords was a good one. The proposition went to suppose that seven Members of the House of Commons, and five Members of the Lords could act together cordially on such a subject. Now, recollecting the proceedings on the Reform Bill, and recollecting the efforts which were then made, and made ineffectually, to get rid of the intermeddling of Peers at the elections of members of the House of Commons, he was at a loss to understand the kind of logic which would admit Peers to be members of a Court in the first instance to sit upon such subjects. At any rate it was a point of great importance, and ought to stand over until it could be deliberately considered. To the appointment of the judge of one of the Courts of Record to preside over the proposed tribunal, he had a great objection. He did not wish to see a Judge mingling legislative with his judicial functions. And with respect to evidence, a Judge would have his legal notions constantly outraged by having that kind of evidence brought before him to prove cases of bribery at elections which he would not listen to in one of the Courts of Westminster Hall. When it was also considered that a Judge so placed would have to enter into all the bustle and turbulence of a Committee-room, and would be subjected to the influence of all the bad passions of a
 1025
 Mr. O'Connell  felt it his duty to say, that the step taken by his Majesty was not only one of kindness and generosity, but also one of eminent utility to the landed proprietors of Ireland. He could state, from his experience as a professional man, that great difficulty was experienced in making out titles in consequence of the number of reversions vested in the Crown, arising out of a multitude of attainders. The proposed measure would place the landed proprietors of Ireland on the same footing as the landed proprietors of England. It had been anxiously expected, and would be received with gratitude by the landed interest of Ireland.
 Lord Althorp  said, that he had no objection to the principle of the Bill so far as it went; but he thought it inexpedient to introduce a Bill for the Relief of a certain portion of Dissenters from the Established Church to the exclusion of others. He could assure the House, that it was the intention of his Majesty's Government to introduce as early as possible in the next Session a measure of relief for Dissenters generally, with respect to marriages and other grievances under which they laboured.
 Mr. Hume  said, that after what had fallen from the noble Lord opposite as to the determination of the Government to relieve the Dissenters generally, and to place all upon an equal footing, he hoped the hon. member for Beverley would consent to postpone his measure for the present Session. He was quite sure that the statements just made by the noble Lord would prove most satisfactory to the country in general.
 Mr. Wilks  thought, that though time grievances under which the Dissenters laboured were severely felt, those of the Roman Catholics were of a pressing nature. As the law now stood, every Roman Catholic marriage contracted in England, unless legalized by a Protestant marriage also, was null; and the children, the fruit of that marriage, would be bastardized and unable to inherit property. Nay, more, under the new law the mother could be compelled to support the children. He hoped, therefore, that the hon. Gentleman would press the measure during the present Session.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought it of the utmost importance that the feelings of the Roman Catholics should be set at rest on this question. As far as the measure regarded the Irish Roman Catholics, he thought it of importance. In their own country they could be married by the Catholic priest, and the marriage was legal. In England they wished to be married in the same way; but no persuasion could induce them to legalize the marriage by calling in the aid of a Protestant clergyman. Thus a married woman, however respectable, and who had never done anything to violate the laws of society, might, at the end of eight or ten years, if her husband thought proper to select a younger or more pleasing partner, be left upon the parish with eight
 1027
 Dr. Lushington  said, it was in the power of the Roman Catholics themselves, to prevent the evil arising from their marriages in this way—let the Roman Catholic clergyman, for the next six months, refuse to celebrate any marriage between Roman Catholics, unless they produced to him a certificate of the marriage having been legalized by the act of the Protestant clergyman.
 Mr. O'Connell . The Catholic clergyman could not do any such thing; he dared not do it; he dared not oppose any impediment.
 Dr. Lushington  begged pardon; he was not aware of the clerical objection which existed. He therefore would join with the hon. and learned Gentleman in begging that the measure might be postponed for the present.
 Mr. Langdale  said, that after the appeal which had been made to him by the noble Lord, whose opinions he felt always bound to respect, he trusted the House would pardon him, while he made a few observations as to the motives which had induced him to bring in this Bill. The fact was, that he had undertaken it with the greatest repugnance, feeling that an individual so humble as himself was unfit to take charge of a measure of such importance. But when the House considered the pressing nature of the case, when they reflected that a dozen cases likely to cause bastardy occurred in a single day, they would, he was sure, see, that he had a right to persevere in the measure. It had been made a charge against him, that he was pressing this measure through the House against the wishes of the Roman Catholic clergy; but those who knew anything of him would acquit him of such a charge. He had the highest respect and honour for that body, and would be sorry to do anything contrary to their wishes or feelings. On the contrary, the moment the Bill was introduced, he sent copies of it to the two Roman Catholic Bishops, to all the leading Roman Catholic clergy, and to other persons whom he conceived felt an interest in the question: and although it was true that some objections had been raised on
 1028
 Mr. Tennyson  said, that in acceding to the wishes of the House, no blame could attach to the hon. Member, who had, with great zeal and talent, urged it forward to its present stage.
 Mr. Langdale  said, that under these circumstances, and after the promise of the noble Chancellor of the Exchequer, he would withdraw the Bill.
 Mr. Philip Howard , in consequence of what had fallen from the noble Lord, concurred in recommending the withdrawal of the Bill. It would be open to his hon. friend to introduce the measure next Session, should any Bill brought in by the noble Lord not come up to the wishes of his hon. friend.
 Mr. Harries  said, that if any change took place upon this subject it should originate with the Government; above all things no sacrifices should be made to any particular interest. Looking at the Bill as it stood, it could not answer the object proposed by the gallant Member. It was an imperfect piece of legislation, and as such it was objectionable.
 Mr. Halcombe  opposed the Bill, as liked to be ruinous to the boatmen of Deal and Dover, and moved, that the Bill be read a third time that day six months.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  was charged to present to the House a Petition, signed by no fewer than 1,648 of the resident inhabitants of Oxford. It stated that the revolting practice of corporeal punishment in the British army and navy, is derogatory to man, and in opposition to the mild spirit of Christianity; and that the case of Hutchinson, whose flesh was lately torn from his back at St. George's Barracks, Charing-cross, amid the noise of drums to drown his piteous cries, would persuade us that we were living in a nation of savages; for none but savages of the most ferocious character could witness unmoved the cruel torture of their fellow man; and it humbly prayed the House to take into its most serious consideration the necessity of immediately abolishing a practice that reflected equal disgrace on the man who received and the nation that
 1018
 Mr. Lennard  supported the proposition of Mr. Hume, and said, that he had introduced many foreigners into the body of the House, who had all concurred in deprecating the inconvenience to which the crowded state of the Benches nightly exposed hon. Members.
 Mr. Lennard  concurred with his hon. friend, that it would be advisable, altered and mutilated as the Bill now was, that the House should altogether reject it. The measure was completely spoiled by the other House; and those who had thus spoiled it ought to bear all the responsibility. He trusted that, as that House had so strongly expressed itself against the punishment of death, in one of the cases in which the Lords had retained the capital penalty, that capital penalty would not in those cases be enforced. It was only four years ago that the present Lord Chancellor, then Mr. Brougham, had, in the case of Sir James Mackintosh's Bill for doing away with the punishment of death for forgery, expressed the same opinion. "If, he said, the law, as it still stood, had little weight in public estimation before, then in what light was it likely to be looked on henceforward? If men's feelings rebelled against it before, would not their opinions and prepossessions be for ever rooted and confirmed by such a division of the House of Commons? Would it not operate practically on prosecutors, on witnesses, on jurors—aye, and on Judges themselves? Not six months ago had a Judge declared to him, in reference
 1033 Jus dicere, non jus dare
 Mr. O' Dwyer  thought that this was not a measure of sufficient importance to justify a collision with the House of Lords. There were other measures more important and more popular on which the Lords seemed disposed to prevent the people from exercising their rights.
 The Solicitor-General  said, that the greatest inconvenience was felt, owing to the want of one general system. This want of system was owing to particular enactments being passed at different times to meet particular cases. It was far better therefore, to have a general system and a general scale of punishments, which, however, could not be effected by partial legislation. The Bill, as amended, had still the advantage of removing the punishment of death from one offence, and he should therefore support it.
 Captain Gordon  said, that it was not constitutional, nor had it been the practice of that House, to examine into the reasons the Lords might have for rejecting a measure; and he did not see anything that required their doing so in the present instance. He hoped the noble Lord would not press his Motion to a division.
 Mr. Halcombe  contended, that the Motion of the noble Lord was a gross violation of the dearest liberties of Englishmen; and he should be surprised if, when it came before the public, the noble Paymaster of the Forces did not fall off in their opinion as a sound defender of their rights. All the ground which the noble Lord had advanced for the Motion was, that a gallant friend of his intended to bring forward another Bill affecting Warwick early next Session: but, even if the writ issued, any measure they thought proper could be brought forward next Session. He had read through the evidence on which they had passed the Bill; and he defied any man to say, that there were more than four clear cases of bribery established besides the cases of the ten men who voted against the candidate who bribed them; and even the four actually guilty were not 10 l 1043
 Mr. Mark Philips  said, that, having conscientiously voted for the Warwick disfranchisement, on what he thought good evidence, he could not at once stultify his former vote, merely because other parties had taken a different view of the case. The House was entitled to have an opportunity of considering the evidence which had induced the Lords to differ with them.
 Colonel Davies  concurred in the suggestion of the hon. member for Middlesex. There was not sufficient room for the accommodation of Members in the House. They could neither sit nor stand, and when so great numbers were present not one-half could hear the debate. He hoped, therefore, that the Ministers would take the subject into their serious consideration.
 Lord John Russell  rose, and said, that the Amendments which had been made by the Lords in this Bill were of so wide and extensive a character as almost to render it entirely a new measure. At the same time, he begged the House to consider the very inconvenient situation in which matters of this kind now stood: whether it was the fault of the House of Commons or Lords he would not pretend to say, but certainly the result was, that, after a very long, expensive, and vexatious inquiry with respect to the boroughs immediately in question, there seemed
 1020 1021 1022 1023
 Lord John Russell  did not conceive that the objection to the Bill founded upon the length and general character of the investigations before the Lords was at all conclusive against the measure. Hon. Members must be aware that no Bill could be passed without an inquiry if the Lords insisted upon it, and he did not see how that practice could be done away with. However, he believed the feeling then prevailing in that House was adverse to such a measure, that they were not prepared for so great a change, whatever might be its merits or demerits; for the present, therefore, he would not press forward the Bill.
 Lord John Russell  said, that, after what had fallen from the two right hon. Gentlemen opposite, he felt bound, in it few words, to restate the grounds on which he rested his Motion. He did not rest it upon general but upon peculiar grounds. The House of Lords had been occupied between eighty and ninety days
 1045
 Lord John Russell  said, that it was not his intention to occupy the time of the House respecting the Motion which he had to make. It used to be formerly the custom in that House concerning delinquent boroughs to withhold the issuing of writs to them as a punishment to those boroughs. It was not with that view, however, that he brought forward the present motion. But it was with the view of allowing time to prosecute those inquiries which had been begun so that they might be concluded before the writs should be issued. On that ground he meant to propose that the writs should not be issued till after the next Session of Parliament. The House was aware that Bills had been sent up to the Lords concerning Hertford, Carrickfergus, and Warwick. With respect to one of them—the borough of Warwick—a Bill had passed that House, and had been sent up to the House of Lords, which, after some inquiry, had been thrown out by the other House for the present Session. He did not intend to enter into the grounds upon which that Bill had been thrown out in the Upper House, nor into the nature of the evidence that led to that result. It was sufficient for him to state, that 115 witnesses had been examined, and that their evidence filled several hundred folio pages. He had not attended to the evidence that had been laid before either House; but as an hon. Baronet, one of the members for Nottingham, had informed him that he intended to bring forward next Session a measure respecting the borough of War-
 1036
 Lord John Russell  said, that though he should not have consented to the omission of the clause which had been struck out by the other House in the first instance, yet, as the Bill in its present shape saved the country from the necessity of condemning criminals to death in some cases to which the penalty of death was attached as the law now stood, he was glad to take the Bill as amended, in preference to losing it altogether. With regard to that portion of the Bill which had been left out, he would say, that he thought the punishment of death ought not to be affixed even to that crime. If the most extensive forgeries were not to be punished by death, he could see no reason why stealing a letter should be subject to such a penalty. If the hon. Member should propose a Bill next Session, for the purpose of removing the penalty of death from that crime, it should have its support; but it was not because this Bill did not effect that object, that, containing as it did a provision abolishing the punishment of death in another case, it should therefore be rejected. The time had arrived when some general measure relating to the criminal code was become necessary. In consequence of the exertions of Sir James Mackintosh, the experiment had been tried in reference to some crimes; and, having made that experiment, he thought it time to try it on
 1035
 Mr. Lynch  thought the House had the power of suspending a writ for a time, with a view to examine further evidence.
 Mr. Lynch  said, that the step taken by his Majesty would confer a great boon on Ireland, and thanked the Ministers for having advised it. The power which his Majesty expressed his willingness to give to proprietors of estates in Ireland would enable them to render titles more secure, and remove all obstacles and impediments in the way of the sale of landed property.
 Mr. Hawes  expressed a hope that, if a new House were not built, some improvements would be made immediately in the construction of the present House.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  was not surprised at the course pursued by the right hon. Gentleman, nor at his argument; for he was one of those who had opposed the Bill for the extension of the borough franchise. When, therefore, the right hon. Gentleman spoke of the borough of Warwick having been acquitted, he spoke of it as confirmatory of the opinion he had formerly held. But, having voted for the Bill, he did not consider that, by the rejection of it in the other House, the borough was acquitted. The borough of Warwick had been convicted in this House; and, though it might have been exculpated by the other House, that did not invalidate the judgment of this House,—it did not follow that the other House was right, and this House wrong. It was necessary to reconsider the question; and, for this purpose, time ought to be given, and an opportunity of examining the evidence, and of considering the grounds of the decision of the House of Lords. If this House were called upon to reverse its decision, let it be after fair and due consideration; and let not the House be required in a hurry to set aside its own deliberate judgment. He put it to the House whether such a course of proceeding was befitting its dignity? The House of Lords, on different evidence from that which had been taken in that House, and of which the Commons knew nothing, had come to a different conclusion from the House of Commons, which could not reverse its judgment without examining and considering that evidence. The right hon. Gentleman had said, that the House would act in an unconstitutional way, and unjustly towards the constituency of the country, by depriving any portions of that constituency of their Representatives. But the proposition was, that no writ should issue for this borough till the next Session of Parliament and what advantage would the constituency lose by having one Member less during the time Parliament was prorogued? Whilst the House was of opinion that the constituency of a certain borough was not in a fit state to return a Member to this House, it was
 1040
 Mr. Tower  thought it was quite impossible, consistently with their own dignity, to vote for the suspension of the writ.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that everybody now knew that the borough of Warwick was not disfranchised. A Bill to that effect had been sent up to the Lords, but had been rejected by them. To make the case stronger, their Lordships threw out the Bill without going into any evidence in favour of the borough. Was the noble Lord prepared to support the opinion, that no writ should ever issue for this borough?—for his Motion went that length. Was sending the Bill up to the Lords, and their rejecting of it, to be treated as a mere mockery by that House? They ought to bring forward some special case to justify this Motion. If, indeed, they could show that the Lords had not had sufficient evidence to form their decision, then would they have some ground for not consenting to that decision. But no such special case was assigned. If the House only considered the effect of this Motion, they would see that it would go to disfranchising the borough altogether. It was quite clear that, if the Motion were agreed to, a majority of that House might next Session agree to a Bill similar to the former, which would be sent up to the other House; and which, if rejected, would lead to a repetition of the present proceeding. In this way the borough would be excluded from returning Members, since its writ would be continually suspended.
 Mr. Shaw  also expressed his gratitude for the concession which his Majesty had been pleased to make to the proprietors of estates in Ireland. It would prove of the greatest benefit to the landed interest of that country.
 Mr. Goulburn  merely rose to express his dissent from the suggestion of Mr. Hume, in order that the noble Lord might not be induced erroneously to suppose that the call for a new House was unanimous. At a proper season he could urge many reasons, and strong reasons too, why the noble Lord should not embark in the task of building a new House of Commons.
 Mr. Goulburn  rose and assured the House, that he did not mean to enter largely into the various questions that had been agitated relative to the borough of Warwick. He would confine himself strictly to the question, whether it was or was not fit and proper that a writ should issue for that borough until the time specified in the noble Lord's Motion. He had not one word to say respecting the boroughs of Hertford and Carrickfergus, because they stood on an entirely different footing from the borough of Warwick, and because the House was consequently bound to pursue a very different course as regarded them, and as regarded that latter borough. It was the duty of that House, one which they owed to themselves and to the country, to keep their numbers as complete as possible; and it would be a great evil to the country, as well as to individual electors, that there should be boroughs allowed to remain without returning the usual number of Members they had a right to return. It certainly was the privilege of that House to interfere; but the gravest case alone could justify them in interfering to prevent boroughs from returning Members to serve in Parliament. Did any grave case exist with respect to the borough of Warwick? Did the noble Lord, who brought forward the present motion, state, that any such case did exist? No; the noble Lord made no such statement; he said nothing to induce
 1037 1038 1039
 Mr. Warburton  said, the House was bound to support its own verdict by suspending the writ. It was absurd to suppose that, on the mere authority of the Lords, the Commons would consent to act so absurd, so inconsistent a part, as that required from them by the right hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Warburton  agreed with the noble Lord in thinking that the Amendments made in this Bill were perfectly new, and it was perfectly necessary that they should have an opportunity of solemnly and deliberately considering them. It was clear, that if any justice was to be done to the public, if an opportunity was to be afforded of disfranchising a borough in which bribery prevailed, some new mode of conducting the process had become absolutely necessary. He considered, however, if those Amendments were agreed to, they must abandon not only all hope, but the very possibility of succeeding in such an attempt. He hoped, therefore, the noble Lord would not press the Motion at the present period of the Session. They could not consider deliberately the propositions which had been brought forward without going into Committee, and going through all the stages of a new measure. He would, therefore, with the noble Lord's leave, move that the Amendments be taken into further consideration that day six months.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that the seats in the House were so inconvenient and irksome that hon. Members could not sit upon them night after night without serious injury to their health. There were various reasons why the noble Lord ought to take into consideration the necessity of building a new House on a site where there might be a sufficient access of fresh air from all sides to keep it thoroughly ventilated.
 Mr. Benett  was surprised at finding hon. Gentlemen who were generally staunch friends of economy so eager to put the country to the expense of building a new House of Commons. The seats could not be very inconvenient, as he had seen in the course of his experience many Gentlemen sleeping very comfortably upon them. He was afraid, that if they were rendered less irksome, the only result would be that, what with easy seats and dullish speeches, the propensity of Members to sleep would be still further promoted.
 Mr. Benett  did not intend to throw any taunts on the hon. member for Middlesex; but he would not consent to the destruction of the House on account of the associations connected with it. When Gentlemen complained of their health being affected by it, he must say, that it appeared to him that it was not the shop, but the work that was done in the shop, that acted injuriously on their constitutions.
 Mr. Hardy  thought it would really be a matter of much importance to get rid of the long, tedious, and expensive investigations before the other House of Parliament antecedently to the disfranchisement of any borough. In his opinion, the suggestion which had been made, that so far as evidence was concerned, the decisions of the Legislature ought to be founded upon the Report of a Jury composed of five Peers and seven Commoners assisted by a Judge, was a suggestion well worthy the serious consideration of the House. After the best reflection which he could bestow upon the subject, he felt disposed to support the Amendment, and hoped that the noble Lord opposite would not press the Bill.
 Mr. Herries  thought the examination of the case was concluded, unless indeed they meant to establish the doctrine, that no such case should be concluded except as they chose. Although not directly advanced by the noble Lord who made the Motion, that doctrine lurked in the argument he advanced. It might have the support of a majority, but it would not stand the test of common sense. Those who supported that Motion should at least have stated what course it was intended to pursue; but all they had heard upon that head was, that the noble Lord, the Paymaster of the Forces, had had an intimation from a gallant friend that he intended to bring in a Bill upon the subject next Session. Could this mean more than that there was a resolution, by all possible means, to prevent the issuing of the writ? He could not help calling the attention of the House to a short passage in the judgment, for so he might call it, of the Lord Chancellor upon this case, as it appeared by the short-hand writer's notes to have been delivered. After stating very fully all the reasons which should make him wish, as an individual, to see the Bill pass, his Lordship expressed himself to this effect:—"The writ is suspended for the present, although I hope it will not long be suspended; for the House of Commons ought to issue the writ, in order to make its number complete." He agreed with the learned Chancellor, that they ought to make their number complete; and should therefore vote for the issuing of the writ.
 Mr. Hume  was surprised at the taunt which the hon. member for Wiltshire had cast upon him, for that hon. Member had long supported all measures of economy as well as he had, and might, therefore, suppose that he (Mr. Hume) would not be desirous of putting the people to the expense of building a new House of Commons unless it were absolutely necessary. He was convinced that the money so expended would be well laid out, and he had never objected to any grant of public money which was well laid out.
 Mr. Hume  concurred in opinion with the right hon. Gentleman who had last spoken, and thought that, without seeing the evidence adduced before the House of Lords, they ought not to undo their former decision upon this Bill. He was not a little surprised at the course pursued by the right hon. member for Cambridge; for the right hon. Gentleman was not often in the habit of manifesting any very strong degree of sympathy for the privileges of the people. It would be unfair to say, that the right hon. Gentleman was interested in the matter; and it might be equally unfair if he were to say, that he had seen an address from a Mr. Edward Goulburn (perhaps not a relative of the right hon. Gentleman), who was burning with anxiety to represent the borough of Warwick. He was only supposing a case, in order to show that different people might have different interests. He thought the best course of proceeding would be that of bringing forward a Motion for the production of the evidence taken before the House of Lords, in order to see if any new facts had been elicited to warrant the rejection of the Bill. If on the perusal it should appear, that the evidence taken before the House of Commons was not to be credited, then, of course, the writs would be suffered to issue. Surely justice and even respect to the House of Lords, as well as to themselves, should induce them to postpone the writs until after they should have had an opportunity of reading the evidence. He trusted the House would support its own decision until then.
 Mr. Hume  did not mean to offer any opposition to the grant, but he would avail himself of the opportunity to repeat his opinions upon the necessity of finding further accommodation for Members in that House. He complained of the dreadful manner in which hon. Members were crowded together on nights of interesting debates, and of the pestilential air which prevailed in the neighbourhood where he sat. Indeed, he was almost poisoned by it. It was hard to see barracks erecting here, and buildings there, and yet no fit edifice prepared for the accommodation of the Representatives of the people. Much of the disturbance and confusion which took place in the House, and which impeded the progress of public business, arose from the impatience of hon. Gentlemen who found it absolutely impossible to hear what occurred in the course of the debate. If the noble Lord would only change his position in the House and sit a few yards further down, he would find, that he would not be able to hear much of what was spoken in the upper part of the House. He thought that a fit House should be built forthwith, because the change in the constitution of the House which had been effected by the Reform Bill had caused many more Members to attend to the debates than were usually present in former Parliaments.
 Mr. Hume  said, that in a country so eminently naval, the question of the pilot duties and dues should be placed under one general system.
  Mr. Thomas Duncombe  thought, that no writ should issue for the borough of Warwick until they saw the evidence upon which the other House had come to the decision. He would vote for the Motion of the noble Lord, because the House was placed in a peculiar situation. Two noble Lords, members of his Majesty's Government,
 1042
 Mr. Ewart  rose to call the attention of the House to the Amendments made by the Lords in the Bill which had been sent up from this House. The Bill, as originally brought in, consisted of three parts. Capital Punishment was repealed by it; first, for letter stealing; next, for returning from transportation; and thirdly, for constructive burglary. At an advanced stage of the Bill the Attorney General obtained the rejection of that part which repealed the punishment of death for constructive burglary, and when it went up to the Lords they expunged that part which repealed capital punishment for letter-stealing. Now the latter provision was the most important part of the Bill, for no execution had taken place for returning from transportation for seven years; and his only object in introducing a provision on that subject had been to make the enactments accordant with the practice of the law. It would be perfectly illusory to pass a law of this kind, and he thought the House would best consult its dignity and its consistency by not passing the Bill in its present shape. However, he would be guided by the wish of the House.
 Mr. Ewart  concurred in the opinion of the hon. Member, and hoped that before next Session of Parliament some general plan would be devised for the regulation of this matter.
 Mr. Ewart  was certain, that in building a new and convenient place for their meeting the House would have the glad assent of the constituent body. There was another reform which he thought still
 1031
 Sir Thomas Troubridge  said, his object was to facilitate the putting pilots on board homeward-bound ships at Dungeness. He had consulted the Admiralty, the Trinity House, and other bodies interested in the subject, and this Bill had their entire sanction. In short, he should not be doing his duty if he did not advocate the interests of the boatmen of Deal, as
 1029
 Sir Francis Vincent  did not understand the hon. member for Bridport to contend that they were bound, under all circumstances, to refuse issuing the writ to Warwick; but simply that they should rehear the case ["No, no!"]. It came to the same thing: for the Bill, having been rejected, they had to reconsider it. At any rate, they would reconsider it. If, upon examination of further evidence, their opinion remained unchanged, it would be their duty to abide by their former verdict: but if, upon an examination of the evidence, they found reason to alter their opinion, of course they would not be bound to abide by a measure proved to be bad. He had great respect for the hereditary legislators; but he could not allow them to dictate to him what his opinions should be, and oblige him to change them without even seeing the grounds on which he was to do so.
 Sir George Murray  entreated the House to consider whether they were not about to establish an exceedingly dangerous precedent. The Motion of the noble Lord might take the popular side of the question, but that was a circumstance which ought to put them more upon their guard against it. The question was, whether they were to adopt the result of the argument of the hon. member for Bridport, viz. that the House of Lords should have
 1044
 Mr. Ward  said, that on a former occasion, when the hon. member for Middlesex had brought forward a distinct Motion on this subject, he voted against it because he thought it premature. But if the same Motion were brought forward in another Session, he should be inclined to support it, and he had no doubt, from the change which had taken place in the opinions of other Members also, that a different result from the last would be then produced.
 Sir Henry Willoughby  denied, that further investigation would be precluded by issuing a new writ for the borough of Warwick, or by the presence of a second Member for that borough in the House. He should certainly vote against the noble Lord's Motion.
 Mr. Rolfe  did not, of course, see that the decision of that House should be put
 1041
 Lord Althorp  said, the state of the question was this. The House had passed a Bill taking away the punishment of death in two cases, but the Lords had returned the Bill taking away capital punishment only in one case, in which, as the hon. Gentleman very properly said, it was very rarely inflicted. Undoubtedly it would be a great advantage to make the enactments of the law as nearly in accordance with the practice as possible. If a Bill had been brought in simply taking away the punishment of death for returning from transportation, he should have supported it, because it would have been accommodating the law to the practice. Now the question was, would the House reject this Bill because other provisions which they thought desirable had not been passed? It might be a great disappointment to Gentlemen who attached more value to those other provisions, and he would admit that they might be the most important provisions of the Bill; but he did not think that the House ought to reject that which was good because it could not get better. He hoped, there-
 1034
 Lord Althorp  said, that the subject which his hon. friend, the member for Middlesex, had brought forward, was one to which Government would feel bound to give its attention, if it were found to be the general wish of the House. He thought, however, that it was not right to discuss such a question, except when a large number of Members were in town and able to take part in the discussion.
 1030
 Lord Althorp  brought down the following message from his Majesty:—
 Lord Althorp , in rising to move "that an Address be presented to the King in answer to his gracious Message," begged to observe, that the step taken by his Majesty involved a considerable sacrifice on the part of the Crown. He considered it to be an act of great kindness and ge-
 1019
 Colonel Evans  presented a petition from the churchwardens, overseers, and parishioners of St. Martin's-in-the-Fields, against military flogging. He was of opinion that military flogging was not necessary to maintain the discipline of the army. He was not one of those philanthropists who viewed the question merely as a matter of cruelty inflicted on the offender, but he looked at it as a dishonour and degradation to the British army; and even granting the punishment to be abstractedly good, he contended that, in the present state of the public mind, it ought not to be continued. The French army was one of the most efficient in the world, and yet the practice of military flogging was not known in it. He had been told it was unwise to set up the French army as an example to those by whom they had been vanquished, but he would remind the House that the Roman army, which was the best disciplined that ever existed, carefully studied the custom and discipline of the various armies they overcame. Our troops were certainly much more civilized than the Russian boors, but even in that army the practice of flogging was much less frequently resorted to than it was in our own. It was well known that no soldiers were more attached to the service than the Russians, and that desertion was rarely known to occur. He was of opinion a substitute might be found, but that substitute must be a severe one to maintain the discipline
 1103
 Mr. Tennyson  said, he had been intrusted with a similar petition from some of the inhabitants of Westminster, and he would take that opportunity to present it, that both petitions might be disposed of at the same time. The hon. Member expressed the deep abhorrence the petitioners entertained of the practice of military flogging,
 1104
 Mr. Ashley Cooper  stated, as far as his own military experience went, he could say, that corporal punishment was more frequently administered for stealing necessaries, which was the most general offence in the army, than for any other crime.
 Captain Gordon  would be glad to see any punishment proposed that would meet his views as a substitute for corporal punishment, but until that was done, he could not consent to the entire abolition of the practice.
 Mr. Ruthven  was persuaded, that the crimes which took place in the army were all the consequence of the prevalence of drunkenness. If the soldier were deprived of the means of getting drunk, crime would be diminished, and the punishment of flogging rendered unnecessary.
 Colonel Williams  said, so far as his experience, which was nearly half a century old, went, he would say that it was impossible to do away with flogging altogether, although he had always deprecated the frequent use of the practice. It was a punishment which ought always to hang over the heads of incorrigible villains. He was satisfied, moreover, it was rendered necessary by the prevalence of drunkenness, which was the principal cause of the crimes which were committed, and that it could not be abolished until intoxication was put an end to.
 Colonel Evans  was perfectly satisfied with the speech of the right hon. Secretary at War, and stated, that separate Acts of Parliament for war and peace might be passed if necessary.
 Mr. T. Attwood  considered the Appropriation Bill the most important measure in the Session, and yet it had been usual to pass it through the House literally in the twinkling of an eye. He was not disposed now to trouble them with any kind of remarks, but as several little matters had already been occupying their attention, he thought he might as well ask of the noble Lord one little question. He wished to know whether the foreign honour of this country was in safe keeping. He had lately paid some little attention to foreign affairs, and his opinion sincerely was, that England had every year been sinking deeper and deeper in political degradation. He did not particularly allude to the state of affairs in the Peninsula, but generally to Holland, Turkey, and Russia. Russia had been for a long period encroaching on England, and daily and hourly insulting her; and he wished in good faith and sincerity to ask the noble Lord whether, when all these immense resources were placed at the disposal of Government, their object was to purchase the degradation of England? If the effect would be to support the foreign honour of the nation, he should be quite content, although it was at the expense of domestic misery. He had no objection to their
 1112
 Lord Althorp  was happy to be able to give the hon. Member the assurance that the honour of Great Britain was supported abroad, and that it had sustained no detriment.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know in what manner the sum of 100,000 l.
 Mr. Littleton  said, that the 100,000 l.
 Mr. Shaw  observed, that the whole measure of the Irish Tithe Bill was a gross delusion; and that any expectation of ever recovering the money which was to be advanced to carry the Bill into effect, was entirely fallacious.
 Mr. Littleton  expressed his firm conviction that the result would, in all respects disappoint the hon. and learned Gentleman's expectations. But if it should not be so,—if it should turn out that some sacrifice was necessary,—it must be recollected that that sacrifice was for the pacification of an entire country. The measure was one to which the Protestant clergy of Ireland were looking with hope and confidence. Among other representations on the subject, he had received a communication from the whole of the Protestant clergy of the diocese of Dromore, declaring, that if the Irish Tithe Bill were not to pass into a law, they should regard the consequences with the utmost apprehension and alarm.
 Mr. Shaw  maintained, that so far from giving satisfaction in Ireland, the Bill had occasioned entire dissatisfaction: he could pledge himself, on his honour as a gentleman, to prove from the clearest materials that four-fifths of the clergy of Ireland were decidedly hostile to it. And not only was he enabled to affirm that such was the opinion of the clergy, but that the opinion of the laity fully coincided with theirs. He might be allowed to say, that he represented the clergy and the gentry of Ireland. Surely hon. Members did not suppose that he meant to say, that his opinions represented the great body of the educated class throughout Ireland; he had not the slightest idea of saying anything more, than that the constituency which he had the honour to represent was composed of the clergy and the gentry of Ireland. The University of Dublin had 2,500 electors, and they all belonged to the classes of the clergy or the gentry. He was, therefore, in communication with those. He believed he had a larger correspondence with Ireland than any Member of that House; and he thought himself fully warranted in affirming that the opinion of the majority ran decidedly in opposition to the tithe measure which had been introduced by his Majesty's Government.
 Mr. Secretary Rice  observed, that the hon. and learned Gentleman, to be assured of that fact, must have had communications with twelve or thirteen hundred persons. He congratulated his noble friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, on the great increase of the Post-office revenue, which that circumstance must have occasioned. From what he knew of Ireland, however, he must deny the hon. and learned Gentleman's conclusion. If ever there was a measure which was considered to be for the good of the Protestant Church and the Protestant laity in Ireland, it was the Irish Tithe Bill. He should like to know, to what kind of representations, and what kind of incitements, the 1,200 letters received by the hon. and learned Gentleman were replies. He trusted that the prophecies of the hon. and learned Gentleman on this subject would prove as fallacious as all his former prophecies. Nobody could for a moment believe, that the Protestant clergy of Ireland would experience the inconveniences in their transactions with the landlords of Ireland, who were also chiefly Protestants,
 1114
 Mr. Ruthven  agreed with the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, that if some such Bill as the Irish Tithe Bill were not adopted, there would be an end to the Protestant establishment in Ireland. He believed, that by the adoption of that measure, the Protestant clergy of Ireland would be placed in a much better situation than they had ever been before. He considered it a great advantage to them, and that it would save them from utter destruction.
 Colonel O'Grady  was in constant communication with his constituents, and he was happy to say, that out of all the clergy who resided in the county which he had the honour to represent, he had not received a single letter against the Bill. He understood, also, that all the gentlemen of the Grand Juries of Cork, Limerick, and Kerry, concurred in entertaining a favourable opinion of the Bill. He trusted
 1115
 Mr. Lefroy  was satisfied, whatever certain persons might have communicated to the right hon. Secretary for Ireland, that the great body of the laity would never join the conspirators in their endeavours to overturn the Church of that country.
 Mr. Hume  said, those persons were greatly mistaken who supposed that the clergy of Ireland would be dissatisfied with this Bill. If the Bill did not pass, what would they do—what would become of them? For his own part he almost wished it would not pass, and then they would see in another year how different a shape the Church question would assume. The present measure was, undoubtedly, one of great liberality, and if defeated, would never be followed up by anything half so advantageous to the Church. The hon. and learned Recorder of Dublin (Mr. Shaw) would surely not allege that the clergy were indifferent to the peculiarity of their present situation, or that they did not know their own interest. If they did not choose to take what was now offered, he (Mr. Hume) would tell him that they might go without, for that House, he was satisfied, would vote them no more English money. Therefore, let them take that or none. That was the understanding, and it must be abided by. But what they had done he contended was wrong—it was wrong to vote 100,000 l. 1116 1117 l. l. 1118 l., l.
 Lord Althorp  would not attempt to follow the hon. member for Middlesex through all the details of his speech, but would make one or two observations on the main points which he had brought under the consideration of the House. As
 1119 1120
 Mr. Pryme  trusted, that a satisfactory
 1121
 Mr. William Peter  agreed with the hon. members for Cambridge, and Middlesex, as to the necessity of settling the two great questions of English Tithe Commutation, and of Corporation Reform without delay. The people were most anxious on those subjects; and he trusted that they would not be postponed beyond another Session. With respect to the question more immediately before the House,—the Consolidated Fund Appropriation Bill; he concurred with the hon. member for Middlesex, in thinking that the mode, by which it was proposed, to supply the deficiency of the rent charges by payments out of the Consolidated Fund, was not altogether free from objections. Still the objections were greatly out-weighed by the arguments on the other side, by the probable, or, as he should rather say, by the sure and lasting benefits which must result from the measure. The hon. Member had said, that the money advanced from the Consolidated Fund, would never be repaid. Well, for the sake of argument, suppose such were to be the case; even then he (Mr. Peter) would maintain that the good of the plan greatly preponderated over the evil, that the money was judiciously laid out, was wisely, and advantageously applied. Better, ten thousand times better, that the sum should be expended in peace than in war; better, ten thousand times, that it should go in deeds of conciliation and kindness, than in deeds of violence, and bloodshed, and oppression, than in compelling hollow truces, and reluctant obedience by means of reinforced armies, and renewed coercion Acts! Admitting, then, that the money to be advanced, were never repaid, still he would contend, that this country would be a gainer, even in a pecuniary point of view. But why should this be the case? Why should the money be not repaid? Parliament had the means of repayment within its own power. Should the Perpetuity Purchase Fund; should the funds in the hands of the ecclesiastical commissioners be inadequate, still there were means, ample means, within the reach of Parliament. Let the Consolidated Fund be reimbursed out of the surplus revenue of the Irish Church as soon as that surplus
 1122 1123 l. l., 1124 l. l.,
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  was surprised at the pertinacity with which the Irish Tithe Bill had been opposed, as he considered it likely to be of great advantage to the tithe-owners. But he considered that the interests of the clergy were secondary, as compared to those of the farmer. The farmers, or peasantry of Ireland, were, however, all ruined, and considering that their rights were quite as sacred as those of the clergy, or, he might say, much more sacred, they had a stronger claim than the clergy on that House for protection. But he regretted to say, that the most useful classes, in the community, found neither commiseration nor relief.
 Mr. Ewart  suggested, that the indirect taxation of the country should be apportioned on the various classes of the community, in a manner more approaching to the  ad valorem, ad valorem
 Mr. Richard Potter  hoped, that the circumstance of the Dissenters not having pressed their claims this Session, would not be against them; but that the Government would feel itself bound to place the redress of their grievances among the foremost of its measures.
 Mr. Warburton  trusted, that the Government would, early next Session, propose the abolition of all taxes on knowledge,—printing, pamphlets, newspapers, ["malt."] No, no; he would say nothing about malt at present. With regard to these taxes on knowledge, their effect was, to transfer the instruction of the humble classes to persons destitute of moral character, who scrupled not to infringe the law, and mislead the people.
 Mr. Baines  said, that a general system of education should be adopted, so as to diffuse useful knowledge throughout the country.
 Colonel Peel  was of opinion, that much delusion prevailed on the subject of solitary confinement. He was persuaded, from fifteen years experience, that it would be inefficacious as a substitute for flogging. He was well acquainted with an instance
 1108
 Sir John Byng  said, nothing was more calculated to insure a fair consideration of the question, and the hope of an entire abolition of the practice of flogging, than the temperate tone in which the subject had been discussed. He was far from finding fault with those individuals who petitioned the House on this subject, feeling satisfied that they were actuated by the most humane and generous motives; he was only desirous to observe that those were much mistaken, and knew very little of the character of British officers, who supposed they were opposed to the abolition of this punishment from any other motive than a wish to uphold the discipline of the army. He was free to admit, that public opinion had now advanced to that stage that some alteration must take place. Nothing was more difficult, in his opinion, than to find a substitute for flogging. He believed, that no substitute would be so good as that of solitary confinement, but even that was liable to many objections. It could not be adopted when the army was on active service or on march. Then with respect to mulcting a soldier of his pay, he thought, such a mode of punishment likely to lead to the most serious consequences, as there was no question on which a soldier looked with greater delicacy. Every substitute was liable to many objections, and, therefore, the wisest course would be to let the question be fairly and fully investigated by the commission which was about to issue. He suggested that, if the commission should be composed of any individuals who were not military men, the present and the late right hon. Secretaries at War should be among the number. He knew there was no Member of that House more averse to military flogging than the right hon. member for Nottingham (Sir J. Hobhouse), and that, whether in office or out of office he had done all in his power to put an end to it. For his own part he believed, from the
 1105
 Mr. Craven Berkeley  said, the case of Hutchinson had been much misrepresented, and he thought it much better for those individuals who wished to see the practice abolished to say no more on the subject, as it would only tend to prejudice their case.
 Sir Edward Barnes  said, if he saw any one system of punishment brought forward as a substitute for military flogging, it should have his support. The suggestions with respect to solitary confinement, and other substitutes, he considered liable to great objections or quite impracticable, and he could not consent to the abolition of corporal punishment until some more effective substitute was suggested.
 Colonel Leith Hay  thought it necessary to observe, that steps had been taken to afford the means of increasing the punishment of solitary confinement in the army. A report had been made to the Board of Ordinance in the year 1831, from certain persons appointed to inquire into the extent to which solitary confinement could be adopted in the army. That Report stated, that 102 cells would be equal to all that was required for the whole of the military. In conformity with that Report ninety-eight cells had been completed at the different barracks. With regard to the conduct of Colonel Bowater, he would remark, that it was not in the power of Colonel Bowater to alter the punishment awarded. The offender could not have been taken before any other tribunal, drunkenness and mutiny being cognizable only by a district Court-martial, and not a regimental Court-martial, except under circumstances of a very peculiar nature. As the offence, therefore, was one which could only be tried by a district Court-martial, and as Colonel Bowater did not possess the power to diminish one stroke of the sentence awarded by it, no possible blame could attach to that gallant officer.
 Mr. Ellice  came down to the House on the present occasion rather to hear the observations that might be offered on this most important question than to offer any of his own, and he felt pleasure in saying, that nothing could more conduce to promote a satisfactory adjustment of the subject, difficult and embarrassing as it was, than the tone and temper with which it had been treated by every Member who had addressed the House. He was desirous, in the first instance, to correct a misstatement he had made to the House on a former occasion, not from any fault of his own, but arising out of the error of others, who misunderstood the nature of the return to which he referred. When he last addressed the House on this question, he stated, that the officers who made out the return for the last year, had informed him, that one-fifth of the British army had passed through the different gaols of the country. The officers by whom the return was made, calculated the proportion only upon the number of persons serving in the army in England, without including the garrisons in Ireland. When the proportion, therefore, was computed upon the whole army, both in England and Ireland, it was found not to amount to more than half the amount of what he originally stated. But even that result showed a frightful increase of crime. With respect to the gallant officer (Colonel Bowater) whose conduct had been the subject of so much animadversion, he felt it was only doing justice to that gallant Officer to say, that he had no more power to diminish or mitigate the sentence passed upon private Hutchinson, than any Member of that house; it was only his duty to see it carried into full effect. He had been asked by several hon. Members of what class of individuals the commission would be composed. When he stated that a commission should be appointed,
 1109 1110 1111
 Mr. Buckingham  said, the army and the navy, it was well known, contained many inferior men, and what was the reason? Why, when men had been found unfit for anything else, it was said, "Oh, they are quite good enough for the army and navy." It was not to be wondered at, therefore, that so much insubordination and crime prevailed in the army; and so would they continue to prevail as long as the army was supplied with bad men. To render the army effective, and to make punishment unnecessary, an inducement should be supplied for better men to enlist. For his own part he believed, that drunkenness was the principal cause of the crimes and insubordination that existed in the army. He recommended that the higher offices of the army should be open to every man who entered it, and that they should be attained by those who exhibited good con-
 1106
 Mr. Wilks  said, that when the brave and gallant Admiral had fainted at the sight of a military flogging, there was some foundation for the sympathy of the people of England. He trusted, that the statements which had been made to-day would be satisfactory to the public. The feelings of humanity could not much longer be outraged by the infliction of corporal punishment, the result of which had been rather to increase than diminish crime. He agreed with the hon. member for Sheffield, that they must endeavour to introduce into the army and navy a superior body of men instead of the refuse of the gaol and the workhouse, and encourage good conduct and honourable ambition, by the prospect of rising to the highest station.
 Mr. Hume  said, he had no such apprehensions as the hon. member for Birmingham; but his objection was, that this had been a private transaction, although there was an Act of Parliament to prevent a Chancellor of the Exchequer from borrowing privately. If the Chancellor of the Exchequer required three millions and a half to pay off a certain portion of the Bank debt, lie ought to have afforded a public opportunity to all parties. to come forward with their offers. He had seen it stated, that there had been a breach of confidence with regard to the annuities; he would only observe at present that if any one body, public or private, had had an opportunity of benefitting themselves to the full extent which the public at large ought to have benefitted, it was highly improper. In the next place, some explanation should be given respecting the terms of the annuities, as they had generally been considered a ruinous system beyond a certain point.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  said, that in his opinion, this Bill would provide the Bank of England with the means of playing with the national finances. He hoped that
 1126
 Sir Edward Codrington  congratulated the House on the altered tone in which this subject was debated, and that the argument did not proceed upon the supposition that naval and military men felt a pleasure in the exercise of the power of administering the lash. He could only say, when it had been his painful duty to witness a flogging he had nearly fainted, though nothing else had ever caused him to faint in the whole course of his life. Those persons who taunted British officers with a delight in the exercise of the power of flogging knew very little of the subject, or of the character of those who had the command of the navy. When he had the power in his own hands, he should have been very glad to have got rid of it, or to have delegated it to some other person. He should be glad to see the practice abolished, if a substitute could be found to maintain the discipline of the army; but until that substitute could be found, the power should be retained, no less in behalf of the good soldier than the bad. The practice of flogging was continually resorted to by the civil magistrate—it took place under their own eye—and yet no complaint was ever made against the Magistrate for awarding such a punishment. So long, therefore, as it was made use of in one part of the public service, why should it not in another?
 Sir Thomas Troubridge  was of opinion that, at least, much good would be done by the discussion. He thought the public would feel assured that the subject was seriously taken up by the Government, while the commission which was about to issue would be productive of general satisfaction.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  contended, that military flogging was not necessary to maintain the discipline of the army, as was proved by the 3rd regiment of guards in which no flogging took place. During
 1107
 Lord Althorp  said, that his hon. friend laboured under a mistake. With respect to his making a bargain with the Bank, without going into the money-market and raising a loan, he had done so because the effect of going into the market and making a loan would have been to throw the money-market into confusion, and he believed he had made as good a bargain for the public as he should have done had he raised a loan, whilst he saved the market from a great injury. With regard to the annuities, he was not sorry that the hon. Gentleman had mentioned the subject, as he wished to give some explanation respecting them. There were two classes of annuities—life interests and annuities for terms of years. With regard to the former, they were not so disadvantageous to the public as had been generally supposed. It was, indeed suspected that certain annuities had been purchased upon lives at the older ages, and that the parties so purchasing hall gained an advantage over the Government. Inquiries had been made, and it was believed that this advantage had been
 1127 l. l. l.; l.; l., l. l.; l.; l. l. 1128 
 
 In 1840 £.200,000 
 1860 1,200,000 
 1867 590,000 l., l.
 Lord Althorp  said, he did not believe that any ill effects would ensue from the payment of this portion of the debt, which was due to the Bank of England.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, he had great pleasure in seconding the Motion of his hon. friend, although he feared that much reliance must not be placed on the accuracy of the return to one part of it, the Committee clerks not always taking down the names of every Member present at the meetings of a Committee. One part of the Motion he thought highly necessary; the House, and the country, ought to know the expense attending each special Committee. Two such Committees had been appointed this Session, on matters which immediately concerned two individual Members of the House, and the expense attending the inquiries before these Committees would, he understood, amount to very considerable sums. He alluded to the Committee on the Calcutta Journal, and the Committee on the Inns of Court, in granting which, he really thought, the House should have stipulated that the parties immediately interested, and not the public, should bear the attendant expense.
 Lord Granville Somerset  defended the proceedings of the Committee to which reference had been made, and thought that the conclusion to which that Committee had conic was a correct one. Bad as the conduct of Committees now might be, and he certainly did not defend it, the mode of conducting business before Committees at present, was greatly superior to the practice formerly.
 Lord John Russell  said, he had no objection to the Motion, but thought that it would be difficult, if not impossible, to comply with some parts, especially those regarding the Members attending the Committees, and how long they attended. [Mr.  Sinclair 1131
 Mr. Hawes  bore testimony to the belief in this fiction, and the prevalence of the belief was such, as he knew, from considerable intercourse with his constituents, that it threw very considerable discredit on the proceedings of Committees on private Bills in particular—discredit that ought not to attach to them. He was therefore very glad that this opportunity had been taken to disabuse the public mind on this subject.
 Mr. Littleton  thought that some amendment in the drawing up the minutes of the Committees might be usefully introduced. Minutes might be made of the Members attending Committees, especially of the names of Members present when divisions took place, or when resolutions or reports were adopted. He admitted the justice of many of the remarks made respecting the conduct in Committees on private Bills; still he thought with the noble Lord, the member for Monmouthshire, that those who remembered what conduct was pursued in those Committees some years ago, must admit that a very considerable improvement had been introduced into them. Heretofore the practice was, that all Members who attended "had voices;" so that it was not unusual for crowds to attend and vote on any particular measure who knew nothing of its merits derivable from the evidence adduced; but that abuse had been considerably remedied by the present mode of constituting the Committees by county lists.
 Mr. Sinclair,  pursuant to notice, rose to bring forward his Motion "that there be laid before this House, a list of all the public Committees appointed during the present Session; the number of days on which they sat; the number of hours during each day; number of Members who attended at each meeting; the number of witnesses examined, and the sum awarded to each witness for expenses; the expense incurred in printing the minutes for the use of the Members, and afterwards for that of the House; the allowances to short-hand writers, Committee clerks, and all other incidental expenses; together with a list of the Members of each Committee; also, an alphabetical list of all such Members as have belonged to one or more of the said public Committees, stating in separate columns the number of days on which each of the said Committees met, and the number of times on which each of the said Members was present during its proceedings; as far as the same can be made out." He considered that it was absolutely requisite to adopt some remedy to meet
 1129 l l
 Mr. Aglionby  conceived that the return would be useful, particularly as he thought that the time of the House which was the time of the public, had been wasted by laborious and unnecessary inquiries.
 Mr. Bernal  must also admit, that the previous conduct respecting these Committees on private Bills was of the most abominable character, as there was carried on a system of the most censurable canvassing. Members would attend the Committee rooms by scores for the purpose of voting only, in subservience to that system of canvassing; and from the frequency and notoriety of the practice, they would think themselves justified in the course they pursued. This eagerness to rush to different Committees, had led to the very general belief that Members received ten guineas for each Committee, and for each time that they attended it. He could not account for the prevalence of so erroneous an opinion; certain it was, that the belief was very general.
 Mr. Potter  also knew of the prevalence
 1132 l s
 Mr. Ward  observed that the management of private Committees in particular, required amendment, in order to prevent that canvassing for votes which now took place. He admitted, that the proceedings in Committees on private Bills were not
 1130
 Lord Althorp  rose for the purpose of shortly calling the attention of the House to the general nature of those Amendments which in its passage through the Lords had been made in this Bill, and at the same time of stating the impression which they had produced on his own mind with respect to the provisions and efficiency of the measure itself. A considerable number of Amendments had been introduced, and
 1208 l l l l 1209 1210 1211
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  rose to move as an Amendment, that the Lords' Amendments be taken into further consideration upon that day three months.
 The Speaker  suggested that, as the Amendments were numerous and, as he conceived, important, it would be most advisable, and the hon. Member would best conform to the usages of the House, if he were to take them one by one, rather than object to them altogether.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, that, having been opposed to the whole Bill from its first introduction, and his aversion to the measure having increased in its progress, his objections attached equally to the whole of the Amendments, and he, therefore, intended to take the sense of the House upon them, in the first instance, collectively. He trusted, that the House would concur with him in their rejection; but if, on the contrary, they should determine to take them into consideration, he should then offer objections to them
 1212 seriatim
 The Speaker  reminded the hon. Member that he was travelling out of the question; what he was advancing did not apply to the subject matter of any one of the Amendments before the House. The hon. Member might move  seriatim
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  meant his Motion to apply to the whole of the Amendments; and, in the remarks he was making, was only laying some ground for his Motion, which he submitted it was his undoubted right to do.
 The Speaker  said, that it not being now within the power of the House to amend the Bill, but only to adopt, or reject the
 1213
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  had frequently pursued, without interruption, the course he was then taking, and could not conceive it necessary that he should abstain from all comment or observation and confine himself simply to making his Motion, but, if so, he was willing to adopt that course, and, foregoing all argument, submit his Motion, his object being, as he avowed, to get rid of the Bill altogether for the present Session.
 The Speaker  said, the hon. Member was certainly at full liberty to make any statement he pleased in support of his Motion, provided it had reference to the question before the House, which related exclusively to the Lords' Amendments in the Bill.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  would, then, read a passage from the petition of his constituents on the subject of out-door relief, on which subject he had thought the Bill was far too harsh, before it left that House, but it was rendered still more severe by the Amendments made elsewhere. The petitioners stated, "that to refuse relief to able-bodied persons in all cases without setting them on work would, in many instances, be found not only impolitic but impracticable, especially in large towns where great numbers of industrious workmen were suddenly thrown out of employment from temporary causes; and nothing could more tend to degrade the industrious artisan to the level of the indolent and dissolute, than were he to be compelled, when standing in need of temporary assistance from the failure of employment, to sell off all his little furniture, the produce of his early industry, and become, with his family, the inmate of a workhouse." His next allusion must be to the Amendments in what were called the Bastardy Clauses, by which the parishes of Oxford were likely to be most seriously affected, for, as might be supposed, the number of seductions in that city was unavoidably great—[ laughter 1214 An Hon. Member 1215
 Major Beauclerk  said, that when he came into that House, he undertook to protect the property of the constituency of the great county which returned him to Parliament, and having resolved to redeem that pledge, he should vote against the Bill. The Amendments then before them were an insult to that small portion of good feeling towards the Dissenters which existed in that House. It was degrading and insulting towards the Dissenting minister to deny him the right which had been created under the Bill in its original form; he should, therefore, very cordially second the proposition for throwing out the Amendments altogether. Not that he much objected to the Amendments themselves—one or two of them he thought wise and well conceived, but he desired to see them all got rid of, for the sake of getting rid of the measure itself. The people of England had no notion of the blow which it struck at their property, and he felt it a duty he owed to his constituents to oppose the Bill in every form—considering it, as he did, destructive of the institutions of the country and the rights of property.
 Mr. Cobbett  agreed with the Amendment, and defied the noble Lord opposite to show any one argument why the postponement ought not to take place. The Bill since it had gone to the other House
 1216
 Sir Samuel Whalley  supported the Amendment of the hon. member for
 1217 l
 Mr. Langdale  said, that in voting for the original Motion, that the Amendments of the Lords be taken into consideration, he wished it to be understood that he did not mean thereby to pledge himself to approve of them all. There was one clause which had been omitted by the Lords, with respect to which it was his intention to divide the House.
 Mr. Richards  observed, that the Bill was originally introduced with the professed object of remedying the abuses which it was admitted on all hands existed in the administration of the Poor-laws; and though the measure proposed to vest the Commissioners with extraordinary powers, he had felt it his duty to vote for it, because he believed the case to be one which called for the application of extraordinary powers. Still he desired it to be understood, that he had supported the measure in the perfect confidence, that it was the intention of Government solely to correct the mal-administration of the Poor-laws. But after the statement which was reported (and he believed correctly reported) to have been made in another place by a person high in his Majesty's Government, who went the full length of
 1218
 Lord Althorp  said, that the hon. Gentleman totally misrepresented the object which he (Lord Althorp) had in view in introducing the present measure, when he said, that it had been brought in with the intention of ultimately abolishing the Poor-laws. He did not know what ground the hon. Gentleman had to justify such a statement, for he was sure that a casual observation which might have dropped from a noble and learned Lord, when speaking generally on the subject of the Poor-laws, would not be considered as a justification for any one saying, that the present Bill had been brought in with the intention of getting rid of the Poor-laws.
 Mr. Benett  had always opposed the principle of the present Bill, but he should regret to be obliged to vote again on the question; for the measure having been carried by large majorities in both Houses of Parliament, he had not the vanity to suppose that he was right, and that the majorities of both Houses were wrong. He was, however, so strongly convinced of the unconstitutional nature of the Bill, that he should feel bound to vote for its postponement. He did not see what reasonable objection could be urged even
 1219
 Mr. Robert Palmer  had never given a vote in the House on any question having reference to the present Bill, because he had always entertained very great doubts as to the practicability of carrying it beneficially into effect. He had at different times expressed his opinion with respect to some of the details in the Committee; yet as the Bill was introduced by his Majesty's Ministers after an inquiry of two years on the part of a Royal Commission, he thought it desirable that the Bill should go up to the other House, in order that it might undergo further investigation there. Looking at the Bill as it had been returned to that House, he felt bound to say, that in his opinion the Amendments made by the Lords, although he admitted that some
 1220
 Mr. Hodges  saw nothing in the Lords' Amendments to induce him to alter his opinion with respect to the Bill, and he should therefore support the Amendment of the hon. member for Oxford. In his opinion Parliament would be guilty of a great and enormous error in passing the Bill without due consideration, and he thought it was desirable to postpone it till next Session, in order that the opinion of the public on the subject might be known, and an opportunity afforded to Gentlemen to refer to the large mass of evidence which had been collected by the Poor-Law Commissioners. For these reasons, he should vote for the postponement of the measure to another Session, and he believed that a short and unostentatious Bill, very unlike the present Bill, would be found sufficient to remedy the evils complained of in the administration of the Poor-laws.
 Mr. Hardy  said, that instead of either negativing the Lords' Amendments, or taking them into consideration, he should propose a middle course—namely, that the Bill should be allowed to stand over till next Session. What he meant was, that the proposition for postponement should come from the noble Lord (Lord Althorp), and that it should not appear to be forced upon him. He had lately been in the West Riding of Yorkshire for a fortnight or three weeks, and he was informed by several persons, whom he consulted on the subject, that they did not understand the provisions of the Bill; and they added, that they had power enough without the intervention of the Legislature to carry any regulation into effect for the diminution of the poor-rates. Under these circumstances, he saw no great evil in postponing the Bill for a few months, especially as an opportunity would thereby be afforded to the country of duly considering the Amendments of the Lords.
 1221
 Lord Althorp  was surprised to hear hon. Members speak of the postponement of the Bill, as if they thought that nothing would be more easy than to introduce and pass such a measure in the next Session of Parliament. He was sure, however, that unless the majority of that House had greatly altered their opinion with respect to the measure, the proposition for delay would not be acceded to. He trusted that they would not lose the opportunity they now possessed of passing the Bill; for if it were postponed to another Session, he must be a bold man who would then undertake any amendment of the Poor-laws. The hon. member for Oldham had spoken of one person being the putative father of the present measure, but he must claim as much concern in it as any other person, and he certainly must say, that it appeared to him to be as beneficial a measure as had ever been passed. It had been observed, that the Amendments of the Lords materially altered the principle of the Bill. He should be sorry if this statement were correct, because he believed that the measure had been maturely considered in that House, and he begged hon. Gentlemen, who said that the Bill had not received due consideration, to recollect that every clause had been fully discussed in Committee, on the Report, and on the third reading; therefore, if any hon. Gentleman had not made up his mind as to whether the Bill should pass or not, he did not think that further consideration would at all enable him to come to a satisfactory conclusion. He was surprised at the statement made by the hon. member for Berkshire, to the effect that the Bill was not understood in the country. He thought that the Bill was not only well known, but generally approved of in the country. He knew that the Bill, and he personally, had been very much attacked, but he did not believe that those attacks were at all in accordance with the feeling of the country. When hon. Gentlemen spoke of postponing and not rejecting the Bill, he begged to observe, that a Motion for postponing the reading of a Bill for six months had always been considered as equivalent to a Motion for its rejection. At any rate, he could see no distinction between them.
 Lord Granville Somerset  was ready openly to avow, that his reason for sup-
 1222
 Mr. George F. Young  said, that as he read the Bill as it came from the Lords, he considered that the rejection of the clause which authorized the refusal of relief to able-bodied paupers after 1835 would have the effect of justifying such a refusal from the present time. At least he so understood it, and would therefore vote for the postponement of the Bill to the next Session.
 Mr. Harvey  contended, that the alteration made in clause 48, by which the relief of able-bodied paupers was let in, would destroy that principle of the Bill for which its framers had originally contended. That principle was a sound one—namely, that all men who were in health should look for support to their own industry and correct habits. The principle was, that there should not be any poor pensioners, any more than rich ones, preying upon the labour of the industrious classes. It now appeared, however, that the Commissioners would have the power to defeat that principle. If these able-bodied paupers called on the Overseer or on the Magistrates, as might command relief, then the Commissioners were to have the power to relieve them; but in large districts where the population was scattered, and where the poor could assemble only in small numbers, then relief might be withheld. There was another Amendment to which he strongly objected, which was the omission of clause 18th as it stood in the Bill when it passed that House; and he was surprised that the noble Lord, who had all his life been the advocate of religious liberty, should sanction such an Amendment as the omission of a clause which secured to the inmates of the workhouse the privilege of religious worship
 1223 1224 l The Times,
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  agreed with the noble Lord that he must be a bold man who would attempt to introduce an amendment of the Poor-laws if this Bill were not carried, but he hoped this Bill would not be carried. He was sure it would be found impossible to carry it into effect. The people had a right to claim relief if they could not obtain employment—as good a right as the noble Lord had to the hat on his head. If the people were prevented from living honestly, they would be justified in living dishonestly. He would repeat it. It was according to law. For the law said, and it was a principle of our Constitution, that obedience was to be contingent upon protection, and that where no protection was given no obedience could be exacted.
 Mr. Langdale  objected to that Amendment. By the 18th Clause it had been enacted that no rule or regulation of the Commissioners, nor any by-laws at present in force, should oblige any inmate of any workhouse to attend divine service in any mode contrary to his religious principles; nor should any such rule, &c. By the omission of this Clause the inmates of workhouses would be forced to attend divine worship though against their own conscientious conviction, and their children might, against their consent, be reared up in a form of worship to which they could not conscientiously adhere. The omission of the Clause was a violation of the principle of religious liberty, and one in which he could not concur. He had supported the Bill all through, as thinking that it would be productive of much good, but he could not concur in this Amendment. He concluded by moving that the House do not agree to the Amendment of the Lords upon this Clause.
 Lord Althorp  thought that it was a matter of great importance that persons of every religious denomination should have religious instruction from their own pastors, either at their own places of worship, or in the workhouses in which they were unfortunately placed. He could not construe this Amendment of the Lords into a prohibition of the entrance of Dissenting ministers into workhouses. He viewed the restoration of this Clause as unnecessary, for, as the law stood at present, dissenting clergymen had a right to enter all workhouses. The only mode in which dissenting clergymen could he excluded would be by a rule or order of the central Commissioners. Now as such order must be approved by the Secretary of State, and afterwards by the House of Commons, was it likely that any such order would ever be made? After the discussion which had just taken place, it was quite evident that an order would be made by the Commissioners to admit clergymen of all denominations into the workhouses. Unless there was something decidedly objectionable in the Amendment of their Lordships, that House ought not to differ from it. And as there ap-
 1226
 Mr. Buckingham  supported the Motion as the omission of this Clause would press heavily on the religious rights and liberties of the poor.
 Mr. Ewart  said, when they had firm grounds to stand on as in this case, the House of Commons ought not to yield any point of importance out of mere deference to the other House of Parliament. The Opposition to this Amendment of their Lordships was just and proper, and he hoped that it would be persisted in.
 Mr. Secretary Rice  said, that if it were the law that the clergyman of a parish had the power to prevent persons in the workhouse from receiving from their own pastors religions consolation, unquestionably this Clause would deserve to be reinserted in the Bill, but he did not believe that the clergyman had any such power. No one questioned that in the workhouse, there would be ample means of religious instruction. There was no real difference of opinion—no difference, at least, on principle. The re-insertion of the Clause would not be productive of any inconvenience, and therefore let the House decide the point, if possible, without a division, and not make the point a matter of dispute.
 Lord Althorp  said, that as it appeared to be the wish of the House, that the Clause should be re-inserted, he would make no objection.
 Lord Granville Somerset  protested against the Bastardy Clause, and asserted that in ninety-nine cases out of 100 it was impossible to get at the putative father. Now, he would say, that under the Bill in its former shape the putative father could at once have been reached, whilst under their Lordships' Bill it would
 1227
 Lord Althorp  said, that of course he preferred the Clause as it stood, though, after all, the effect of the change would be to bring matters back nearly to what they were at first. For the reasons which in the early part of the evening he stated to the House, he certainly was of opinion that it would be best to adopt the alteration; and under all the circumstances he did think, that the Clause as altered was calculated to promote the morality of both sexes in the humbler classes. He feared, however, that the effect of the measure would be to increase the difficulty of fixing the charge upon the putative father; and he feared also that such father would not be pursued unless he proved to be a man in good circumstances; while formerly he was pursued whatever might be his circumstances, the more especially if he happened to belong to another parish.
 Lord Althorp  thought it desirable that the production of corroborative evidence should in ail cases be required.
 Mr. Warburton  opposed the proposition, and said, that it was his intention to move that the reasons of the Lords be taken into consideration on this day three months. He referred to a case in "Barnwall and Creswell's Reports," contending, that it had been misquoted and misunderstood, and that the question whether the Coroner's was an open or a close Court had never been brought before the Judges. He also read an opinion given by Sergeant Russell upon the same point, in which he argued upon the notoriety of the proceedings in the Coroner's Court, as a Court of Record from which the public could not be excluded. To the same effect had been the opinion of the Attorney-General. He admitted, that the House had placed itself in a difficulty by making the clause
 1252
 The Attorney General  regretted extremely that the Bill, after the minute consideration which it had undergone, should be allowed to drop; but, all circumstances considered, he was nevertheless disposed to support the Amendment of the hon, member for Bridport. The clause which had been struck out by the Lords involved matter of infinite importance, and it was the duty of the Legislature not to pass a Bill on the subject of Coroner's Courts without setting the question at rest, whether they were open Courts. In his opinion they were open Courts, Coroners having the power, on particular occasions, to close the Court, in the same way as Judges of other Courts of Record. A declaratory clause to that effect ought to be introduced, requiring at the same time, that the Coroner should Report to the Court of King's Bench or the Secretary of State what passed in his Court when the doors were shut, and the reasons which induced him to exclude the public on any particular occasion. He hoped the Bill would be introduced and considered next Session; he should then give all the assistance in his power to improve its provisions and accelerate its progress.
 Lord Granville Somerset  expressed his regret that the Bill should be thrown out.
 Mr. Cripps  had had many difficulties to contend with, and he could not help regretting, therefore, that all his pains would be thrown away, if the Amendment were carried. He felt satisfied, that the object of the Lords was, to prove that the Coroner's Court ought to be an open Court. His opinion, supported as it was by the opinion of the learned Attorney-General, was, that the Coroner's Court ought to be an open Court. Of course he was in the hands of the House, and whatever they might deem right he should at once bow to.
 Colonel Perceval , in explanation, said, that an hon. Member (Mr. O'Reilly) having alluded to the fact of a number of the landed proprietors of Ireland having their properties mortgaged, rendered it necessary for him to say a few words. It was true a great many of the gentry were so circumstanced, but in the county which he had the honour to represent, there were a vast number of gentlemen who possessed great wealth, and who, fortunately for their country, resided on their estates. The county of Sligo was as peaceable as any part of England—there were no soldiers stationed within it, nor was it even asserted that the slightest disturbance existed there.
 Colonel Perceval  presented a petition signed by upwards of seven hundred persons, and by the great body of the noblemen and landed proprietors of the county of Cork, which went in his opinion in a great degree to disprove the arguments made use of by certain members of the Cabinet and others, namely, that the landlords of Ireland were in favour of the Bill, which he rejoiced to say had met with the fate it so justly merited in the other House of Parliament. This petition was in favour of maintaining the integrity of the Church establishment,
 1241 1242
 Mr. Charles A. Walker  regretted, that the Tithe Bill had been lost, but he chiefly rose, being a Protestant, to deny, that the Protestants of Ireland were of the same opinion with the hon. and learned member for the University of Dublin. He was convinced, that the rejection of the Tithe Bill would produce the most serious injury to the Catholic peasant, and to the Protestant clergy, the great majority of whom he was equally convinced were anxious for the passing of this Bill, but were controlled by their assessors, who never felt the pressure of want from the refusal of the people to pay tithe. Many even of those who voted in this House for the rejection of the Bill were glad it had passed: and one hon. Member who voted for the throw-
 1251
 Mr. Shaw  supported the Petition, and entirely concurred in the sentiments which had been expressed by his noble friend, who presented it. Hon. Gentlemen on the other side seemed to think, that the House of Lords was to be influenced, not by a sense of duty, as regarded the merits of the question under their consideration, but that they were to be overawed by the majorities of that House—then, indeed, would their usefulness be at an end. He conscientiously believed that the House of Lords rejected the Tithe Bill, from a just regard to the rights of property, and to the truest principles of justice and sound legislation: and he was persuaded that the good sense of the people of England, whatever temporary delusion they might labour under, would eventually approve of a course directed by such motives. The truth was, hon. Members very little understood the Bill; and he did not wonder at it, after all the changes it had undergone. They blamed him (Mr. Shaw) and those with whom he acted, for not endeavouring to meet the Government by some concessions in the settlement of that important and difficult question; whereas, in fact, they had made many and great concessions, in order to support the Bill as first introduced by the Government—because, in itsoriginal form, it proposed, that
 1250
 Mr. Sinclair , having had the misfortune to differ from his Majesty's Ministers with respect to the Irish Tithe Bill in its ultimate form, could not participate in those feelings of indignation, regret, and alarm, which its rejection in another place had excited in the minds of his hon. friend opposite, and the hon. Member near him. The fate of that measure had been somewhat singular. It had gone through many editions during its passage through that House; but he did think, that none of the later editions had been either  auctior emendatior, editio princeps, folio, duodecimo, 1245 magni nominis umbra, 1246 1247 1248
 Mr. Henry Grattan  rose to submit the Motion of which he had given notice—"That an humble Address he presented to his Majesty, praying that his Majesty, being pleased to take the affairs of Ireland into his most serious consideration, and the loss of life and calamitous consequences that have resulted from the various conflicts between the soldiery, the police, and the peasantry of Ireland, on the levying and collecting of tithes, may direct that the military force shall not in future be employed in that service." The hon. and learned Gentleman said, that having seriously considered the importance of the question, and the danger of exciting still more the angry feeling of the people of Ireland—a consequence which, probably, would ensue if a debate arose on the Motion of which he had given notice; considering also that so few Members remained, and so few Irish Members were present, he deemed it to be more prudent not to bring forward the Motion. At the same time, he could not but dispute the prudence of the House of Lords in rejecting the Bills of the Commons, though he admitted their right to do so. He reserved to himself the full scope on this subject, and in the next Session opportunities would occur of discussing the expediency of nullifying the proceedings of that House, and rejecting so many popular and salutary measures as the House of Lords, in the undoubted exercise of their constitutional rights, had thought proper to do. Their right was one thing: the expediency of exercising it, and thus going against the sense of the people, was another. For
 1254
 Mr. Potter  said, that he was so far from rejoicing at the decision of the other House of Parliament on Monday evening, that he regarded it with the most painful forebodings; because that measure he contemplated as the harbinger of peace to Ireland. So far as he could learn it was so considered by the clergy themselves for the noble Premier had presented a petition from a number of them expressive of their approbation of the measure. But it was not alone the people of Ireland who had reason to complain of the conduct of the other branch of the Legislature. The Bill to admit the Dissenters to the Universities had also been rejected, and he earnestly hoped that the House would not separate without expressing its opinion of the conduct of the Lords. The hon. member for Caithness had spoken of Dissenters, Socinians, and Infidels, thus classing them together; now he begged to tell that hon. Gentleman that the Dissenters were as moral and religious, and as firm believers in Christianity, as the Church, or even the Kirk itself. The hon. member had also made a gross attack on the Socinians as he termed them, but Unitarians were meant. He had the privilege and the happiness to belong to that sect, and he was ready to justify his belief. This was not the first time the Unitarians had been attacked and grossly misrepre-
 1249
 Colonel Stawell  could state, from communication which he had received recently, that many of the clergy were anxious for the passing of the last Bill. He regretted that the Bill had been lost, as he thought it would have been a great advantage to the Established Church.
 Mr. O'Reilly  wished to ask the gallant Colonel, whether the petition he had just presented, contained any prayer in favour of the rejection of the Bill, which had just been thrown out by the other House; for if it did not, the observations he had made upon that subject were quite uncalled for. He was also desirous to know from the gallant Colonel how it happened, since he had so indignantly deprecated the boon of forty per cent granted by the Legislature, from the Consolidated Fund, and had taken so active a part in the debate, he had entirely forgotten to vote on the question? It was very convenient for hon. Members to absent themselves from divisions, when they wished to maintain a character for disinterested conduct, but he would tell that hon. and gallant Gentleman the real motive for such conduct could not be mistaken. The great objections taken to the Bill were made under a pretence of defending the property of the established Church, and supporting its rights and privileges, but the real object was, to keep up a system that was against the peace and happiness of that country, as it was against the wishes and general feeling of the empire. The boasted loyalty of the opponents of the Bill flowed not from conviction and principle, but from interested motives and a desire to maintain an ascendancy where they possessed political influence and property, which they feared might be wrested from them when the people became in that situation that they might maintain it for themselves. For his own part, he could not look upon the rejection of the Irish Tithe Bill by the other House of Parliament, when he viewed the effects that would certainly result from it, without feelings of dismay." It had been very insolently whispered out of that House, that the representatives of the property of Ireland had voted against the Tithe Bill; but he would fearlessly place the supporters of the Bill, in point of the property they really possessed, against the boasted representatives of the property of Ireland; and when it was fully considered how the
 1243
 Sir Edward Codrington>  believed a greater misfortune could not befall the country at the present moment than the rejection of the Irish Tithe Bill by the other House of Parliament. The event would be deeply lamented by every real friend of the Establishment, as it must effect a serious injury on the Church. He confessed he was at a loss to understand how the professed friends of the Irish Church could rejoice at the rejection of so beneficial a measure, and he could not help thinking, that such an event would tend ultimately to the great injury not only of the Church, but even the Peerage itself. He was surprised to hear any measure termed unhallowed which had passed that House by such a large majority.
 Mr. Ward  said, that the gallant Colonel had taken rather an Irish way of introducing a discussion on the Tithe Bill, as not one word was said respecting it in the petition which he had just presented. The petitioners talked indeed of the Commission of Inquiry, which the gallant Colonel called an unhallowed commission. He regarded this commission with very different feelings. He thought it would prove the first step towards the removal of that accursed system (he would reply to one harsh epithet by another) which had so long rendered Ireland a prey to agitation and anarchy. As to the Bill, upon the fate of which the gallant Colonel was bold enough to congratulate the House, he viewed its rejection in a very different light. He lamented to see, perhaps, the only opportunity of settling a great national question, gratuitously thrown away; and the clergy of Ireland, whose individual rights he had been most anxious to respect consigned for a whole twelvemonth to hopeless penury and the most abject destitution. There was not a possibility of enforcing the law as it now stood, and that the gallant Colonel well knew; for when he talked so loudly of the responsibility of others, he only did it in the hope of hiding, by a little blustering, his own apprehensions as to the effects of the blow which he and the hon. and learned Recorder for Dublin, and those who thought with them, had induced the other branch of the Legislature to direct against the unfortunate clergy. As to the articles of union, upon which the gallant Colonel had done him the honour to appeal to him personally, he (Mr. Ward) should be most happy to argue the point with the gallant Colonel at a very early period of the next Session; and he moreover pledged himself to do so; for the rejection of the Tithe Bill would at least, produce this good effect—it would convince the House of the absolute
 1244
 Mr. Hume  protested against domiciliary visits, and said he should divide the House.
 Lord Althorp  said, he should have been better satisfied if the right of entry had been limited to one hour after the time appointed for shutting up the houses, still he should support the Amendment as it stood.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  denounced the measure as tyrannical, as the result of old women's talk, or men like old women, who went up and down through the country circulating idle stories about drunkenness and immorality.
 The Attorney General  rose for the purpose of moving for certain returns from the Court of Chancery, the result of which he was sure would give the greatest satisfaction to that House and the country. It was of the greatest importance that the public should be correctly informed of the manner in which the judicial business of the country was disposed of; and even to the judges themselves it was but fair that a statement should be made, in order, if arrears existed, that a stimulus might be furnished; and
 1261 1262
 Mr. Aglionby  rose to call the attention of the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) to the case of an individual convicted at Warwick by Mr. Justice Taunton of setting fire to one or more
 1263
 Mr. Hume  said, nothing could be more satisfactory than the statement which had been made by the hon. and learned Gentleman, as far as expedition was concerned; but there was another element of great importance in relation to legal proceedings—namely, expense, which he hoped would not be overlooked. He was glad to see that a clear and convincing statement had been made as to the despatch of the legal business of the country, in order to meet, in the most decided way, the representations which had been made upon the subject elsewhere; but he should be glad to know in what proportion the expenses of suitors had been reduced by the operation of the late Reform.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the object of all punishment was prevention, and that the most effectual mode of securing that object was, by causing penalties to accord with the feelings of the people, so that there should be no reluctance to prosecute, and by rendering them certain, unfailing, and expeditious. He regretted much that the Bill just mentioned had not passed into a law.
 Mr. Ewart  observed, that many petitions in favour of the Bill were presented in the course of the present Session from persons who had been sufferers from the offence the punishment for which it was the object of that Bill to mitigate.
 The Attorney-General  said, the new system had only come into operation in November last, and it would be impossible to make out any comparative return of the expenses until the year was completed. At the same time, however, he could assure the House, that the suitors had derived the full benefit intended by the change, and many abuses under which they formerly laboured had now been entirely removed.
 Lord Althorp  referred to the admission of the last speaker that Government had given no intimation as to what course they might think it proper to pursue with regard to such prisoners as might be tried and found guilty at the then ensuing assizes; he was clear in the opinion that nothing could be more unjust towards persons accused, or more injurious to society at large, than that the law should be rendered uncertain by any discussions that might take place in that House, and he had expressed himself to that effect in reference to the Bill to which the hon. and learned Gentleman had just been alluding. As to the possible effects of that Bill, the hon. and learned Gentleman might make himself perfectly easy, for, considering the time at which it passed its second reading, it was utterly impossible that it should be carried through both Houses, and receive the Royal assent in the present Session. The hon. Member seemed to take for granted, that if a Bill were read a second time, that proceeding on the part of the House amounted to a sanction of its principle; technically speaking, perhaps, that might be true, but in practice it was well known to hon. members that the House often gave a Bill a
 1264
 Mr. Hill  would take upon himself to state, as one of the parties in the inquiry, that the noble Lord's conduct had been as upright and as honourable as any man's could be.
 Mr. Ruthven  said, the allegation was, that the noble Lord had applied to his own use the interest on Exchequer Bills, which belonged solely to the public. He would, however, strike out the objectionable part of his notice.
 Mr. Ruthven  said, he wished to give notice of a Motion to be submitted early next Session, which deeply implicated Lord Ellenborough. It was that he, a Peer of the Realm, in his capacity as Clerk of the Court of King's Bench, had applied to his own use sums of money, and interests of sums of money, which it was his duty to have placed to the credit of the public.
 Mr. Secretary Rice  thought the hon. Gentleman was really going a little too far. He might give his notice generally, but he certainly had no right to put it in a shape which conveyed a serious moral imputation upon a man's character. The latter part of the notice imputed that which, if untrue, was a most cruel outrage upon a man's feelings: and which, if true,
 1271
 Mr. Lynch  declared there were upwards of 200 cases undisposed of, and when the Vice-Chancellor's Bill passed the arrear was only 214.
 Mr. Lynch  alluding to observations which had fallen from the Attorney-General on a former occasion upon a Motion relative to the business of the Court of Chancery, said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had made comparisons between the amount of business done by the present Lord Chancellor and certain other Judges, which not only cast a reflection on the latter, but also on former Judges who had held the office of Lord Chancellor with the greatest credit to themselves and the administration of the country. Such observations had a very injurious tendency, and were calculated greatly to mislead the public. He must also complain of the incorrectness of certain statements made by his Majesty's Attorney-General, from which it would be inferred, there was no arrear of causes in the Court of Chancery, such was not the fact, there being a very considerable arrear of business that had not been disposed of.
 Mr. George F. Young  thought, that it would be gross injustice to the noble Lord, or to any man, to let such a notice stand upon the Books of the House. Surely the hon. Member would not persist in such a course.
 Mr. Hume  said, it was true, that the noble Lord had applied the money; but then, in the evidence upon the Table, he had accounted how he had done so. The notice ought certainly to be given in a general way, or not at all.
 The Attorney-General  again said, he believed the returns he had quoted to be essentially true. He must also most unequivocally deny that he had cast any reflection on the other Judges of the Court by the observations he had made with reference to the business before the Lord Chancellor. So far from entertaining any feeling of that description, he believed the other Judges had discharged their duties with the greatest assiduity, and that their exertions merited the highest praise he could bestow.
 The Attorney-General  said, the facts he had mentioned to the House were
 1270
 Lord Althorp  said, he was the last man to oppose inquiry into the conduct of any public functionary who might be supposed to have misbehaved himself. But, then, there was a just way of causing that inquiry. If the hon. member for Dublin thought there had been wrong done to the public, he was not only justified in demanding inquiry, but he would desert his own duty if he did not demand it. Let him not, however, implicate a man's character and at the same time say to him, "You shan't for six months have an opportunity of defending it." The notice, in his opinion, ought to be framed so as to carry no implication.
