 Mr. Denison  spoke to the following effect. It is seldom that I intrude upon the House, and it is with great reluctance that I do so upon the present occasion; indeed, nothing but the most imperative sense of public duty, and the wishes of my friends around me, could have induced me to come forward at this most important crisis, when the public mind is most excited; and when the eyes, not only of this country, not only of Europe, but of the whole civilized world are watching our deliberations. In a great part of what has fallen from the noble Lord, whose appearance in this House I am glad to see, and likewise in what has fallen from my hon. Friend, the Member for Shoreham, I perfectly concur. In all that has been stated respecting the amiable and excellent qualities of the right hon. Gentleman who was lately our Speaker, I agree; and, indeed, no one can dispute his virtues in private life. But this is not a question of personal character—it is a question of great public principle. Yes, I say, however the noble Lord (Lord F. Egerton) may be inclined to sneer at public principle, or ridicule those who act upon it, that this is a ques-
 12 "Leaped his light courser o'er the bounds of taste." 13 14
 Mr. Ord  rose to second the Motion. "It is with great reluctance, and even with regret," said the hon. Gentleman, "that I offer myself to the notice of the House at all, and much more so upon a question of such great importance as that which we are now assembled to decide. But I have another and a deeper source of regret, for I feel myself compelled by a sense of public duty to oppose the election of a right hon. Gentleman whose public services I have long witnessed, whose zealous and indefatigable exertions in the discharge of the duties of his laborious office, I have long admired, and whose kindness and courtesy of behaviour, I, in common with every Member of the House, have uniformly experienced. But occurrences sometimes present themselves to men engaged in public life, when feelings of a private and personal nature must give way to others dictated by what each individual conceives to be his public duty. In my opinion the present is one of those occasions; for the choice of a Speaker, at this moment, is not only attended by all those considerations of importance which at all times and under all circumstances attach to it, but
 15 16 17
 Lord Stanley  addressed the House to the following effect:—Sir, as I conceive it is not probable that any other Gentleman will be submitted to the consideration of
 28 29 30 31 32 33 No, no! 34 35
 Lord Stanley  begged the right hon. Gentleman's pardon. What he (Lord Stanley) meant to say was, that he (Lord Stanley) had made up his mind on the principle, and that he believed the right hon. Gentleman had not.
 Mr. Robert Ferguson  said, it is exceedingly painful for me to be obliged to address a few words to the House on this occasion, the more particularly from the feelings of personal friendship I entertain for Sir Charles Sutton. But I trust the House will bear with me in consequence of the painful situation in which I find myself placed. At an early period, when I perceived that there was likely to be a serious division on the Speakership, and that Mr. Abercromby would be nominated in opposition to Sir Charles Manners Sutton, I endeavoured to ascertain the real fact, and from undoubted authority I was informed that Mr. Abercromby had declined being put in nomination. I still thought it probable that there might be a division and resistance to the re-election of the late Speaker, but that it would not be viewed as an important party question. On this conviction, I certainly then allowed a communication to be made to Sir Charles Manners Sutton, intimating that I should not vote against him. It is unnecessary to allude to the intense interest now attached to the present vote—and considering it of the greatest constitutional importance with my own known and decided hostility to the present Government—if I had felt myself entirely a free man, I should on this occasion, on public grounds alone, have most unquestionably voted against my own brother; and in doing so, have felt that I neither should have sacrificed my
 36
 Mr. Robert Ferguson  observed, that the right hon. Gentleman had stated, that his honour and character were at stake, and on that ground his determination had been founded. He then left the House.
 Lord John Russell  was unwilling to prolong the Debate by any observations of his; but after what had fallen from his noble Friend (Lord Stanley) with respect to the conduct of Earl Grey's Government, he felt he should not be doing justice to his own feelings if he did not offer some explanation of the vote he was about to give. In the very beginning and outset of his explanation, he must vindicate, on the part of the House of Commons, the right of electing the Member whom they please to fill the office of their Speaker. If his noble Friend's principle were to be carried out to its full extent, there was an end at once to the option of the House as to whom they would place in the Chair. His noble Friend had stated, that he expected an attempt would have been made to fix on the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge the character of a dishonoured and convicted intriguer, and that upon such grounds the House would have been called on to reject the right hon. Gentleman's claim to the Chair. His noble Friend also seemed to think, that in the absence of such a charge, the House was bound to re-elect the right hon. Gentleman. If
 38 * * 39 40 41 42 43 44 * Parl. Hist. iv. p. 1092. 45 46 47 48 Member: ["Don't answer."]
 Lord John Russell  said, that his impression was, that the late Speaker went no further than this—that he took an active part with respect to the formation of a Government, which Government could do no other than dissolve the Parliament. His grounds of objection, therefore, had certainly been founded on the supposition, that the right hon. Gentleman had contributed by his conduct to the dissolution of the late Parliament. 50 "No, no," 51 52
 Lord Dudley Stuart  was understood to say, that he felt bound to give a short explanation of the reasons which induced him to abstain from acting with that party with which he had hitherto acted. He trusted the House would permit him to explain the motives which influenced him in the course which he felt it his duty to pursue. Having been one of those who voted in the majority in the late Parliament on the election of Speaker, he considered that it was impossible for him on the present occasion, however painful it was for him to take part against his friends, to vote against the re-election of the right hon. Gentleman, unless it could be shown that he had done something wrong. The charges that had been brought against him had altogether failed. On the former occasion to which he had referred, many Gentlemen of all shades of opinion concurred in saying, that the right hon. Gentleman was the best Speaker that they could then choose; and some said, that he was the best Speaker that they could possibly have. He thought that it was the duty of the House to select the man who was likely to discharge the duty of the office with the greatest advantage to the House; and he could not help feeling that the late Speaker was better adapted for the office than any one else that could be chosen. He had been asked out of the House, how he intended to give his vote? and his reply was,—that as the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge, while he held the office of Speaker, had obtained the unquestionable approbation of all parties, it was his intention to vote for the re-election of the right hon. Gentleman to the Chair, unless it could be shown that he had acted improperly. To him the answer of the right hon. Gentleman to the
 55
 Lord Francis Egerton  rose, and addressed the Chief Clerk, who presided, as follows:—Mr. Ley, his Majesty's gracious communication having pointed out to this House its preliminary task and duty, I rise for the purpose of making a Motion, which, if it meet, as I confidently trust it will, with the approbation of a majority of those who hear me, will carry his Majesty's pleasure into effect, and will do so, I conceive, in a manner most calculated to secure and promote all those great interests which can be affected by the object of the present discussion. At no period of this country's history, under no circumstances, public or otherwise, that I can conceive, could a fitting selection of an individual from among us, to fill the Chair, be a matter of greater public concern, or a Motion which tends to that selection a question of more serious responsibility. In the present circumstances of the country, when all know, and I am sure deeply feel, that the House must inevitably enter upon fields of discussion of vital importance to the interests of the State, I feel that we should look narrowly and closely to the qualifications of the individual to whom we must look for guidance and advice, for the maintenance of our high privileges and constitutional independence, for the due control over the fervour and excitement of our Debates, and for a wise exercise of that influence which we, with a proud, graceful, and salutary submission, are wont, and I am sure are now ready, to delegate to the individual we call to the Chair, and for whose attendance the honours and emoluments derived
 4 5 6 * Quis vituperavit? Quis vituperaturus est. * 7 8 9 10
 Mr. Robinson  said, that it was impossible for any Gentleman who had heard the debate to come to any other conclusion than that the rejection of the late Speaker would be an act of great injustice, and the infliction of unmerited obloquy on a public servant, who had occupied the Chair of the House of Commons irreproachably, according to the concurrent opinion of men of all parties. The question was, and it ought to be so considered by every honourable man, whether the House would reject an old and tried servant, and elect another person in preference to him. He would not say a word in disparagement of the right hon. Member for Edinburgh, and if the Chair were vacant by the retirement of the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge, he knew of no person whom he would more readily vote for; but as he entertained a decided conviction that it would be doing an act of injustice to re-
 56
 Mr. Abercromby  assured the noble Lord that there were records of his opinions in existence which showed that the noble Lord was mistaken.
 Mr. Abercromby  was understood to say, that he did not understand on what authority the noble Lord had represented him to have made up his mind on the voluntary principle, as applicable to the Church Establishment.
 Mr. Abercromby  spoke to the following effect:—Sir, while I am duly sensible of the honour that has been conferred upon me, in having been selected by others as a person qualified to be recommended to the favour of the House on the present occasion, I cannot be insensible to the very great disadvantage under which I must labour from finding myself opposed to a Gentleman, who so long has filled the Chair, and whose repeated re-election has marked the sense which has been entertained of his services. This and other considerations were so strongly felt by me that I was most anxious to decline the application of my friends to permit them to place me in my present position. I have, however yielded my own inclinations and opinions to the judgment of others, in whom I confide, and whatever the decision of the House may be, I shall always reflect with great satisfaction upon the proof which has thus been afforded to me, that I possess the confidence of friends, whom I respect and esteem. My thanks are especially due to my two honoured friends who have recommended me in terms dictated by their old friendship, and not, as all must know, by the merits of the individual to whom those terms have been applied. Sir, the House is now required to perform its first and most important duty in selecting the individual whom it would call into its service. Feeling that the decision ought to be governed by the judgment that may be formed of the past conduct in life of any one who may be proposed for the consideration of the House, I have thought it most respectful and becoming to take no part, but patiently to abide the event. Under this impression I should have had little more to address to the House; but as the House cannot fail to know that the contest has been conducted out of doors in a very different spirit from that which I am sure will prevail within these walls, it has occurred to me, that as the right hon. Gentleman has vindicated
 27
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that the last time he had the pleasure of seeing his constituents they voted an Address of thanks to the King for having dismissed the late Ministers. He, therefore, was determined to do nothing which had a tendency to force those Ministers back upon the King. He could give many long reasons for not voting in favour of the right hon. Member for Edinburgh, but he would content himself with one. The right hon. Gentleman was one of the Ministers who hatched, brought in clandestinely, and pushed forward the inhuman Poor-law Bill.
 Sir Charles Burrell  was understood to express himself nearly as follows:—I should not have intruded myself upon the attention of the House on this important occasion, had it not been for particular reasons, which my friends have been pleased to consider valid; but, after the excellent and eloquent speech of the noble Lord, my intrusion upon the attention of the House will be short. I offer myself to the consideration of the House as a man who seconds the Motion of the noble Lord, but without any party views, and upon no political principle; I second the Motion from an entire conviction of the superior fitness of the right hon. Gentleman who formerly was our Chairman, for that office, over every Member in the House, without meaning disparagement to any one, and much less to the right hon. Gentleman whom we understand it is in contemplation to propose. For that right hon. Gentleman I have the very highest respect; I know him to have considerable talents, and to be a man of the highest integrity; and in what I do, I repeat that I intend him no disparagement. In 1817 it happened that I, from circumstances of regard for a particular friend of mine, the right hon. Member for Montgomeryshire, and from a persuasion of his fitness for the office, had the honour to second his nomination for the Chair. Since that period I have had opportunities, from having been in Parliament ever since, of noticing the urbanity, the efficiency, and the impartiality of the right hon. Gentleman who was then elected to fill the Chair. With this conviction, I think I should do an injustice to him,
 11
 Sir Charles Manners Sutton  was aware, that he at all times owed an apology to the House for intruding himself upon their notice; but he felt that it was an occasion on which the House, always alive to the honour of public servants, would be inclined to give him a patient hearing. He assured them, that as, on
 18 19 "The Speaker feels it his duty to acquaint your Majesty, that having heard at Brighton early this morning of the lamentable fire at the two Houses of Parliament, and the house
 20 "The Speaker regrets to state that both Houses of Parliament are entirely destroyed—floors, fittings, and roofs; and nothing left standing but the outer walls. With respect to the Speaker's house, the greater part of the domestic portion of the house is destroyed; and to the rest, including the public apartments, very extensive damage is done. Much of the more valuable part of the library of the House of Commons, as well as papers and records, have been saved; and the Speaker cannot omit to add his sincere satisfaction that westminster Hall, which was in imminent danger at several points, has been fortunately preserved. "The Speaker trusts that your Majesty will pardon the liberty he has taken in communicating these melancholy occurrences to your Majesty." 21 22 23 Court Circular, 24 Court Circular, Gazette. 25 26
 Sir Charles Manners Sutton  begged permission to offer a very few words relative to what had just fallen from the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Ferguson). He begged to assure that hon. Gentleman, and he referred him to that with respect to which he could labour under no mistake, that he (Sir Charles Manners Sutton) had never held him to any intention he might have expressed with reference to himself. It was perfectly true, as the hon. Gentleman had stated, that application had been made to him (Sir Charles Manners Sutton) to know whether, under the pressure of the different view the hon. Gentleman
 37
 Lord Morpeth  said, that he would limit
 53 54
 On the Speaker's return, having taken his seat in the Chair, he informed the House of what took place in the House of Peers, and added, that he had once more to express to the House his unfeigned thanks for the distinguished honour which it had conferred upon him, and for the great proof it had shown of its confidence in him. He was well aware, that if he did not possess the full confidence of the House, it would be useless for him to hope, that he could adequately discharge the important duties of his station. It should, however, be his constant endeavour to gain that confidence by fidelity and zeal, and by pursuing a just and impartial course in support of the rights and privileges of that House.
 Mr. Abercromby,  attended by his proposer and seconder, and accompanied by a large number of Members, proceeded to the House of Peers.
 Mr. Pemberton had some observations to address to the House, which he would bring within as narrow a compass as possible. On the other side of the House, there was no Gentleman who more admired the eloquence of the noble Mover of the Amendment than he did. But he admired still more the temper displayed by the noble Lord—he would endeavour to imitate it; for he was desirous, in discussing the present question, to avoid all irritating topics, all annoying observations, which could tend to exasperate animosities, and widen differences between public men, which were already too great. He was sure that Gentlemen around him, upon both sides, must feel that the real purpose of the Amendment was not to express to the Crown or to the public any particular opinions; but to express a preference of the late to the present Administration. Knowing that that was the real import of the question, he should endeavour shortly to explain why
 175 176 177 178 Morning Chronicle 179 180 181 182
 Mr. Richards* said, he must be reluctant to occupy the time of the House, when, to other considerations, he superadded the consciousness he felt that, though a sincere Reformer, he, on this occasion, differed from many of his constituents. He, however, claimed the indulgence of the House whilst he stated the grounds upon which he should vote for the Address. He did not mean to say, however, that he differed widely in opinion from the noble Lord who had proposed the Amendment. There were many parts of the Amendment which he would cordially support. Really, amongst many of his hon. friends near him there seemed to have arrived a sort of political millenium. He begged to say that circumstances altered cases. It certainly appeared to him that the political millenium had arrived—that the time had come when the lion and the lamb were lying down by each other. The question, which it appeared to him, best deserved the attention of the House was, what would be the consequence of rejecting the Address proposed? For his own part he could not blind himself to the consequences which must result from such a proceeding, if it were possible, as that of the dismissal of his Majesty's Ministers. Feeling, then, that such dismissal in the present state of parties would be injurious to the country, he came forward, in spite of obloquy and censure, to say why it would be injurious, and why it was, he would support the Address. He had said, that circumstances altered cases, and though the expression of this sentiment excited a smile on the part of hon. Gen-
 * 186 187 188 Frigida pugnabant calidis, humentia siccis, Mollia cum duris, sine pondere habentia pondus. 189
 Mr. Milnes Gaskell expressed his intention of supporting the Address. He felt that this was an occasion upon which no man, however humble his abilities, had a right to shrink from the avowal of his opinion. He felt too, that he should not be doing justice to the constituency which had sent him to that House; and which, though not so numerous, was as independent and respectable as that of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down (Mr. Grote), any more than to his own feelings and opinions, if he did not protest in their name as well as in his own against the tone and spirit of the opposition to which his Majesty's Ministers had been subjected. He could nut believe that this
 193 194
 Colonel Sibthorpe said, that it was quite time to get rid of the late Ministry, when they had been for two years the laughing-stock of the country. He said this without any political bias, for he maintained that lie was no party man. He could not forget the language which had been used by a lawyer and a judge in an address to his constituents—he alluded to the language used by the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets. If the people of England, and even the constituents of that hon. and learned Gentleman, were not disgusted with the expressions then used, he must be much mistaken. Where was the respect which that hon. and learned Gentleman owed to
 200
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer rose to address the House * * 215 216 217 l l 218 219 220 221 222 223 224 225 226 227 228 229 l 230 231 232 l. 233 234 235 236 237 238 l 239 "Quo desiderio veteres revocamus amores? Et dudum amissas flemus amicitias?" 240 241 242
 Lord John Russell, before the House adjourned, begged leave to ask the right hon. Gentleman two or three questions. One was, what course he intended to pursue with respect to the disabilities of the Dissenters? He wished also to know whether it was intended to bring on the question of the commutation of tithes at an early day? Lastly, was it the right hon. Gentleman's determination to lay on the table the Reports of the Commissioners of Church Inquiry in Ireland?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer replied that he had already stated that soon after he had entered the Cabinet, he had applied himself to the consideration of measures for the relief of the Dissenters; and that he hoped to be able to submit a proposition which, although it would not go to the admission of Dissenters into the Universities, would relieve them from the disabilities under which they laboured, with reference to the professions of law and medicine. Propositions, also, with respect to the marriages and the registers of the births of Dissenters, were under consideration. It had been alleged that the former
 243
 Mr. Barry would not have troubled the House but for the observations of the
 212
 Mr. Cressett Pelham intended to vote for the Address, as he thought that it was
 207
 Mr. Bannerman rose to second the Amendment. After the able and eloquent manner in which the noble Lord had proposed it, he felt some apology was necessary for his intrusion on the patience of the House. He was proud to say, that he represented a large constituency, though not so large a one as the constituency of the noble Lord; he was still prouder that they had returned him to that House free of expense, and that even the expense of the hustings on which he had stood before them had been defrayed; and it gave him still more pride to say, that he was sent to Parliament completely unfettered and unpledged on any of those questions or subjects that were likely to come under discussion. Regretting, as he did, the late dissolution, he could not help saying, that so far as he was personally concerned, he should not care if another took place tomorrow, unless, indeed, as it might tend to endanger the peace, prosperity, and happiness of the country. He trusted, therefore, that he should not be accused of any factious motives in supporting the Amendment of the noble Lord, and giving any opposition he might think it necessary to offer to the present Government. As a Scotch Representative he would say, and in so doing he felt certain he should be fully borne out by a large majority of his hon. Colleagues in that House—that his countrymen felt that they owed a deep debt of gratitude to those Englishmen and Irishmen who had so nobly fought the battle of Reform, and given to Scotland its present political existence. They would ill repay that debt of gratitude if they did not cordially form an alliance—unholy as the noble Lord opposite might consider it—for the purpose of endeavouring to procure those Reforms which he (Mr. Bannerman) was quite sure the late Government would have granted, and which he was pretty certain the present Government had no intention whatever of conceding. There were, he knew, some Members on that (the Opposition) side of the House, who might consider that the Amendment savoured rather too much of a milk-and-water nature. When it was put into his (Mr. Bannerman's) hands a short time ago, he certainly was under a similar impression; a little reflection, however, convinced him that he was in the
 174 l
 Mr. Grote said, that be, like the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, ever was a sincere Reformer, but his Reform principles conducted him to very different conclusions from those arrived at by the hon. Member, and inspired him with different remarks from those which he had made. He could not consent, Reformer as he was, to look for a Ministry in the ranks of those who were and ever had been much more opposed to Reform than any other party of their day. He could not agree with the hon. Gentleman, that carrying the Amendment would compel the removal of the present Ministers. But having often expressed regret at the dismissal of Lord Melbourne's Administration, and having throughout a large constituency, met with an uniformity of sympathy with that feeling, he could not refrain from expressing it in this House, and from adding (without meaning any discourtesy), that if his vote would have the effect of removing the present Government, he should consider it an additional reason for giving it. The hon. Member for Knaresborough had commented with some severity on the conduct of Lord Grey's Government in regard to the Motion made by himself (Mr. Grote), as well as in regard to measures brought forward by other hon. Members. Whatever might be said as to the slowness of the Reforms made by Lord Grey's Administration, against that of Lord Melbourne, nothing could be said. For how much or how little good might be contemplated by Lord Melbourne's Administration could never have been known, since they had been denied that fair trial for which the advocates of the present Government were now so clamorous. They had the evidence on all sides of the
 190 191 192
 Dr. Bowring denied, that the representation made by hon. Members, in the course
 213 214 [Calls of "Question."]
 Mr. Kearsley, addressing himself directly to the Speaker, observed, that it was probably expected, that he rose to avail himself of the earliest opportunity to offer to the right hon. Gentleman those compliments upon his elevation to the Chair which were so justly his due. That, however, was not his intention. He rose to advert to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Shaftesbury (Mr. Poulter), who had thought fit to bring up an angel from below to influence the Debate. Now what he had to say was this:—he would most cheerfully give his vote for that Being, upon condition that he would take the late Pay-master of the forces and all his tag-rag-and-bobtail away to sup with him that night.
 Mr. Poulter said: Without the slightest personal hostility to the present Administration, and without even a personal acquaintance with the Members of the last, I am at a loss to understand how the carrying into effect just measures of improvement can be safely intrusted to those who have invariably declared themselves the stern and conscientious enemies of Reform. I question not the prerogative of the Crown—I question not the perfect right of the King, though he must confer with his recognized advisers upon public questions to ascertain directly or indirectly the sentiments of others, or even, in an anticipated event, to act accordingly to these sentiments. To refuse this would be to deny to the King of England a right of intercourse which belongs to every private individual in the kingdom. I admit the excellence of intention; I doubt nothing but the political wisdom, of what has taken place. To continue Governments which are acting inconsistently, the individual Members of which are strongly at variance with each other upon great national questions, and to select, as a good opportunity for the most abrupt dismissal of which there is any
 195 196 "The devil was sick, the devil a saint would be; The devil got well, the devil a saint was he." 197 Hujus in adventu jam rune et Caspia regna Responsis horrent Divûm, et Mæotica tellus Et septemgemnii turbant trepidi ostia Nili. à priori 198
 Mr. Ewart most cordially agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just addressed the House, that it was impossible for any Government to continue long in power that would not conduct the public affairs in accordance with the principles of Reform; and he most sincerely united with him in thinking that the Government of this country must in future be open to men of all parties. But while he made this avowal, he most strenuously entered his declaration against the doctrine, that the furtherance and promotion of the great measure of Reform were to be intrusted to those very persons who, a few short months ago, were its most violent opponents. Those who should consider this as a sound and wholesome distrust, would stand vindicated with their constituents and the country for withholding their confidence from men
 183 sine qua non "Sirenum voces et Circes pocula nâsti." 184 elleipsis 185
 Sir Samuel Whalley remarked, that it was singular the noble Lord who moved the Address could not flatter the House with a prospect of unanimity, on topics of vital interest, even amongst the Members of his Majesty's Government. Where then were they to look for it? This want of unanimity obviously arose from the Cabinet being constructed of heterogeneous materials. One avowed he was and ever had been a Reformer; the other bad lately become one; and a third hated the very name of Reform, like the hon. Member for Norwich, whose consistency was remarkable in times like the present. They were not now called upon to say, whether the prerogative of the Crown had been exercised for the benefit of the country, or to serve the purposes of party. It was enough to know, that it was exercised in defiance of those principles which placed the House of Brunswick on the throne, because it went to put at the helm of affairs an Administration which was notoriously obnoxious to the people. Where was the Parliament to look for the real grounds ads whereon the Crown had dismissed the late Ministry from office? He thought they would do right to look for it where Mr. Fox in a parallel case sought for it in 1783, when he said, "This had been the most barefaced Government ever witnessed, accomplishing by the irresponsible advice of merely secondary agents and unimportant individuals under Government, the objects of setting the Crown to stand forth, and take measures directly in defiance of the people and the Parliament. "It was the laudable custom of their predecessors in this place to tack the redress of grievances to money bills; but he trusted that the House would improve upon this custom, and not even entertain the question of Supply, till it had ample reparation for the injury it had suffered. He repeated, not even entertain the question of Supply; yes, he trusted tile House would not even entertain the question of Supply, until ample atonement had been made for the outrage which had been offered to the country. When they saw that there had been a dismissal of a Parliament grateful to the people, and which had been elected by a full and free constituency—when they
 208 209 210
 Mr. Clay thought, that if one duty was more incumbent than another on the Members of the House, it was this, that now upon the first occasion that presented itself of expressing, their collective opinions, they should declare their sentiments so explicitly that the people of England could have no doubt as to the course they intended to pursue. The people watched their proceedings with the greatest anxiety—disappointed in their expectations or support—when they had reposed an unlimited confidence, they turned to their Representatives with increased anxiety, and looked to the steady devotion of that
 201 202 203 204 205 206
 Viscount Castlereagh would meet the hon. Member on his own grounds. The intelligence, the rank, and property of the empire responded to the appeal made by the King at the recommendation of his Ministers. He was not merely speaking from his own knowledge, but from what he derived from other sources of information, to which no doubt or discredit could be attached. The voice of constitutional liberty and loyalty was heard in this country and in the part of Ireland with which he was connected, and in which devotion to the Monarchy and the settled institutions of the State was a practical principle with the people. The people of England and of Ulster had testified by the result of the elections their disposition to support the prerogatives of the Crown, the rights of property, the blessings of social order,
 211
 Mr. Arthur Trevor looked upon the Amendment as not founded upon public principles, but intended to drive from his Majesty's Councils those who had been called thereto, and on that ground he felt himself bound to oppose it  ["No, no!"]. 199
 Lord Morpeth rose and said—In ordinary times I do not know that there would have been much room for criticism, and, perhaps, still less for positive opposition in the gracious Speech which we have this day heard from the Throne, and which, if it stray into greater length than is ordinarily to be found in similar documents, I think cannot be accused of departing, in any of its material features, from much of their accustomed vagueness. But so far from being ordinary, I conceive the present to be such special circumstances and times, that those at least in whose behalf we are here assembled—I think I can speak for the large bulk of my own constituents—will expect us not to confine ourselves to that formality, and to those courtesies which, at an ordinary period might have been more congenial to our own dispositions; but to express in language, calm, respectful, and not to be misunderstood, the impressions which the present state of affairs excites in our own minds, and to convey them in the accredited and accustomed manner to the foot of a paternal Throne. In venturing, Sir, to give this advice, I am far from saying that his Majesty's gracious Speech, and the Address, which has been ably moved, and seconded by the hon. Member for Essex, and my noble Friend—whom nobody can know without most highly esteeming—do not contain much matter calculated to give high satisfaction to all those who combine with a fixed attachment to the institutions of their country an anxious wish to see them disencumbered and purified of all their remaining imperfections, and abuses. The Speech lays peculiar stress upon the state of the Church Establishment of England. I can assure my noble Friend that I entertain, and shall go along with him in a resolute determination to receive, any suggestions on that most important subject, come from whatever quarter, and from whatever Administration they may, with a sincere and single wish to adapt them to the most real and solemn interests of the establishment of
 166 167 168 "It was not in the battle—no tempest gave the shock." 169 170 171 172 173
 Lord Sandon rose to move an Address, in answer to the King's Speech. His Lordship commenced by in-treating the indulgence of the House. And then proceeded to the following effect.—However painful or onerous to my mind, the task I have undertaken, however alien or uncongenial to my Parliamentary habits, which have never led me to trespass at length on the attention of the House, or to take a very prominent part in its discussions, yet, when the question was put to me, whether I would discharge this duty, I did not hesitate for a moment as to my answer. I felt it was my duty to show, that having at all times supported the extension of civil and religious liberty to every class of my fellow-subjects, I was not yet prepared to identify myself with those who are the open and avowed enemies of the Established Church. I was anxious to show, that having supported the Reform Bill in all its main stages, I was yet not inclined to put upon it that construction which it has of late been the fashion to force upon it; viz. that it was not so much intended to give to
 152 153 ["Cheering from the Opposition benches"] ["Cheers from the Opposition benches"]. 154 [Cheers from the Opposition benches.] ["No, no!"] 155 [Cheers from the Opposition.] 156 157 158 159 l 160 [Cheers from the Opposition.] 161 162 Bramston 163 164 s. s. s. 165
 Captain Berkeley  said, that at the present momentous crisis it needed no apology from any hon. Member on presenting himself for a few moments to the attention of the House. He had himself been brought up a constitutional Whig, and under the banner of "measures and not men" he would still continue to fight, and should support measures and not men when he thought those measures were for the good of his constituents and of the country at large. Nothing like factious opposition could be saddled upon those who should support the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for Yorkshire, because the House itself had heard from the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, that even if the Amendment should be carried, the Administration would not be upset. He should give an honest, consci-
 256 257
 Lord Stanley  spoke to the following effect: If, Sir, I thought that in voting for the Address, I was voting against the principles laid down by my noble Friend opposite (Lord Morpeth) who moved the Amendment, or, upon the other hand, that by giving such a vote I was necessarily pledging myself to place confidence in the Government, which, looking at its composition, I confess I cannot feel—I should have much doubt as to the vote which I ought to give. I cannot, however, concur in taking that view of the question; and I will proceed, in the few remarks it is my intention to offer to the House, to state broadly and plainly upon what ground it is I think that my duty to my country, as an honest man, will be best discharged, and my own principles of Reform best furthered, by giving my vote against the Amendment. In saying this, allow me to add, that I speak not only my own sentiments, but the sentiments of a body of Gentlemen, not insignificant either in point of numbers or station in this House, who, bent upon the sure but steady attainment of certain measures of Reform, are determined to effect our object by no party course of proceeding, but by such a course as in our own unbiassed judgment we may deem most conducive to the end in view. Allow me, in the first place, before I proceed farther, to express my sense of the very able, temperate, clear, and constitutional manner in which the Amendment was moved by my noble Friend. I do not differ from my noble Friend in the doctrines he has laid down, that for the dismissal of the late Ministry the present Government are, constitutionally speaking, strictly and truly responsible; and that it is within the competency and the undoubted privilege of this House to express an opinion, to pass judgment, and even to offer advice to the Sovereign upon the manner in which he has thought fit to exercise his undoubted prerogative—I agree with my noble Friend in his observations on a circumstance connected with that exercise of the prerogative —I mean the extraordinary concentration of power for a considerable time in the hands of one individual. I agree with my noble Friend that the fact of the illustrious individual in question having so unexceptionably used his powers does not of itself justify the act; but that the high talents and character of the noble Duke would render the
 258 259 260 declaration, 261 262 263
 Dr. Lushington  had listened last night with the deepest anxiety, first to his Majesty's gracious Speech, and next to the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and he must express his cordial approbation of the right hon. Baronet's having upon that occasion so distinctly announced his determination to take upon himself the responsibility, of the dismissal of the late Administration. It was with feelings of extreme gratification that he had heard that great constitutional principle—which heretofore had been controverted in the House of Commons by some of the right hon. Baronet's predecessors — so amply recognised by the right bon. Baronet. This
 264 he 265 266 267 ["No! no!"] 268 269 Macbeth. 270 271
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer:  I gave my distinct opinion in favour of the abolition of Church-rates in Ireland.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer:  It was never opposed by me.
 Mr. Lechmere Charlton,*  after apologising presenting for presenting himself thus early to the House, said that the few remarks he should have to make arose in a great measure from what might, peradventure, be considered a frivolous reason, viz. from the want of a proper understanding of the meaning of one word. He alluded to the word "Reform," which was supposed to be a panacea for all evils—a word somewhat akin to charity, which covered a multitude of sins. If by Reformer was meant a general Reformer of all abuses he was himself at once a declared Reformer; but if that name was intended to imply an advocate of Ballot—of Triennial Parliaments, of the admission of Dissenters to the Universities; then he was not a Reformer in so flagrant an abuse of the word. Even Gentlemen who are advocates for the dismemberment of the Monarchy, and persons calling themselves Whigs, are now-a-days united under the convenient name of Reformers, as if Whigs and persons desirous of dismembering the Monarchy were synonymous. "Against any such doctrine I protest, having imbibed my principles of Whiggism from the early part of the last century, when the principles of Whiggism were laid down, and which consisted, if I remember right, of freedom of election, loyalty to the House of Brunswick, toleration to Dissenters, and the fullest security to the Protestant Church." The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down seemed to have put himself very much beside the question, and in that respect he had only followed in the wake of many hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House who had preceded him. That hon. Gentleman said, that he had not yet heard any reason given respecting the dismissal of the late Ministry. He admitted, that no reason had been given; and he would at the same time take the liberty of telling that hon. Gentleman that he did not consider the present the proper time for mooting that point. He believed the question before the House was, whether hon. Gentlemen would vote for the Address or for the Amendment; and, there-
 * 281 282 Henry Grattan 283 l l 284
 Lord John Russell:  [A revised Edition of the noble Lord's Speech is announced as being about to be prepared for separate publication; and in order not to delay the publication of this work will be found in the  *
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn,  in rising to make some observations on what had fallen from the noble Lord who had just set down, begged, in the first place, to offer his cordial concurrence in the concluding desire which that noble Lord had expressed. He trusted, that whatever might be the decision come to on the question before the House, they would not run into extremes; and in the few observations he should make, be hoped neither to cause nor keep alive ill-feeling. The noble Lord had begun his speech by recalling the attention of the House to the question really to be decided. That question had been in truth, almost forgotten. It was, whether the House would adopt the Motion of his noble Friend, the Member for Liverpool, or the Amendment of the noble Lord, the Member for Yorkshire. He agreed with the noble Lord (Lord John Russel) in thinking, that the main point of difference existed with respect to the question of the Irish Church. He would not then go into all the preliminary remarks made by the noble Lord. He would not embark on the wide and troubled sea of by-gone animosities, which had nothing whatever to do with the question now to be decided. He would only observe this, that when the noble Lord, as an advocate of the consistency of the Members of Lord Melbourne's Government, taunted hon. Gentlemen on his (Mr. Goulburn's) side of the House with having changed their opinions, the attack came with a very ill grace. He had not forgotten the eloquence with which Lord Melbourne had opposed Parliamentary Reform—he had not forgotten Lord Melbourne's advice to that House to keep the old lamp in preference to taking the new —and he had not forgotten, that, even during the late discussions, there had been no exertions in opposition to Reform, which might not, in eloquence, in power, and in spirit, shrink from a comparison with those of Lord Melbourne. He said, then, that a taunt for inconsistency came
 288
 Lord John Russell:  Mr. Speaker—After the speech made last night by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, I think it due to the House, to give such explanations as I can afford of the conduct and intentions of the Administration of Lord Melbourne, of which, as well as of that of Lord Grey, I had the honour to be a Member. Before I do so, however, I will state the reasons which induce me to support the Amendment of my noble Friend. Although no longer connected with office, yet as a Member of Parliament, anxious for the improvement of our institutions, I feel bound to provide that, notwithstanding the dismissal of the Ministry, and the dissolution of the Parliament, the reforms now to be proposed and carried, shall not be less searching in inquiry, or less efficient in remedy, than those upon which it was the intention of the late Administration of Lord Melbourne to have asked the consent of the late Parliament. It is for that reason I am glad my noble Friend behind me has proposed an Amendment to the Address moved on the other side of the House. That Amendment I look upon as a necessary step on several grounds. I look upon it as necessary, because it embraces a declaration of principles on the question of Municipal Corporations, not contained in the Address—because it gives a pledge on the part of the house respecting the claims of the Protestant Dissenters —and, finally, because it touches upon that question which seems to be so carefully avoided in the long and elaborate Speech from the Throne, namely, the abuses of the Irish Church Establishment. 288* 289* 290* ["Hear! hear!" from Sir Robert Peel.] 291* 292* ["Hear hear," from Sir Robert Peel.] 293* 294* 295* 296* 297* "Nusquam tuta fides!" 298* 289 290 291 292
 Mr. Grattan —I made no such charge against you.
 Mr. Baring  said, that he should not have risen but for the allusion made to him by the hon. Member for Southwark, (Mr. Harvey) and the cheer with which the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets had greeted it. The hon. Member for Southwark had stated, that the great commercial interests of the City of London were proved by the last election to be adverse to the Government. It was however, a fact well known to almost every one at all acquainted with the condition of that great city, that in any election that had ever taken place for its numbers and property were never so decidedly at variance. It was perfectly well known to all persons at all conversant with the politics of the City of London, that an Address had been prepared and presented to his Majesty, congratulating him and the country on the accession of the present Ministry; that Address was signed by 5,000 individuals, whose names represented more of real substantial wealth, respectability, and intelligence, than had ever before been appended to such a document on any similar occasion. He was not one of those who was at all disposed to distinguish between different classes of a constituent body. The sitting Members for the Metropolis were undoubtedly returned by a majority of votes; but he did so then merely to correct a mistake into which the House was likely to be led by the broad assertions of hon. Gentlemen opposite on the subject; he felt a justification, and trusted to its good sense for excuse. If he stated, not alone
 301 ["No, no"]. 302 303 304
 Colonel Perceval  was glad he had misconceived the hon. Member, but if he was not mistaken many hon. Members not only on his, but on the other side of the House, were guilty of a like misconception. Be that, however, as it might, he fearlessly asserted, and he called on every Member of that House who was at all acquainted with the principles and feelings of the Association to which the hon. Member for Meath
 285 286 287
 Colonel Perceval  trusted the House would give him a few moments of their attention while he endeavoured to rescue himself, and that party to which he belonged, from the imputations cast upon them by the hon. member for Meath. That hon. Member said, that as he (Colonel Perceval) had avowed himself to be an Orangeman, he was to be considered as a person pledged to the utter extermination of the Catholics of Ireland.
 Mr. Harvey  observed, that the new Administration drew a large draught upon the credulity of the House when they called upon them to suspend their judgment as to the intentions of the present advisers of the Crown, and at the same time they succeeded to a very considerable extent in convincing the country that they were resolved upon disabusing the mind of the people of all vulgar prejudices, as to the value of consistency in public men. They now came before Parliament heedless of the taunts to which their disregard of former principles exposed them, and declaring that the benefits and blessings of freedom which they intended to confer would raise up for them a monument of imperishable fame. Referring to the course which the present debate had taken, he could not but observe the wide discrepancy between the commendations now bestowed upon the Ecclesiastical Commission, and the denunciations with which the right hon. Gentleman, who last spoke, had assailed it in the last Session. Some attempts had been made to defend the grounds upon which the late Parliament had been dissolved—it was very easy to understand why the dissolution took place. If the country had been made fully aware of the
 293 294 295 296 in prospectu? 297 298 299 300
 Mr. Robinson  said, the interval which had elapsed since the Adjournment of the Debate had afforded him an opportunity, in common with many others who had not heard the Speech yesterday, of looking at the Address proposed to be presented to his Majesty, and at the Amendment proposed to be grafted upon it, with all the attention that was due to both. He would commence by confessing that he was not altogether satisfied with the Speech which his Majesty bad been recommended to deliver; for, partaking as it did of all that vagueness which characterized all former compositions of this nature, it was liable to objection from Reformers on account of its important omissions. One of the most important omissions to which he had just adverted was the omission of a declaration of any intention on the part of Government to take up the Report of the Commission on Municipal institutions in the spirit in which that Commission originated. He admitted, however, that the able and eloquent Speech of the right hon. Baronet, which was calculated to make a deep impeession on the public, though it had not influenced his mind to support the Address, had supplied some of the deficiencies which were to be regretted in his Majesty's
 244 245 246 247 248 249 250
 Mr. Winthrop Praed  said, that, in the course which the hon. and learned Gentleman had thought proper to pursue, he had forgotten himself, and had deviated from the usual custom of the House; and, in replying to some observations respecting some address made by him in his capacity elsewhere, the hon. and learned Gentleman appeared to have justified himself on the propriety of the course which he adopted in his capacity of an advocate in the House of Lords. Whatever intemperate expressions that lion. and learned Gentleman might have used as the advocate of Queen Caroline, he, as a far less distinguished member of the bar, but at least as a junior member, gave him the indulgence which the venerable Earl Eldon extended to him. But he would not be led away to give any excuse or indulgence to the grossly intemperate address, made to an already inflamed constituency. It was such conduct as this that produced fearful danger; it led to allusions to subjects in which they had nothing to do. He left the address, however, to the constituency to fight for itself. The hon. and learned Gentleman had found fault with the reasons which had been given last night by the right hon. Baronet for the dissolution of Parliament; and to that part of his speech he (Mr. Praed) proposed to call the attention of the House. In the first place, the right hon. Baronet had stated that the dissolution of Parliament was caused by the secession of the late Ministry; secondly, by the removal of Lord Althorp on the death of his father; and, thirdly, by the memorable letter of the hon. Member for Dublin, addressed to Lord Duncannon. The hon. and learned Gentleman had grossly misrepresented the argument of the right hon. Baronet, when he stated his reasons for the dissolution; because the arguments of the right hon. Baronet was to show, by a series of cases, that, in the state of things, his Majesty was justified in
 272 273 l. 274 l. 275 276 l.
 Mr. Sheil  said, the hon. Gentleman who had preceded him had endeavoured to confound the Administration of Lord Grey, when comprising four Members of the Cabinet who afterwards left it, with the Administration which was afterwards composed under the leadership of Lord Grey when those Members had retired, and a third and distinct Administration, which was composed by Lord Melbourne, upon the express understanding—he should rather
 277 278 Chancellor of the Exchequer:
 Mr. Sheil —No! but he spoke of the party, and might not the junction of the right hon. Baronet with the party be taken as some evidence of the policy to be adopted by him, or in any event, as an argument against silence upon such points, when he comes before the country with a desire to set his future policy against his past conduct. They needed something better than vague promises, for deception lurked in vagueness. He must next say, that the grounds which had been alleged as the causes of the ejectment of the late Administration had no solidity; that it was absurd to attribute it to the vacancy in the leadership in the House of Commons, occasioned by Lord Althorp's elevation, since the House was not then sitting, and did not therefore require a leader; and that it could not have originated in the measures regarding the Church of Ireland, since the Commission of Inquiry had been issued, and all
 279 280
 Mr. Sheil  said, he spoke with the utmost sincerity when he said, that he had the greatest satisfaction in being corrected upon this point. Did not the right hon. Baronet (continued the learned Gentleman) oppose any diminution of the revenues of the Bishops and the number of bishoprics, which the noble Lord, the Member for Lancashire so strenuously advocated, as to lead for a moment to the belief that he was a strong and earnest Reformer? And if the right hon. Baronet did not oppose the abolition of Church-rates in Ireland, were the Dissenters of England furnished with no argument in favour of a similar measure for this country. For what reason, then, was the Address silent upon this subject? Was anything to be done? Why, when there was a specification of the intentions of the Government as to the marriage of Dissenters, was this other grievance, which affected them wholly, overlooked? Again, did not the party to which the right hon. Baronet belonged oppose the Bill for the Amendment of the Administration of Justice in Ireland.
 Mr. Ward  said, that he differed entirely from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, and especially upon the grounds upon which he conceived every Reformer ought to be actuated on the present occasion. He must, however, apologize for obtruding himself a few minutes upon the attention of the House, and his main inducement was attributable to the charge which had been made by several speakers of a factious opposition against his (Mr. Ward's) side of the House—a charge which, if not specifically brought forward, had certainly been hinted at last night by the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government, as applicable to all those who refused to support a Ministry willing to carry out practical Reforms, a Ministry thereby entitled to the support of every honest and conscientious man. The right hon. Baronet had certainly used the words "factious opposition" several times in the course of his speech, to which he (Mr. Ward) had listened with great delight, but which certainly had failed in his instance to carry conviction with it. He certainly had never seen Conservatism dressed out in such fanciful colours, nor the distinction between the two sides of the House so skilfully described, as in the speech last night of the right hon. Baronet. It should be his (Mr. Ward's) endeavour
 251 252 Stormont 253 No 254
 Viscount Stormont  rejoiced that the hon. Member for St. Alban's had afforded him an opportunity of giving a denial of the words imputed to him, and quoted by the hon. Gentleman. He admitted that, as had appeared in the papers, he had used on the occasion in question the phrase "be hated the word Reform," but the newspapers had not had the justice, the fairness, the candour, or the charity, to subjoin the remainder of the sentence. He had certainly
 255 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought that the hon. Member could scarcely be in earnest in bringing forward so important a Motion in such a thin House. It was not a proposition to which, as far as he was personally concerned, it would be his interest to object, as of course the Chief Minister of the Crown, who was obliged to give such incessant attendance there, would be too happy to have an excuse to retire from public business at an early hour. But the fact was, that it was quite clear that the whole condition of the public business must be reviewed before a regulation of the kind could be adopted. If such a change were introduced, it would limit the hours for public business to six. If, indeed, they commenced business at ten o'clock in the morning, as was the ancient usage, it might be possible to make some such regulation. But before they introduced such a change now, it would be necessary, as he had already said, to review all the circumstances and condition of the public business, and also the private arrangements of Members of Parliament. Above all, it should be recollected that a great portion of their public duties was transacted in Committees, and that, too, of the most useful description to the public. The Debates in that House were very often the contentions of party, and were not unfrequently taken up with long and unnecessary speeches, while the real business of the country was done in Com-
 322
 Mr. O'Connell  reminded the House, that in all other legislative assemblies business was done at reasonable hours. The House of Commons was the only public assembly in the world at which public business of so important a character was transacted at such late hours. There were a thousand things occurred by candlelight which would not bear the open light of day. Levity was frequently exhibited on the discussion of interests which required the gravest deliberation. The Representatives of France usually finished their discussions by five o'clock in the afternoon. The Representatives of America also finished their business by an early hour—and why? Because they began early in the day. He thought that the business of the House ought to commence at eight or nine o'clock in the morning. Why should they not commence at as early an hour as the Courts of Law? It would be a great improvement on their present practice to commence at half-
 324
 Sir Roger Greisley  should not be discharging his duty to his constituents if he gave a silent vote upon the present occasion. He could not help expressing his deep dissatisfaction at the very scanty and insignificant mention which had been made of the distresses of the agricultural classes; a class which had borne their injuries with more patience than any other in the community. He regretted that so little notice was taken of these distresses, because he knew, that the agricultural
 337
 Mr. Sergeant Goulburn  said, that in asking for the courtesy of the House to a Member coming among them for the first time, he should endeavour to compress what he had to say within the narrowest possible compass. With regard to the form of the Amendment, it was conceded on all hands that it was not what it pretended to be; that it professed to be one thing, but its real object was evidently an-
 356 ["Assent from both sides."] 357 [Here there were some cries of "No, No!"] 358 bonâ fide 359 360
 Mr. Grove Price  stated, that he considered it to be a matter of great regret, that the noble Lord who had just sat down should feel it his duty to vote against the Address, as well from his high character, as from the opinions he had expressed with reference to the present crisis. He regretted, too, extremely, that any attacks should have been made on the character of an illustrious individual, a Member of the other House, who had
 383 384 385
 Mr. Baring  rose to explain: he said he had been charged by the hon. Member who spoke last, with having spoken of his constituency with disrespect; but, he begged to say, that he made no observation on his borough of Finsbury. What he did say was this—and it was not in any argument of his provoking, but in answer to remarks that had been made by the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets,—that hon. and learned Gentleman said that the Government had against them all the wealth and respectability of the metropolis, to which he replied, that though, undoubtedly, those hon. Members who had been returned for the Metropolitan districts, were seated constitutionally by the numbers entitled to send them to the House, still the petition sent up to the Throne, signed as he knew it to have been signed, did prove that as large a portion of the wealth and respectability of the city of London had expressed confidence in his Majesty's Government. He begged to assure the hon. Gentleman, that
 390
 Mr. O'Connell  spoke as follows:—Sir, it appears to me that if there be a factious Opposition, there is also such a thing as factious support. There has been a coalition adverted to on the one side, and there may be a coalition of excessively bad materials, equally deserving of ridicule or reprobation, on the other. I assure the House, that I feel sincere regret that it is my duty to trespass on them at all on this occasion; and if I could reconcile it to my sense of the duty I owe to my unfortunate and neglected country.  [Laughter.] 395 396 catalogue raisonnée beau idéal 397 398 "Down thy bill, romantic Ashbourne, glides The Derby dilly, with his six insides." 399 alibi beau idéal à priori, 400 R. Greisley 401 402 l. 403 404 405 ["No, no?"] 406 [Calls of "Question"] bona fide 407 ["No! No!"] 408
 Mr. Baring  was at a loss to know why the hon. Gentleman applied this observation to him personally.
 Mr. O'Connell : How is it possible that the right hon. Gentleman can suppose that I meant to make any improper allusion to him? I was merely speaking of his ability in matters of finance. I do not mean to say, that the right hon. Gentleman has ever heard of these malpractices; still less do I accuse him of participation in them. If, however, the right hon. Gentleman has not heard of them before, he has heard of them now; and no man in this House will venture to deny the truth of his charges. I have done. I know that I have been compelled in the course of my address, to introduce irritating topics, and raise unpleasant feelings; but if the things I have uttered are unpleasant to hon. Members to hear, what must be the feelings they excite in the breasts of those who are doomed to witness and suffer from them? Let the House not think that it is my wont or pleasure to assail the defenceless, or make sport with the character of the stainless and innocent; but I ever will denounce a Government which supports, and is itself upheld by, a faction condemned by the spirit of laws proposed by themselves.
 Mr. Fox Maule  would have wished to have had some experience in that House before he addressed it; and he should not so soon have offered himself to its notice, but for one or two points touched upon, and in direct personal allusion made to himself by the hon. Member who had just sat down. The funeral oration which had been pronounced over the old system of voting, as
 344
 Mr. Maule  believed that there was not only a majority of Members, but there was a majority of the property in the towns in favour of the Melbourne Administration. Now, before he would go further, he would put the case of the hon. Member for Inverness, and on referring to his own election, it would be found that very nearly throughout that borough, which had done him the honour of returning him, property, as it existed there, showed no such feeling as the hon. Member himself ascribed to it. He found that constituency so much divided that the hon. Member sat in that House by a more majority of four. But let them look to the whole of the boroughs of Scotland, and he might safely say, that the hon. Member was the only borough Representative in Scotland, who sat on the other side of the House. Surely from that hon. Member's own case, taken with all the other boroughs in Scotland, it must be admitted, that the majority of the property in those other boroughs was favourable to the late Administration—with regard to the counties in Scotland, in some instances, he was afraid that the constituency were obliged to follow their conscientious feelings at the risk of their temporal interests. And the county which he had the honour to represent, he would say, confirmed this observation, for the landed
 345 in toto, 346
 Mr. Grantley Berkeley  regretted the
 336
 Lord Dudley Stuart :—I am anxious to notice an observation of the hon. Gentleman opposite, the Member for Stamford, and I am much surprised that it has not been animadverted upon by any hon. Gentleman on this side of the House. Various opinions have been expressed with regard to the dissolution of the late Ministry; various opinions have been set forth with reference to the merits of the Melbourne Administration; but such a declaration as that which has emanated from the hon. Gentleman opposite I did not think any person, either in this House or in any assembly in the country, would have had what I must call the assurance to pronounce. The declaration made by that hon. Gentleman was, in substance, an insult to the late Parliament, or at least to the majority of the late Parliament—it was an insult to the majority, as I believe it to be, of the present Parliament—and it was an insult to the great majority of the nation. The hon. Gentleman delivered it as his opinion that no honest man did, in his heart, approve of the Melbourne Administration. I have only to appeal to the country at large whether they agree with the hon. Gentleman? I, for one, claim for myself the character and feelings of an honest man—as such I stand here; and I tell the hon. Gentleman—I tell the House—and I tell the country, that I did approve of the Melbourne Administration, and that I deeply regret the dismissal of that Administration. Moreover, I tell the hon. Gentleman that in this opinion and in these sentiments I am joined by the majority of this House. I have said thus much, Sir, because I could not forbear noticing the wonderful declaration of the hon. Gentleman. I shall now apply myself to the question before the House. I am free to admit that I feel some embarrassment upon the present occasion. I have no wish whatever to join in any factious vote. I have no wish to give to the present Administration any factious opposition. That declaration I have already made to my constituents on
 351 352 353 354 [Hear, hear."] 355
 Major Bruce  observed, that what he had, he believed, said, was, that while a proportion of the Members in Scotland were favourable to the late Administration, he believed that a majority of the property of the country was favourable to the present Administration.
 Major Beauclerk  agreed with the right hon. Baronet in thinking that they should
 323
 Mr. O'Dwyer,  amidst the strongest manifestations of impatience, persisted in demanding a hearing. The hon. Member was understood to complain of the language used by the last speaker towards his hon. and learned Friend who had just left the House (Mr. O'Connell). He had assailed his hon. and learned Friend as an agitator. He was an agitator; but it was for the liberties of his country. The right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Shaw) was himself an agitator; but he made his agitation auxiliary to his personal profit and honour. It was agitation that made him a Member of Parliament—it was agitation, in like manner, that had made him a Privy Councillor—and from the same fertile source the right hon. and learned Gentleman had reaped honours which had, in his case, been squandered and alienated from their right channel as the reward of public services. He warned the right hon. and learned gentleman, that he was opposing himself to a power which he would find too strong for him.
 Major Cumming Bruce  assured the House he would not have trespassed upon their attention, had it not been for the observations which had fallen from the hon. Member who had just sat down, and lie should only occupy their attention for a few minutes. The hon. Member had commenced by stating that a great majority of the people of Scotland were averse to a change in the Councils of his Majesty, and that the opinion of a great majority of the people of Scotland were adverse to Sir Robert Peel obtaining that fair trial which he sought for. Now, he had much reliance upon the intelligent people of Scotland; they acknowledged the integrity of the right hon. Baronet, and of his colleagues in office, and they were, he asserted, prepared to give him that fair trial. The hon. Member was justified in his opinion to a certain degree, by the returns made to that House. But it was only fair to say, and he was sure the hon. Member would not deny the justice of the observation, that in Scotland, as elsewhere, there was a great diversity of opinion. What should be the observation made with respect to the towns in Scotland? He was ready to grant that a proportion of them was against the change; but as the Member for Southwark had introduced a curious and a new definition in political economy, "the holders of large masses of property" sanctioned the change. He appealed to Edinburgh, to Glasgow, and to those other places where it was well known that a great majority of the citizens possessing property recognised with satisfaction the late change. But, if it was the case, that large aggregate numbers were unfavourable to the change in the towns, what, he would ask, occurred in the counties of Scotland, where it was said a great majority were favourable to the policy pursued by the late Administration, or rather to the late Administration itself. With regard to the county of Haddington, the Member for which had spoken upon the first night, he would observe that that hon. Member had been returned by a very narrow majority. What, then, was the case with the great county of Perth. There it could not, at least, be contended but that a very large portion of the constituency expressed an opinion favourable to a Member of the present Administration. What was the case with Inverness, with which he had the honour of being immediately connect-
 341 [Cries of "No!"]. [Cries of "Oh, oh!] l. 342 343
 Mr. Maclean  fully agreed with the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, that it was becoming in a young Member of that House to sit and acquire some little experience before he presented himself to the consideration of the House; but he would say, that he was placed in a difficult position, because he either must affirm that the Address in answer to his Majesty's Speech, responded to the views which had been stated by the Prime Minister; or he must concede to the noble Lord, the Member for Yorkshire, that the Address which it was proposed to carry up to his Majesty, was so vague and so indefinite, as not to speak the sentiments of his Majesty's faithful Commons. Now be begged to say that he was standing in the situation of a new Member of that House, listening with diligence to the arguments upon both sides, and he was unable to extract from the Gentlemen opposed to him upon this occasion any single reason why he should vote for the Amendment of the noble Lord. The noble Lord stated that he considered the Address as indecisive and indefinite, and the speech of the right hon. Baronet, the first Minister of the Crown, not a satisfactory explanation of the principles upon which the Ministry were about to act. How, he would ask the noble Lord, did that declaration tally with what they had
 347 348 349 "Humano capiti cervicem pictor equinam Jungere si velit, et varias inducere plumas Undique collatis membris, ut turpiter atrum Desinat in piscem mulier formosa superne; Spectatum admissi risum teneatis, amici?" "Sed non ut placidis coëant immitia, non ut Serpentes avibus geminentur, tigribus agni." 350
 Mr. Mullins  felt himself called upon, in the name of his constituents, to express in the strongest language his dissatisfaction with, and disapprobation of, the course of conduct of the right hon. Baronet, and his colleagues, since he had assumed the Seals of office. He had listened with all the attention which he could command to the speech of the right hon. Baronet, and to the speeches of those hon. Members who had followed on the same side, and he had endeavoured in vain to discover whether there was any one good solid reason for the dismissal of the late Ministers; and he must say, that he had not heard one single argument, one single syllable in the shape of a solid reason, why such a recommendation should have been given to his Majesty, or why the House of Commons, which had supported the anxious desires of the British Empire generally, should have been dissolved. He could show good reasons, why that Parliament should not have been dissolved, and why the right hon. Baronet who had taken upon himself the responsibility of an act, which might involve that House in collision with the other House, which every honest man had an interest in avoiding, should be made answerable for it. The reason alleged for the breaking up of the late Cabinet was, that Lord Melbourne had informed his Majesty that he could no longer carry on the Government. Now the fact was,
 326 327 328 329 330
 Mr. Shaw  observed, that it was not his intention to detain the House many minutes. Without meaning the slightest disrespect to the hon. and learned Memtleman who had just sat down, without intending to disparage his great talents, or deny his general power to make an impression upon the House, he must plainly and in perfect sincerity tell him that his speech upon this occasion was an utter failure, and that he had made no impression whatever upon the House that night. He understood that he should have an an opportunity upon the bringing up of the Report to make a few observations. He was in that House as an independent Member of the United Parliament, pledged by his feelings and his duty to apply himself to the promotion of the common interests of the United Empire. Upon the bringing up of the Report he hoped to be able to show who it was that kept alive the spirit of faction in Ireland; for whose pleasure and to whose profit that spirit was kept up there. He had but one word more, which he believed the house would be glad to hear; it was, that amongst the moderate men of all parties and politics—and he was happy to add, of all religions in Ireland, there existed a strong desire to get rid of that odious system of agita-
 410
 Mr. Finch  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had expended some time in endeavouring to make out that the late dissolution in Parliament was unjustifiable, and that the right hon. Baronet had failed to justify his conduct in advising his Majesty to adopt that step. It was undoubtedly the opinion of hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House that the right of dissolving the Parliament was a Constitutional right, wisely deposited in the hands of the Crown. There it ought to be inviolate, but, at the same time, it must be admitted that under a limited Monarchy this prerogative must be exercised with all due respect for public opinion. Looking at the late dissolution with these opinions, still he was sure that the Government could boldly meet any charge which upon this subject might be brought against them. He might be imperfectly acquainted with the history of his country, but as far as his, knowledge extended he knew no instance in which the prerogative of the Crown had been so
 331 332 333 334 335
 Mr. Hume  said, that the question to be decided was, whether the business of the House was well done or not under the present arrangements. He thought that it was quite impossible for any one who saw the mode in which they legislated after one or two o'clock in the morning, to say that business was well done. Something ought to be done to remedy this inconvenience in the present Session.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  wished to give his reasons for withholding his support from the Amendment. The King's Speech should be looked on fairly, and without prejudice, as an exposition of the principles of the Minister, and the mode in which he meant to carry on his Government, without reference to party views or political antipathies. He was no partisan, he was actuated by no selfish or political feeling, but he was resolved to do his duty to his country, his constituents, and his King. His object was to establish Government on those secure foundations that alone must lead to the solidity and perpetuity of any Government, namely, the advocacy of popular privileges, so far as those rights were not inconsistent with, and alien from, the maintenance of the sacred and acknowledged privileges and prerogatives of other branches of the Legislature. He was, then, no partisan. He wished to support the Government in carrying onward those measures that could justify any Government in demanding the sympathies of the country and the support of her Representatives. He was an unpledged man. He was there to use his judgment as well for the Ministry as for the country, and impartially for both; and reluctantly was he dragged to the determination of voting against those
 373 374 375
 Mr. Thomas S. Duncombe  would not have intruded himself upon the House when so many Members desired to address it, had he not been compelled in consequence of the speech made yesterday by the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, in which, among other things, he stated that the wealth, respectability, and intelligence of the metropolitan districts, as well as of the city of London, were not represented in the present House of Commons. To that assertion, he, as one of the metropolitan Members, rose to give the most unqualified contradiction, and to assure the right hon. Gentleman, that of all the mis-statements he had ever been guilty of, and the number was not small, the one to which he alluded stood the most prominent. He confessed, that when the Reform Bill passed, he expected there would have been an end of those bitter sarcasms which, previous to that event, used to be so constantly levelled against Reformers by the party now in power, and by none of them more incessantly than by the right hon. Gentleman who filled the post of President of the Board of Trade. While the Reform Bill was under discussion, allowance was made for the naturally soured feelings of the right hon. Gentleman when he saw his favourite Callington stealing as it were from under him; but now that the indi-
 386 387 [Loud laughter.] imperium in imperio, 388 389
 Mr. Gisborne  said, that if he felt any
 361 362 363 364 l. 365 l. l. l. "Parliamentary Debates." 366 felo de se, 367 "The Twopenny Post-bag." "We have lost the warm hearts of the Irish 'tis granted; But then we've got Java, an island much wanted To put the last lingering few who remain Of the Walcheren warriors out of their pain." 368 "Thrift, thrift, Horatio! The election bak'd meats Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables." 369 sine qua non." l." 370 371 Chancellor of the Exchequer, across the Table, 372
 Mr. Gisborne  said, that the words of the right hon. Baronet, which he had quoted, were these—"that in his (Sir James Graham's) opinion, the present Administration was composed of the very worst possible materials—of men who had spent their entire lives in promoting bad Government, and opposing good."
 Mr. Ewart  thought, that there was not much value in the right hon. Baronet's observation, that an hon. Member who was anxious to postpone the discussion of any Bill, would prolong the peroration of his speech so as to occupy their time till after eleven o'clock. The argument possessed more ingenuity than solidity. There was a great prodigality and waste of time in their present system of late hours. He would therefore put an end to it at once. He did not make this proposition merely for the convenience of the House—he looked to the advantage of the nation, which required that its business should be done at seasonable hours, Of order that it should be well done. Of course business would be better conducted at natural hours than at unnatural hours. It had been very truly remarked by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, that this was the only legislative assembly in the
 325
 Mr. Ewart  rose to move, that no public business of importance should be introduced after eleven o'clock at night. He had a strong impression of the necessity of such a regulation as this, both as respected the Members of that House and the public. At such a late hour, the House was generally in an exhausted state, and it was then impossible to do business properly. He was of opinion, that the plan he proposed was the only mode for securing sound and rational legislation. It was well known that at present a great deal of the most important business of the House was transacted after midnight, when Members were unable effectually to discharge their duty to the public, and were most of them slumbering on the benches. It was at such times as these that advantage was taken to smuggle obnoxious Bills through the House, and it was also on such occasions, that those who opposed Bills, had an opportunity of throwing them out. He scarcely knew any assembly in the world that carried on its Debates at such late hours as that House. Indeed, the only assembly he could find that did so
 321 Sleep the tir'd Members slumbering all around, And sleep the Clerks below.
 Mr. Gillon  said, it was his intention to support the Amendment, although he could not entirely concur in the terms of it; although it wanted some of that force and vigour which at a period like the present the people had a right to expect at their hands; and although it failed in some degree to make manifest that feeling to which he intended to give expression by his vote, a feeling which he shared with the overpowering majority of his countrymen, namely, a total want of confidence in the promises or the professions of his Majesty's present advisers. When the nation beheld all the political principles of a great and powerful party suddenly abandoned—when it heard them adopting, with two exceptions, those measures which were the leading features of the policy of the late Administration, so unceremoniously dismissed—what could it think but that their conduct was a tribute of respect to the great principles of Reform, unwillingly wrung from the lips of its adversaries—a cloak adopted to suit the exigences of the time, and which, when they should once have established themselves in power, might as speedily be thrown off. He did think, notwithstanding what he believed to be the sincere declaration of the right hon. Baronet, that the provisions of the Reform Bill itself would not be safe, should his party be enabled to establish themselves in power. An appeal had lately been made to the people, and in no portion of the empire had it been more nobly responded to than in Scotland. The people of that country had by a majority of more than two to one of their Representatives, declared that they would not place their liberties at the feet of a party, the fruits
 338 339
 Sir James Graham  resumed. What he said was, the Government was now formed of men to whom, and to whose measures, he had all his life been opposed; that in such an Administration he could not place unlimited confidence; but that, not seeing his way to the formation of a better, he was resolved to resist any factious Motion, the tendency of which might be to displace such an Administration as was then formed. Such were the sentiments he expressed in Cumberland, and by those he was prepared to abide. He had that night come down to the House at great personal inconvenience, to explain the grounds upon which he was prepared to oppose the Amendment; it still remained for him to notice the point to which he wished more particularly to refer—he wished to give the most direct contradiction possible to a rumour which had been recently set afloat. The propagation of such rumours
 394 "Non hœn in Fœdera veni."
 Sir James Graham  said, that nothing had been further from his intention in coming down to the House, than to obtrude himself upon its attention on the present occasion; indeed, suffering under very acute pain and general indisposition, which would in ordinary circumstances, have prevented his attendance in that place, he certainly should not have taken any part in the discussion had he not been personally alluded to by the hon. Member for Derbyshire (Mr. Gisborne), with regard to something which he was reported to have lately addressed to his constituents, and also more directly by the hon. Member for Finsbury, who had just sat down. Under these circumstances, he should fail in the duty he owed to the House, to himself, and his constituents, if he did not rise and vindicate in his place what he was represented to have said. He was quite prepared to act up to what he had told his constituents at the late election would be his conduct in the trying circumstances in which his Majesty and the country were now placed. It having been his misfortune towards the close of last Session, from a painful sense of duty on a question of principle, to separate himself for the time from those with whom he had acted ever since he took a part in public affairs, it was necessary that he should explicitly state to those constituents what had been the motives of his past conduct, and what were the principles by which he should regulate his conduct in the present Session. He need not tell the House, that having for eighteen years uniformly acted as a party man, having felt during that time the strongest personal attachments, and never having deviated from party consistency,—respecting, revering, as he did, many Gentlemen he saw opposite, occupying the Bench where he used to sit, it was impossible to find terms wherewith adequately to express the pain with which he had separated from them. It was some consolation, that there were Gentlemen with whom he had acted during a portion of that time who still coincided with him in opinion; yet, having that consolation, he was sincere when he said, that his respect for many of the leaders of the old Whig party remained un-
 391 392 393
 Viscount Howick  was not surprised that the hon. Member who had just sat down, although he agreed in many of the opinions of those on the Opposition side of the House, should yet have come to the conclusion to vote against the Amendment. It appeared to him (Viscount Howick) that the question the House was now discussing had been much misrepresented in the speeches of the two hon. Members who had immediately preceded him. He was surprised to hear the hon. Member for Derbyshire acquiesce in what seemed to be the extraordinary mis-statement of the question at issue made by the hon. and learned Sergeant who preceded him. The hon. and learned Sergeant had commenced by complaining that the Amendment proposed was not fair, because it said one thing while it really meant another; and then deceived himself, as many profoundly
 376 377 378 379 380 381 382
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer said, the question involved so many important points, that he was not prepared at the moment to give an answer as to the course which Government intended to pursue. That in the New Boroughs provision ought to be made for an efficient police, and the due administration of justice, he had no doubt: the measures he had introduced in furtherance of these objects in the metropolis, evinced what his views on these points were. Whether it was in contemplation to extend corporations was another question: he would not say that he should object to the principle of such a measure, but, in the first place, he was not quite sure that the towns themselves were desirous of such a distinction, and even if they were, it was not to be granted without the most serious consideration. The Report of the Municipal Commissioners would throw a very great light on this subject. He was under an impression that the Bill which Lord Brougham had introduced, for the purpose of giving the New Boroughs corporations, had not met with the universal assent of the towns themselves. The great expense incurred in incorporating a town was felt as a very great objection. At any rate, it was advisable that the question should be postponed, at least till the House had had an opportunity of considering the Municipal Commissioners' Report, from which it would appear whether it was advisable to increase the number of boroughs, and if it were advisable, what defects in the present system were to be avoided.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley perfectly agreed with the concluding observation of his right hon. Friend who had just sat down. He should think it very bad taste on his part if, after the long discussion that had taken place, he should enter afresh upon the stage, and attempt to detain the House at any length upon the subject of the Address or the Amendment. But the personal imputation that had been cast upon him by the hon. Member for Middlesex, induced him to claim the indulgence of the House for a few moments, and a few moments only. In the position which he occupied as a public man, he must look to his public character; and he was not afraid to put the consistency of that, or the merits of his private character, in competition with either the public or private character of the hon. Member for Middlesex, who, in his peculiar manner, had thought proper to attack him personally. The hon. Member quoted from some newspaper an account of a meeting which was stated to have taken place at the house of the noble Lord the Member for Lancashire. The very first part of that account, which described Lord Arthur Lennox as being present at the meeting, was false and unfounded, for Lord Arthur Lennox was at that moment in Scotland. As far as it related to himself, he was ready to state, that he did attend the meeting held at the house of his noble Friend, the Member for Lancashire; and he was proud to say further, that he fully acquiesced in the opinions his noble Friend entertained upon all general subjects of Reform; and he would tell the hon. Member for Middlesex, although he (Sir M.W. Ridley), and his noble Friend, and those who thought with him, were not prepared to vote that black was white—although they were not prepared to say one thing one day, and to vote another the next—although they did not attempt to gain a temporary popularity by truckling to popular passion, they were prepared to go on as honestly and as conscientiously in the Reform, not only of alleged abuses, but of everything that was found to operate prejudicially to the institutions of the country, as the hon. Member himself. He
 452 453
 Mr. Feargus O' Connor agreed with the recommendation already given, that it would be better to refrain from any observations on the Address or Amendment, since those questions had been already so fully discussed. He begged to congratulate the right hon. Baronet, (Sir Robert Peel) on the support he had received from the noble Member for Lancashire, and the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Cumberland. He, and several other Irish Members, had been accused of giving themselves up and binding themselves to the opinions of the hon, and learned Member for Dublin. There was nothing to justify such an assertion—there was nothing in the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin to show so strong an ambition in him as there was in that of the noble Lord (Lord Stanley) who declared himself the head of the Army of Observation on the other side of the House.
 454 Of all the plagues offended Heaven can send, Save me, oh save me, from a wily friend. 455 456 Chancellor of the Exchequer:
 Mr. William Williams said, that there was one part of the King's Speech upon which he felt himself called upon to make some observations. The statement to which he alluded was that which referred to the satisfactory state of the trade and commerce of the country. He wished he
 460
 Colonel Evans  said, he had not given his vote from any motive of factious opposition, but supported the Amendment from a conscientious conviction of its necessity.
 Mr. G. F. Young said he felt it necessary to make a few observations, as he was one of those Members who voted for the Address, and against whom so unjust an
 461 462
 Sir Henry Hardinge did not think the question of the hon. Gentleman quite fair, seeing that a notice of Motion stood upon the Order-book for the production of the letter referred to by the hon. Gentleman. If the hon. Gentleman had reflected, or had had more experience in that House, he would not, under the circumstances, have put such a question.
 Sir Henry Hardinge had attended the
 457 458 459
 Mr. Herbert Curteis was not so young in that House as to stand in need of the lessons of the right hon. Baronet. A vote of thanks to men who had sacrificed the lives of their fellow-men before the proper tribunal had pronounced upon the character of the act, was premature and improper. By such conduct the Government departed from that line of neutrality which they were bound to observe. If the men tired without the order of the civil power, they were guilty of murder. The dismissal of the late Government was, in his opinion, most uncourteous and improper. That dismissal would not advance the purpose of the right hon. Baronet. The House, however, had been told, that if they dared to do their duty, they would again he sent to their constituents. He had no hesitation in saying, that if the Ministers should take such a step under the present circumstances, they would merit the fate of the Polignac ministry, and that he would not drop one tear of pity for their sufferings. He placed no confidence in the Government, and he saw no reason if measures of Reform were to be brought forward, why the country should not receive them from the hands of those men to whom it was indebted for the Reform Bill.
 Mr. Herbert Curteis considered the attacks made upon his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume) as most unjustifiable. No Member of that House had done so much for the country as his hon. Friend. He would venture to say, that the country would never have had the benefit of any of those reductions of expenditure effected by the Tory Governments, had it not been for the unremitting assiduity of his hon. Friend in forcing upon the attention of
 463
 Mr. Emerson Tennent, though unwilling to obtrude himself in the debate, yet, having been so pointedly and personally attacked by the hon. Member for Middlesex, he was still anxious to avail himself of an opportunity of stating to the House those motives and principles by which he was actuated in supporting the original Address, and in adopting generally the course which he had made up his mind to pursue towards his Majesty's present Ministers. In doing so, he should not intrude upon the House any strictures of his own upon the individual merits of the topics embodied in the Address, and proposed in the Amendment of the noble Lord (Lord Morpeth,) with only one exception, and that solely because he was by his position interested and connected with that question—he referred to the subject of Municipal Corporations. He felt that he could safely omit the others for two reasons; first, because on the majority of them, his sentiments were perfectly in accordance with those expressed on a previous night by the noble Lord beside him (Lord Stanley); and, secondly, because it must be sufficiently evident to the House, that neither their merits nor their defects entered in the slightest degree into the calculations of the Opposition, whose sole and only object but too evidently was, to defeat that Address and its movers, let its merits and its contents
 441 442 * * * 443 444 445 446 447 448 449
 Mr. Richards was understood to say, that the characters of the Gentlemen whom the hon. Member for Middlesex had thought proper to attack were, to say the least, as pure, as unsullied, and as patriotic as those of the hon. Member and his associates; and he would add, that when the hon. Member charged those Gentlemen with dishonourable conduct, he stated that which was absolutely false.
 Mr. Hume said, it had been his intention to have addressed the House on the bringing up of the Report; but the an-
 426 427 [laughter prevented the Hon. Member from concluding his sentence]. 428 429 gentlemen, 430 431 432 433 434 [Laughter.] 435 [A laugh.] 436 l. l. 437 l. 438
 Mr. Hume  begged to state, that he had never mentioned the hon. Member, nor did he know that the hon. Member had been of the party at the house of the noble Lord (Stanley).
 Mr. Ainsworth 424 wished to know, whether the right hon. Baronet, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, contemplated making the New Boroughs Corporations, and if so, whether he intended to establish the election of the public officers on the foundation of the 10 l.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood said, he had that day received a letter of remonstrance from his constituents against that part of the Speech from the Throne which represented trade as in a flourishing condition. This his constituents treated as a mockery of their sufferings. Excepting in Lancashire, and there not among the mass of the people, he knew of no part of England where capital produced a return, or the working classes were not in a state of great depression. When agriculture was
 464 l., s. d.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton wished to put a question of considerable importance to the hon. Gentleman, the Under-Secretary for the Colonies. He wished to know what steps had been taken, or were likely to be taken, for providing for the education of the negroes in the Colonies?
 Mr. Fowell Buxton had another question which he was desirous to take this opportunity of asking. It was highly important that persons should be appointed as special Magistrates who had no connection or interest in common with the West-India body. He wished to know, whether the persons who had been appointed in Jamaica, were individuals of this description, or whether, in fact, any of the ordinary Magistrates of the Colony had been appointed.
 Mr. Spring Rice rested the vote which he had given upon the question of the Address upon the principles upon which he had always acted, and which had been so well explained by his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell). The able manner in which his noble Friend in his speech of the other evening had vindicated the line of conduct which he and those who acted with him thought it their duty to pursue, more than justified the confidence that he had always been disposed to place in his noble Friend. He begged to state, that his noble Friend was not self-elected to the position which he occupied upon that (the Opposition) side of the House. He had been placed there by the approving voice of the whole Whig party. After the pointed and impressive manner in which his noble Friend had contradicted the assertion that had been made, that a difference of opinion existed between him and his noble Friend, and a noble Lord in another place, he should not have felt it necessary to obtrude for a single moment
 450 451
 Mr. Gladstone was unable to say that such persons had not been appointed as special Magistrates in any case. Thus much, however, he could say, that no person interested in the West-India Colonies had been appointed as a special Magistrate in the Island of Jamaica. It was impossible to give any absolute pledge upon the subject, because the Governor of the Colony retained, under the Act, the power of doing anything which was necessary, in his judgment, for the preservation of its peace and tranquillity. It was important that the hon. Gentleman and the House should be aware that the Governor of Jamaica had refused his assent to an Act making the appointment of these Magistrates absolutely necessary and a matter of course, and that his conduct met with the fullest approbation of the Government and of the Colony. Nothing was further from the wish of the English Government—nothing was further from the wish of the Colonial Government—nothing could be more improper than that that appointment should be deemed a matter of necessity in every case.
 Mr. William Gladstone said, that it was not very easy to reply to the question in a few words. All he could say was, that since the present Government had entered office, the attention of the noble Lord at the head of the Colonial Department had been most anxiously directed to the subject. A very short time before he received the Seals of office, circular letters had been sent to all the West-India Colonies, demanding from all the religious bodies and Ecclesiastical authorities engaged in promoting education and religious worship there, very full information as to the extent of means existing. Of course, before the Government could be enabled to decide upon the amount of instruction required, they must be in possession of the fullest information as to the amount at present existing. The returns were now arriving daily. One or two Colonies had already sent them; but it was impossible to adopt any definitive measure until the whole had arrived: by that time, he hoped,
 465
 Mr. Cobbett hoped that, whatever might be done with reference either to new or old boroughs, the House would resist the introduction to any of them of such a Bourbon police force as disgraced the metropolis—a set of spies going sneaking about in coloured clothes.
 Mr. Finn was so averse from his Majesty's present Ministers that he should feel it his duty to give them his most strenuous opposition. In doing that he was not leagued with a faction, but with the whole people of Ireland who were determined not to be satisfied with the manner in which that country had been governed, or rather misgoverned for ages. They complained, and with great justice, of the hardship of persons being compelled to support a religion they did not profess, and neither the people of England nor of Scotland would endure having money taken out of their pockets,  nolens volens,
 Mr. Hughes Hughes said, that as the hon. Member for Middlesex had alluded to him, he begged to state to the House that he never was under the roof of the noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire in his life, neither had he ever had communication, oral or written, with
 440
 Mr. W. Roche said, that the mischievous consequences of the Tithesystem in Ireland were now coming home to England, who was suffering in a number of particulars from her oppression of Ireland. Mr. O'Connell's offer to suspend the Repeal agitation provided the same measure of Reform as that enjoyed by England was extended to Ireland was a fair one. He voted for the Amendment because He did not think any confidence could be placed in men who upon all occasions, which hitherto had offered, proved themselves to be the inveterate enemies of Reform.
 Sir Edward Codrington said, that he believed the borough he represented was desirous of placing the election of its public officers on the principle of the 10 l.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull appeared at the Bar with the Report on the Address. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 Sir John Campbell rose to make one observation. The latter part of the Address expressed, as the opinion of the House, that Municipal Corporations ought without delay to be placed under a vigilant popular control. He understood that when the Report of the Commissioners of Corporation inquiry was laid upon the Table his Majesty's present Government would propose a measure to the Legislature to carry into effect that portion of the Address. Unless that were done, he would, with the concurrence of those with whom he had the honour to act, prepare and submit to the House a Bill for that purpose.
 Sir Eardley Wilmot having been one of those Gentlemen who attended the meeting in question, the observation most certainly applied to him. He again repeated, in answer to the accusation, that his votes, if referred to, would be found to have ever been on the most liberal side. It was perfectly astonishing to him that there should have been anything more of party in his attending the meeting at the House of the noble Lord near him (Lord Stanley) than if he had attended any meeting which might have been held in Cleveland-row. He, in common with the other Gentlemen who were then present, felt that the country was in a most critical position, and he and they attended as independent men, and he would undertake to say, that they left the house of the noble Lord as independent as they went in. When he appeared be-
 439
 Sir Eardley Wilmot hoped, that after the very personal attack which the hon. Member for Middlesex had thought proper to make upon him and other hon. Members who had the other day attended at the house of the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, the House would indulge him for a very few moments. He begged, in the first place, and in the strongest terms that the forms of Parliament would permit, to repel with indignation the language which the hon. Member had applied to him and to others, when he designated them as "wolves in sheep's clothing." The accusation was most unfair and most unjust towards him, as the hon. Member must admit, if he would recollect the voted he had given during the last two Sessions of Parliament. Without one single exception, he had voted with the most liberal side of the House.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved that the thanks of the House be returned to his Majesty for this, his most gracious reply.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said that a vote of thanks on these occasions was a form established by uniform custom, and he was very far from seeing that there was anything in his Majesty's reply which should induce the House to depart from the usual course.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved, that that part of his Majesty's Speech which related to the destruction of the Houses of Parliament should be read.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he was sure that there would be on the part of that House a unanimous disposition to recognise the propriety of the steps taken by his Majesty on the occasion of the lamentable casualty referred to. Immediately after the occurrence of that event, his Majesty had adopted measures for the temporary accommodation of
 470
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said that the reference to the Committee proceeded on the assumption that they were to consider of the best means of providing new Houses on the present site; and his own impression was, that this plan would best suit the convenience both of the Parliament, and of the public. The House of Lords also was about to appoint a Com-
 471
 Lord John Russell  said, I rise in consequence of the notice which I gave a few days ago, that I should put a question to the right hon. Baronet on the rumours now, respecting a dissolution of Parliament. I hope, Sir, I hope I shall not be obliged to ask the question; but it is necessary for me to make some observations on the state of affairs, particularly as regards this House, before we go into a Committee of Supply. The House has shown by two votes that it is not disposed to adopt the propositions made by his Majesty's Ministers. In an Amendment to the Address to the Throne, it has called for measures of a more decided character than the advisers of the Crown thought fit to suggest in the Royal Speech, and it has declared that the only step yet taken by Ministers, namely, the dissolution of the late Parliament, was unnecessary and impolitic. As far, therefore, as the opinion of the House conveys a censure, it has fixed that censure upon that act of the present Ministers. I believe that no Ministers ever before stood in so extraordinary a situation, and I thought it right, two votes having passed against them, to call the attention of the House, before we go into a Committee of Supply, to the rumours that have prevailed, and to ask the right hon. Baronet if he had given any authority for these rumours? The rumours to which I advert imply that Ministers having advised his Majesty to appeal to the sense of his people, would not be content with that sense so expressed; but since the result had been adverse to their views and measures, they were resolved again to appeal to the sense of the people, and to endeavour to wear out and vex the country by repeated dissolutions. There have been rumours even of a more extraordinary nature, namely, that should Ministers think it adviseable to recommend his Majesty to dissolve this Parliament before the Mutiny Act shall have been passed, they would consider themselves authorized to maintain a standing army in time of peace,
 472 473 474
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, Sir, it is always my wish to give the House as unreserved an explanation of the course which I mean to pursue as a public man, as is consistent with my duty as a Minister of the Crown, and I do not require the additional time which the noble Lord offers me for the purpose of being enabled to answer the questions which he has put to me. In answer to the first, I inform him that, I have not felt it my duty, in consequence of the vote of the other night, to tender my resignation to the King, and that I do intend to persevere in the course which I consider it my duty equally to the King and to the public to pursue, and, notwithstanding that vote, to submit to the consideration of the House those measures on which his Majesty's Government have formed their opinion, and which they are prepared to introduce without delay. I am aware, certainly, that the House of Commons did, by a small majority, in an exceedingly full House—by a majority of 309 against 302, not pass a censure upon the Government, but did by a majority of seven, imply a difference of opinion with that Government as to the necessity of the late dissolution of Parliament, and did imply an apprehension, which I think was unfounded, that measures which would be conducive to the general interests of the country would be interrupted and retarded by the appeal which his Majesty had thus made to the sense of his people. But I do not believe, that the majority which came to that vote did mean to imply an opinion that it was tantamount to a vote for the removal of his Majesty's Ministers. There are many who concurred in that vote, who will nevertheless admit that I should not be acting consistently with my duty if I considered it significant of an opinion that I ought to retire from the post to which his Majesty has called me. Some hon. Members who voted for that Amendment, and who spoke in the course of the Debate, explicitly declared that such was not their construction of the vote. With respect to the Irish Church (for I shall take the several questions put by the noble Lord in the order which will make my answers the most intelligible, though not possibly in the order in which they were presented to me),I beg to say, that
 475 476 477 478
 Lord John Russell:  The right hon. Baronet has misunderstood me as to one point, when I stated the prevalence of certain rumours. I did not say that it was the intention of any Minister to govern by a standing army; what I meant was, that there existed a rumour that some persons thought they could justify keeping up the army without the Mutiny Bill—that there was a power inherent in the prerogatives of the Crown to maintain a standing army,
 479
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer:  In order to remove every doubt or apprehension, I can only declare in the most unequivocal manner, that I never heard the subject of the prerogative of the Crown to continue the standing army without the Mutiny Bill discussed till to-night.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer:  I entirely concur with the right hon. Gentleman as to the propriety of re-appointing the Committee; and I hope, as he has excused himself from serving on the Committee for rebuilding the houses of Parliament, that it will be an additional reason with him for giving his valuable assistance to the Committee on the military expenses of the Colonies.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer:  When I answered the question put to me by the noble Lord, I stated simply a fact—that in consequence of the vote of the other night, I had not considered it my duty to tender my resignation; and I do assure the hon. Member for Middlesex, that in my situation I find it quite sufficient to dispose of practical questions for discussion and decision, without attempting to meet the hypothetical points and uncertain contingencies in respect to which he asks for an answer. I have not resigned; and I mean to proceed in the execution of my duty, by submitting to the consideration of Parliament the measures contemplated in the Speech from the Throne; but as to the course I shall pursue, or the course the House is likely to pursue, those are matters which must be determined by future events in respect to which I consider it utterly inconsistent with my duty to pronounce an opinion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer —I appeal to the House whether I have shown unwillingness to answer any question possible for me to reply to. The House did come to a vote the other night implying a different opinion on the necessity of a dissolution of Parliament; the majority was 309 to 302; and looking at that vote, I say again that. I have not felt it my duty to abandon the post in which I have been placed, and that I shall proceed to submit to Parliament the measures mentioned in the King's Speech. If the hon. Member thinks, that Supplies should be refused to his Majesty, or that it is fit to obstruct the course of measures without reference to their merits, it is perfectly open for him to adopt that singular method of promoting the general welfare. It would, however, be quite absurd for me, by a preliminary engagement, to promise the House that I will pursue a certain course in certain contingencies, and on the occurrence of certain hypothetical cases.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer:  It would be quite absurd if I said I thought it a vote of confidence. At the same time, I repeat again, that I did not consider it a vote that implied even the opinion of the majority—a decided opinion of the majority—that it was my duty to retire.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer:  It may be my business to construe the Address, but I leave it to those who were parties to the Amendment to construe that.
 Mr. Barclay  said, it had been asserted that the majority out of doors agreed in opinion with the Gentlemen who had carried the Amendment. Representing, as he had the honour to do, a large constituency, in a county closely connected with the metropolis, he could not subscribe to the assertion. He believed that the opinions of the people out of doors on the subject of the Ministry were nearly balanced, as were the opinions which prevailed within doors. He must say, that during the whole of his canvass, he had never heard any great lamentation over the loss of the late Administration. In his opinion, the feeling at present prevalent in the country was either Conservative or Destructive. He was convinced, that if the experiment were boldly and fairly tried—if the hon. Member for Middlesex would move a Resolution condemnatory of the present, or in praise of the late Administration—if the hon. Gentleman ventured to come boldly and openly to the test, he would soon find that neither the majority in nor out of the House was in favour of his views.
 Mr. O'Connell  wished to have what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) on one point distinctly understood,—he alluded to the right hon. Baronet's statement with respect to the Temporalities of the Irish Church. He (Mr. O'Connell) had not a doubt as to the right hon. Baronet's meaning which appeared to him sufficiently explicit; but in order to remove all doubt from the minds of others, and to render the matter unequivocal, he now called the right hon. Baronet's attention to the subject. He understood the right hon. Baronet to say, that the Temporalities of the Irish Church should be applied exclusively to Ecclesiastical purposes; and by "Ecclesiastical purposes" he understood the right hon. Gentleman to mean purposes limited to the Protestant Established Church, and not connected with any other form of religion. Was he right in his interpretation of the right hon. Baronet's meaning?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that it was his intention to convey the meaning which the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had assigned to his words. By "Ecclesiastical purposes" he certainly meant purposes connected with the doctrines of the Established Church. He took this opportunity of reminding the House, that in a very short time the Report of the Commission of instruction would be presented, and that the measure proposed by Government for the adjustment of the Tithe question must soon be brought forward; and he put it to the House whether, with the information now before it, discussions on the Church Temporalities, with the amount of which they were not acquainted, must not be considered premature. He adhered, however, to his principle, that the revenues of the Church ought to be confined to purposes connected with the Establishment.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he had construed the right hon. Gentleman's declaration precisely as it was now explained; be never had any doubt on the subject; but he wished that what appeared to him to be clear and unequivocal should he equally so to others. He did not wish to excite any discussion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was his wish to afford every information in his power; but, considering the immense importance of the questions referred to, and the imperfect information before the House, he felt it to be his imperative duty to deprecate premature discussion; and, therefore, he could not go further at present than he had already done in his previous explanations and answers.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose to make a Motion before the House went into a Committee of Supply, for which possibly some Gentlemen might not be prepared, and which others might attribute to motives that had not the slightest foundation. It was now his intention to propose, which he did with the greatest willingness and satisfaction, that Mr. Bernal be called on to resume his place as Chairman of the Committee of Ways and Means. But in making this proposition, he must protest against a misconstruction of his motives, principally because it would diminish the compliment which he meant to pay the hon. Member for Rochester. What might have been the fate of another proposition he would not stop to inquire; but this he could say with truth, that he never contemplated any other arrangement with respect to the Chairmanship of Committees than that which he now proposed. He had witnessed with great satisfaction the impartiality, attention, and ability with which the hon. Member's duties had been discharged. There were many individuals present who knew that he (Sir Robert Peel) never contemplated any other appointment than that which he now proposed. He should merely add, that if the proposition were met by an unanimous vote of the House in favour of it, they would be only paying the hon. Gentleman a compliment to which he was justly entitled, and they would add to its value by the mode of conferring it.
 Lord John Russell  was glad, that the right hon. Baronet had made this Motion, which he felt great pleasure in seconding. He only rose for the purpose of bearing his testimony to the great merits of Mr. Bernal, who he was sure would discharge his duties in future as he had
 486
 The Chairman  having read that part of the King's Speech which related to the estimates and was addressed to the House of Commons, put the question, "that a Supply be granted to his Majesty."
 Mr. O'Connell  said, it was because he thought there ought not to be any discussion on this subject at present that he hoped the letter would be laid on the Table, and nothing more said about it. The right hon. Gentleman's explanation was perfectly clear,—let individuals have
 488
 Sir John Byng  wished to say one word in justice to Lord Hill. That noble Lord never intended to express any opinion as to the conduct of the Magistrates in employing the troops at Rathcormac. But those troops having conducted themselves with the greatest activity, steadiness, and forbearance, and to the perfect satisfaction of the Magistrates, the noble Lord wished to convey the expression of that satisfaction to the troops, to whom nothing could possibly be more acceptable.
 Major Beauclerk  said, that though he had no confidence in the present Government, because he did not believe that they would go far enough in the way of Reform to satisfy the people, vet he would give Ministers so much Supply as would enable them to go on till they had an opportunity of bringing forward their measures. He thought the country did not care for Whig or Tory, that people thought it little or no matter what was the name of the Administration, but looked rather to the measures that might be adopted. For his own part he had made up his mind that Ministers would not bring forward such measures as the country called for—if they would, they should have his support; but he repeated, that he believed Ministers could not make up their minds to propose such measures. If the present Ministry did not bring forward satisfactory measures, he was prepared to support a Ministry which would. He should only vote for a certain Supply,
 484
 Mr. Littleton  said, that having very recently belonged to the Government more immediately connected with Ireland, he was anxious to advert for one moment to an observation which had been made both in the House and out of it—namely, that the late Government were responsible for the unfortunate proceedings that had occurred at Rathcormac. He begged to state, that neither the late nor the present Government could be considered responsible for those proceedings. Application was made to the Government in the ordinary course for the assistance of the troops. That application was supported by the usual affidavits making out a strong case, on the part of those applying, of the apprehension of danger in the event of assistance not being afforded. These were received by him, and submitted to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, who, according to the uniform practice in such cases, referred the matter to the local Magistracy, who were best qualified to say, how far it was requisite that any extraordinary protection should be afforded to the parties. It having been deemed necessary to afford them the protection required, the usual order was issued to the officer commanding the troops in that particular district to put himself in communication with the officers of police; and they, again, were directed to communicate with the Magistrates, and the parties making the application. The only persons, therefore, who could be considered responsible for the lamentable events that followed, were those under whose orders the military fired. Whether their conduct was proper or not, was a question which this house ought not, in the present state
 489
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, that he had given notice of a Motion for the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the proceedings which took place at Rathcormac, in Ireland, on the 18th of December last; and also for a copy of a letter signed Fitzroy Somerset, dated Horse Guards, 22nd of February, and addressed to Sir Hussey Vivian; but as it was not his wish to excite a debate on the affairs of Ireland, situated as the House and the Government at present were, and still less to give rise to a discussion on the late lamentable occurrence at Rathcormac, which he gave his Majesty's Ministers credit for sincerely lamenting, he should, therefore, not persist in his Motion for a Committee to inquire into that unhappy affair. If, indeed, he were to follow up his original intention, it might prejudice the parties who were implicated, and who now awaited their trial for the part they took in those proceedings. He did not, however, conceive that the right hon. Baronet, the Secretary for Ireland would object to the production of a copy of the letter which was addressed by the Horse Guards to the military that were employed on that occasion, especially as the letter had, in fact, been already made public. Under this impression, he would not, at this time, enter further into the subject; but begged to move that a copy of such letter be laid before the House. He objected to the terms of that letter which praised the conduct of the military, and in this peculiar case might become prejudicial on the trial of the parties concerned in the affair. He thought that the phrases "satisfaction," and "unqualified approbation" might as well have been omitted in the letter.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  was glad, that the hon. Member for Meath had consented to
 487
 Sir H. Hardinge:  In reply to the noble Lord, I have to inform him and the House, that there is no intention on the part of Government to alter the system of education in Leland as settled by the late Administration. With regard to the amount of the estimate for the present year, I may mention that I believe it will be larger than last year. There has been some increased expenditure, and, speaking from memory, I apprehend that a larger sum will be required for the present year.
 The Speaker  announced to the House that having on Saturday, attended by several hon. Members, waited upon the King with the Address, agreed upon by the House, his Majesty had made the following gracious reply. 469
 Mr. Hume  thought that the reply, which the right hon. Baronet characterized as most gracious, scarcely called for any specific vote of thanks. The Address to his Majesty, which he, in common with a majority of the House had agreed to, contained specific mention of Reforms in the Church and Corporations, which that majority desired to have effected, but which his Majesty in his gracious reply did not even notice. The reply, in fact, was no reply at all, and the only plea on which the vote of thanks could be carried, would be that it was a matter of custom. It would be, however, most desirable that, on the other hand, a custom should be established, that in the speeches and replies from the Throne, there should be something to the purpose.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know whether it would be competent in the Committee to determine upon the site of the House, or whether this point was to be left to the House itself? Of the Committee which had been appointed on the subject last Session more than half were disposed to change the site.
 Mr. Hume  agreed that there was nothing in the reply which called for observation; what he complained of was omission. He was not, however, going to disturb the unanimity of the House upon this occasion; he bad merely risen to express his individual opinion on the subject.
 Mr. Hume:  I wish to ask the right hon. Baronet whether I understood him distinctly to say, in answer to the question of the noble Lord, that though on two occasions this House has declared its decided opinion against the measures of Ministers, he means to persevere in retaining his situation in opposition to the opinions of the general mass of the community? If I thought, that the majority in the House did not represent the majority out of it, the case would be different; but as I think, that the majority in the House does represent a very large majority out of it, I beg to know whether it is to be understood, that the present Ministers will continue to hold the reins of Government, although they will be unable to carry any measure without severe conflict? I ask this, because, after the recent appeal to the people, they have a right to expect steady Government, on which dependance can be placed as to the measures to be introduced, and as to the probability of carrying those measures. Are we to understand, that notwithstanding the decisions against him, it is the right hon. Baronet's intention to persevere, doubting that the opinion already expressed is the opinion of the majority? He must see, that the people of England have no means of expressing their sentiments, or of stating those sentiments to his Majesty, but through their Representatives; and what I want to know is, whether their opinions are to be set at defiance? If they are to be set at nought, it is impossible to say what unpleasant consequences it may not lead to. It may bring about a collision of a most disastrous kind. Governing against the wish of them ajority of the House is without precedent. Mr. Pitt, indeed, had a considerable majority against him and persevered, but then the people were evidently with him. That, give me leave to say, is not the case now. No doubt there are hon. Members on the other side, who are under a delusion upon this point; but as regards my constituents, I will venture, without the least hesitation, to say that three out of four are opposed to the present Ministers. I thank the right hon. Baronet for his frankness: it was what I expected of him, and I am pleased to find, that he has taken that course, as I trust that in the same spirit he will reply to the two questions I now beg leave to put to him—whether he con-
 481
 Mr. Hume:  I am sorry to trouble the House again; but still I do not think that the right hon. Baronet and I understand each other. What I want to know is, whether he considers the determination of the House on the Address a vote of confidence, or of no confidence? He may decline to answer it; but we shall then draw our own conclusions from his silence.
 Mr. Hume:  I certainly cannot have made myself understood, because the right hon. Baronet speaks of some hypothetical case. I submitted no hypothetical case; I spoke of a matter of fact—that the majority in the House was against him, and that the majority out of doors was equally opposed to his measures. That is a fact. I am quite aware, that he would fain think otherwise; it is just upon the balance with him, whether he shall live or die—" the flickering flame dispenses fitful light," and we shall soon see it sink into the socket and expire with no very grateful odour. He may not like to look forward to his measures for tomorrow, but we, on the part of the people, have a right to know what is to be expected from him and his colleagues. The Motion for the Committee of Supply is a matter of form which must be gone through, and it would be improper to throw any impediment in the way of it; but the people are not to be told, that a certain body of men enjoy the confidence of the country, when it is known that they retain their places in defiance of public opinion. It is impossible, that they can thus carry on the Government
 482
 Mr. Spring Rice:  I beg to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet to the Committee on the military expenses of the Colonies appointed last Session, and to ask him whether it is intended to revive it? If so, the sooner its labours are recommenced the better, as we shall the sooner be in possession of the requisite information, and the sooner able to proceed effectually.
 Mr. Ewart:  I beg to ask the right hon. Baronet this question. Did he consider that the vote we came to the other night was not a vote of censure on the dissolution of the late Parliament?
 Mr. Henry Bulwer  asked, whether
 485
 Lord Ebrington:  I wish to put a question to the right hon. Baronet on the subject of the Commissioners of Education in Ireland. Is it the intention of the present Government to make any change in the principles of that system of education, or will they be allowed to continue the same as under the Government of Lord Grey?
 The Marquess of Chandos whose attention had been directed to the subject, had no hesitation in stating that the report to which the right hon. Gentleman, alluded did not contain a correct version of what he had said. At the end of last year his attention had been called to the quantity of corn that had been introduced, duty free, into the country from the Channel Islands, and the Isle of Man; and at a meeting of his constituents he had read a letter, in which it was stated that a number of vessels had been sent from Dantzic, freighted with corn, to the Channel Islands. He had no information on the subject except that contained in the letter. He then stated, that if the case were such as that information led him to suppose it was, such importations must have a considerable effect upon the corn-market at home. He did not, however, impute to the late Government any connivance at these illegal importations.
 Mr. Baring felt it necessary to rise in consequence of the allusion which the right hon. Gentleman opposite had made to certain observations which the right hon. Gentleman supposed had fallen from him upon the hustings in Essex. He rather thought that he recollected the occasion to which the right hon. Gentleman alluded. In the course of his canvass in the market at Braintree, where the election for the division of Essex which he represented was held, an elector had said to him, "The worst thing that I have heard about you is, that you are the President of the Board of Free Trade. Now, if you hold that office, how can you be anything but an enemy to the Corn-laws, and to the farmer who is protected by them?" To this he replied, that it was undoubtedly his office to preside over the Board of Trade; that everything which affected the industry of the country, be it agricultural, commercial, or otherwise, came under his department; that, instead of seeking to injure the agricultural interest, he was anxious to do everything in his power to promote it, and, as an instance of his anxiety, he mentioned that the first question which had come under his consideration upon entering into office, was whether foreign corn had not been imported into the country fraudulently from the Channel Islands. He had never imputed neglect to the right hon. Gentleman, either in that or in any other department. What he had stated was, and the fact had been established beyond all contradiction, that there had been fraudulent importations of foreign corn, duty free, into this country from the Isle of Man and from the Channel Islands. The late Government had instituted an inquiry into the extent of the fraud. He did not know the precise date when that inquiry was instituted; but a Report was made to them on the subject of that inquiry on the 30th of last July, at a period of the Session when it was clearly impossible for the right hon. Gentleman to have introduced and carried any preventive measures through Parliament. That Report would be presented shortly to the House, and his only reason for not having presented it already, was a fear that he might have overlooked other papers which ought to be presented with it. He should certainly feel it his duty to propose some measure on this subject; for though the fraud had not been practised to such an extent as would affect the markets,
 494
 Mr. Baring said, that it was his intention to include within his Bill all cases of this kind of fraud. It would extend not only to the Isle of Man, but also to the Isle of Guernsey, from the northern part of which the importations had been most frequent.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer certainly thought the course of inquiry which
 498 Roebuck 499
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer said, that it would be a difficult matter to give the hon. Member an answer on the Boundary question in terms as concise as those in which he had couched his query. It was one of the most important and complicated Questions with which Government had to deal, as it related to the settling of the limits of the State of Maine on the part of the United States, and of the limits of the province of New Brunswick on the part of his Britannic Majesty. The dispute arose out of a treaty made between the two countries so long ago as the year 1783. By that treaty a line was to be drawn, determining the boundaries of Maine and New Brunswick. Certain high lands were supposed to exist between the waters of the St. Lawrence and the Atlantic, and those high lands were to form the boundaries of the two provinces. But those high lands had never been discovered;
 495
 Lord John Russell quite agreed with
 500
 Mr. O'Connell thought that the right hon. Gentleman had adduced the strongest reasons for the production of the Order in question. The right hon. Gentleman said it had been the practice to fire over the heads of the people; if so, it was manifest that the expectation of the first volley not being intended to take effect induced the people to stay, and it should therefore be distinctly shown that the sham-fight practice was now to be abandoned. He did not wish to fight Irish subjects its by-battles, or to take up the question by miserable instalments; but, in reference to the occurrence at Rathcormac, he might observe, that the people were told that it was a trespass to enter an enclosed field for the purpose of distraining, and probably they did not expect that persons committing a trespass would fire on them: hence the assemblage of the people, and the melancholy result that had occurred. He protested against the principle laid down by the gallant Officer opposite (Sir C. Dalbiac). The gallant Member talked of a soldier's duty of obedience to the civil power as being paramount to every other consideration; but he would tell the gallant Officer obedience was no justification of the soldier if he violated the law in consequence of a Magistrate's order. A sol-
 509
 Mr. O'Connell did not mean to say that the hon. and gallant Officer was not bound to obey a legitimate order, but the hon. and gallant Officer conceived that it was his duty to obey, at all events; and that the duty of obedience justified the act on his part.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer was glad to find it generally admitted that the gallant and distinguished services of Sir Hussey Vivian, the Commander of the Forces in Ireland, were only equalled by his humanity, and he felt that it was of great advantage to the public service, and a guarantee that the military force in Ireland would be directed with temperance and discretion, when it was found that that gallant General had consented to remain in his command of the forces in that country. The real Question now at issue was, whether it were desirable to make a precedent on this occasion, by producing a confidential order from the Commander of the Forces to the officers acting under him in Ireland. The object was to secure the performance of the public service at as small a risk of effusion of blood as possible. If the practice of firing over the heads of the people on occasions of collisions between the military and the people—a practice the existence of which had been admitted by Gentlemen opposite—led to delusion in the first instance, and if in consequence of that delusion, the people were induced to rush upon the troops, and greater loss of life was thereby occa-
 510
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer: I say at once, Sir, that the object of those who issued the order, was not so much to provide for the security of the troops, as to provide for the security of the people.  [Mr. Hume
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer said, all he asked from the House was, that they would leave the matter at present in the hands of those who were responsible for it, and he asked this from a sincere conviction that it was not only for the advantage of the troops but for the interests of humanity and conducive to the public peace so to leave it.
 Lord John Russell wished if possible to take some course on the question which would satisfy what he considered the just wishes of a great proportion of the House. He could entertain no doubt when the right hon. Gentleman who first opposed the Motion had told them that the production of the order would be injurious to the public service, that he must feel there were good and satisfactory reasons for his taking upon himself the responsibility of the refusal. On the other hand, he, like his right hon. Friend near him, did feel that it was an order of such a nature that its humanity consisted—almost entirely consisted—in its being known to, and understood by, those whose ignorance of its contents might involve them in a scene of slaughter to which they would not otherwise be exposed. Between these two difficulties he was desirous of offering a suggestion to the right hon. Gentleman opposite, which he trusted would remove both. It was, whether the Commander-in-Chief, Sir Hussey Vivian, having, as he understood, no objection to
 515
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer said, that after the turn the debate had taken, he apprehended it must occur to every one, that if publicity were the object in view, the mere production of a Parliamentary paper could not attain it. Again he said, leave the matter in the hands of the responsible Government. He believed all proper and necessary notice would be afforded through the channel which had been pointed out while, at the same time, any part of the order which it might be inexpedient for the public to become acquainted with need not be promulgated.
 The Attorney General said, that his attention had only been recently called to the. subject, and that he had consequently been unable to give it that consideration which he was anxious to bestow on every question, whatever its individual importance might be. As he understood the hon. Gentleman, he had appealed to him whether there was any difficulty in the resolution he proposed. It certainly appeared to him that, with respect to the second part of it, there was very great difficulty. The hon. Gentleman disapproved of the existing law in this respect. He really thought the resolution he proposed would make the matter worse. To fetter the judgment of an election Committee, sworn to decide upon their Oaths according to the evidence, to declare that in certain cases the petition should be considered frivolous and vexatious, whether the Committee thought so or not, did appear to him a very inconvenient and somewhat awkward mode of proceeding to put down bribery and corruption. He had no intention whatever of opposing the spirit of the resolution—he could have none. He was ready to concur with any hon. Member on either side of the House in any measure likely to put a stop to bribery
 519
 Mr. Wynn expressed his concurrence in the opinion expressed by the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down. He considered it decidedly against every rule of practice, and the whole spirit of the law, to withdraw the consideration of every individual case from the authority of the House, and to decide every case that might arise by Act of Parliament. The Grenville Act fixed the payment of costs in certain cases on the
 520
 Mr. Baring was of opinion, that if Election Committees, as at present constituted, did their duty the object which the hon. Mover of the Resolution had in view, would be fully attained. He would put a case which he thought the Resolution would utterly fail in meeting. Suppose a person who had been guilty of bribery and corruption in his own person, and who, therefore, did not wish to petition, were to put forward a man of straw as the petitioner; in that case no bribery could be proved against the petitioner; but if the petition were successful, all the advantage would be in favour of a person who had in reality been guilty of bribery and corruption, and still that person, according to the terms of the Motion, would be entitled to his expenses. With regard to the House of Lords, he did not think it was fairly open to the charge which had been brought against it by the hon. Member for Middlesex. He did not think that it was unwilling to join in any measure to secure the purity of elections, and he need not tell the House that the only law ex-
 523 Gisborne
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer was satisfied, that the House would not, without the fullest and most mature deliberation, affirm a Resolution, pledging the public to pay all the expenses of successful petitioners, who might not themselves be found guilty of bribery, and that without there being any limit or restriction as to those expenses. In the present instance, however, the hon. Member for Derbyshire had given notice of a Motion which the House had met to discuss, but that Motion the hon. Member had chosen to alter, and they were now called on, without having received any notice, to agree to another Motion, which called upon the House to pledge the public to pay the expenses of petitions in all cases where the elections shall be declared void on the ground of bribery, and that without limitation or specification. He hoped that the House would not agree to a Motion of this nature without having received notice of it. He stood there as the guardian of the public funds, and he should be sorry to see that House pledging the public to pay the expenses of election petitioners, without duly considering how much such a proceeding interested hon.
 521
 Mr. Pryme recommended the adoption of the suggestion, that the Speaker should be empowered to direct either side to withdraw to the lobby, in case of a division, should it be considered necessary for either party to do so.
 Sir George Clerk thought, that less confusion and loss of time would arise from one party withdrawing to the lobby, than from any other course that could be pursued. Much inconvenience would be found to result from the majority passing over to the seats previously occupied by the minority. At present, the arrangement was, that the party which opposed the Speaker's decision on any question, had to go out; thus, it often happened that the majority might be compelled to go into the lobby, if they called for a division.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer was not aware that the question applied to him, in any way. He recommended the hon. Member to make the inquiry, when the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary for Ireland, was in his place. He was unable to return the hon. Gentleman any answer.
 Mr. Charles Grant could state, with
 512
 Mr. O'Dwyer rose pursuant to notice to move "that there be laid before this House a copy of any order recently issued to Officers commanding troops in Ireland, directing 'that in future military parties shall not be granted to assist in the collection of tithes without special direction from the Officer Commanding-in-Chief; and directing, that in the event of any collision between the King's troops and the populace, the improper practice hitherto pursued at times, of firing over the heads of the peasantry, be discontinued, and that the troops, shall always fire with effect,' or words to this import." When he gave that notice the other evening, owing, he was sure, to some misconception as to the terms of it, some Members opposite had indulged in something like ridicule, there was laughter in the House. If, however, hon. Gentlemen would listen to the facts of the case, they would see that there was nothing ridiculous in his proposition. He was informed and he believed, that the Commander-in-Chief in Ireland had felt it his duty to issue a circular letter to the officers commanding regiments there, directing them that when the King's troops should come in collision with the peasantry, the practice hitherto pursued, of firing wide of them, should be discontinued, and that when the troops were called upon to fire, they should do so with a view to deal destruction amongst the people. He had no wish to indulge in any criminatory attack upon the gallant Officer who had issued that circular. He was disposed to admit that that gallant Officer had done so through the most humane and benevolent motives, and with a view to spare the effusion of blood where it was practicable. But if such an order had really been given,
 501
 Mr. O'Dwyer remembered that one of the officers examined at the inquest, deposed that the peasantry might have been dislodged without firing. He was unable to point out the particular nature of the circular, he wished to have produced: he could not say whether it was a general order, or a private and confidential order. It was possible, however, that all the purposes of his Motion might be answered, if the right hon. and gallant Officer opposite (Sir Henry Hardinge) would state generally that such an order as that referred to, had or had not been issued. If instructions had been given to the troops requiring them for the future to fire with effect, instead of firing over the heads of the peasantry, it would only be humanity and justice to the people of Ireland, to make the fact public.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson would ask the right hon. Gentleman one question. Was he to understand that the right hon. Gentleman intended to introduce a Bill to prevent these importations being made, not only from the Isle of Man, but also from the Channel Islands?
 Mr. Poulett Thomson rose, in consequence of seeing the noble Marquess, the Member for Buckinghamshire, (the Marquess of Chandos) in his place, to give him an opportunity of correcting an erroneous statement which had gone abroad through the medium of a speech made by that noble Marquess to his constituents. A
 491 492
 Mr. Harvey was cheered by the intimation given by the right hon. Baronet that he might feel inclined to sanction the appointment of a Committee to ascertain the real amount of property fairly applicable to the purposes of education, and to give effect to the labours of a Commission that had been sitting for seventeen or eighteen years. Though he would not assume that this intimation on the part of the right hon. Baronet was a pledge to that effect, he trusted that when he should move for a Committee for that purpose, it would have the right hon. Baronet's sanction. Without meaning to divide the House upon the subject, he would throw out a hint as to whether there was not something in the terms in which the Motion was couched that would render it inoperative. Amongst other words were the following as part of the Motion:— "And to consider the expediency of further grants in aid of education." He could not understand how they could Report upon the expediency of further grants in ignorance of the amount of property now applicable to that purpose. In order that the inquiry might not be rendered inoperative, he would bring the subject of his Amendment at no distant period before the House. For the present he begged to withdraw it.
 Mr. Harvey felt assured that the House and Government would concur with him in the opinion, that it was important to give to every inquiry presented to the Committee every possible facility. He did not rise, however, with any intention of opposing the re-appointment of this Committee, but it did appear to him that the inquiry to which it was to direct its attention was far too limited in its objects. The assumption the Motion proceeded on he must dispute, which was, that the resources already existing in the country as applicable to the education of the people were not sufficient for that purpose, and therefore the Committee was directed to inquire into the expediency of making further grants to effect that object. Now, his (Mr. Harvey's) inquiry and experience led him to pronounce without hesitation, that they had already a fund strictly belonging to the purposes of national education, amply sufficient, if directed to its proper purposes, for providing education for every child in the country. Though a commission of inquiry had been sitting for seventeen years, at an expense to the country of not less than 250,000 l. l. 497
 Mr. Littleton said, that if the Motion were persisted in, he should consider it to be his duty to divide with the right hon. Baronet, (Sir H. Hardinge.) His hon. Friend, the Member for Drogheda, had only done justice to the Officer commanding the forces in Ireland, in not imputing to that distinguished individual any blame for the late unfortunate occurrence at Rathcormac. No person could take greater pains to diffuse among the troops under his command just and humane principles of action. He had no means of knowing whether such an order as that referred to existed, but from what fell from the right hon. Gentleman opposite, he presumed it did. He was sure, speaking from his own experience, that it was high time some regulation should be adopted on the subject. Most unfortunate results had arisen from the practice of directing the soldiers to fire over the heads of the peo-
 508 Sheil.
 Mr. Littleton wished to know how it would be possible, supposing the hon. Member's Motion carried, for a House, containing 620 Members to divide, if the minority, consisting of only 20 Members occupied one side of the House, and all the rest of the Members were obliged to go to the other?
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor considered that the only mode of punishing soldiers for misconduct, was by bringing them to a Court Martial.  ["No, no!"]
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor replied, that having the honour to represent the county of Cork, where the unfortunate transaction took place, and having been counsel for the friends of the victims at the inquest, he conceived that he had a perfect right to bring the subject before the House.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor rose to move for a Copy of the Evidence taken before the Coroner on an Inquest held at Rathcormac, in the County of Cork, upon the bodies of nine Persons who lost their Lives at Gurtroe on the 18th of December last: also a Copy of the finding of the Jury, and a Copy of the Correspondence which took place between the Government and the Military Secretary, and the Magistrates of the County of Cork, relative to the granting of Troops for the collection of Tithes and arrears of Tithes in the Parish of Gurtroe. His present object was not to inculpate the Magistracy, and he should therefore confine the few remarks he should make to the conduct of the military upon that occasion. The hon. Member for Meath had said, that there were nine men killed upon that occasion, and nine wounded. The hon. Member was entirely mistaken as to the numbers. There were nine men killed on whom an inquest was held, and there were two more carried away by their friends, and on whom no inquest was held; seven were mortally wounded, and thirty-five were more or less wounded. In all there were more than seventy shots fired, of which forty-five or forty-six took effect. It was said that the military had endeavoured to intimidate the people before they fired; but if he could get a Court-martial upon the military, which was his object, he should be able to establish a case of gross ignorance of discipline on the part of the Commanding Officer, and of gross and extraordinary brutality on that of the soldiers—
 Mr. Shaw begged to remind the hon. and learned Gentleman, that soldiers were amenable to the criminal law of their country, as well as other individuals.
 Mr. Shaw: The question was, whether the House of Commons would require the orders given by a Commanding Officer to be produced, when they were distinctly informed that they were of a confidential nature? If this were to become the practice it could only lead to one result, namely, that the Commanding Officers would not give their orders in writing, but would take care that they were only verbally communicated. Did the House mean to say, that a Commanding Officer whether of a higher or lower rank, might not give confidential orders to the troops under his command, without their being in every case liable to be afterwards made
 514
 Mr. Robinson seeing the right hon. Baronet (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) in his place, begged to embrace the opportunity of asking, whether any progress had been made since the last Session of Parliament in the settlement of the long pending Question of the North American Boundary Line.
 Mr. Henry Grattan could not have supposed that in any assembly in which there existed a spark of humanity, the notice of such a Motion as that which was then under the consideration of the House, would be received with a sneer, as it was by the Gentlemen opposite, when mentioned a few nights since by the hon. Member for Drogheda; and that the Motion itself could afterwards be treated with
 504 505
 Sir Henry Hardinge said, that the hon. Member had made a most satisfactory and gratifying when he admitted that he had intended to impute no improper motives to his gallant Friend the Commander-in-Chief in Ireland for issuing this order. Indeed, the hon. Member acknowledged that the intentions of the Lieutenant-General in issuing such an order, must have been of the most humane and benevolent description. He was also well aware that on every occasion his gallant Friend was actuated by a spirit of humanity and kindness towards the people. With regard to the Motion of the hon. Member, he did not understand, from the terms of it, whether it referred to an order directing that in future no military party without special directions from the Commander-in-Chief, should assist in the collection of tithes, or to some other order. If it were meant to refer to an order with regard to the collection of tithes, by which the military would not be called upon to act without the orders of the Lord Lieutenant and the Lieutenant-General Commanding the forces, if that were the order to which the hon. Member alluded, it was a circular order, and there would not be the slightest hesitation on the part of the Government to produce it. But if the hon. Gentleman referred to confidential orders issued by the Lieutenant-General commanding the forces in Ireland to Officers commanding regiments in that country. It would be his duty to resist the production of such an order, on account of the very inconvenient precedent it would establish. If the hon. Member alluded to an order issued before he (Sir Henry Hardinge) came into office, as to officers acting under the orders of Magistrates, it was not a confidential order, and
 502 503
 Sir Henry Hardinge begged, although he might not perhaps be quite regular in doing so, to remind the House that he had resisted the production of the order on the ground of the inconvenience of the precedent, rather than with reference to any question arising out of the order itself. He maintained, that if any Member of that House were at liberty to get up and call for the production of confidential instructions—and the order in question was only an instruction—from the Commander-in-Chief to general and commanding officers of regiments, the discipline of the army would suffer very materially. He had, therefore, broadly stated, that he resisted the Motion on the ground of precedent; that his gallant Friend, Sir Hussey Vivian, was exceedingly anxious that not only this, but that every similar order should be promulgated; but that he was of opinion, the order being endorsed by the Commanding Officer, himself "confidential," that he was not at liberty to produce it in compliance with the Motion of the hon. Member. He should feel the deepest responsibility in doing so. He agreed, however, with the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) and the hon. Member for Inverness-shire, that it might be very possible for the Commander-in-Chief, not only in Ireland, but in England and in Scotland also, to promulgate the substance of the order in such a manner as that the public might be informed of' the course the military were instructed to adopt, in the event of any of those unfortunate and unhappy collisions in which they were sometimes involved with the populace. Under these circumstances he trusted it would be satisfactory to the House to know, that his right hon. Friend near him would communicate with the Commander-in-Chief. and that such an order should be promulgated as would remove any doubts or uncertainty that might exist. He hoped this explanation would be satisfactory, and at the same time he trusted the House would
 516
 Sir Henry Hardinge thought it right, as an imputation had been cast on a gallant officer, to declare that it was his firm belief, that that gallant officer would be found, whenever any investigation into his conduct was made, to have acted in a perfectly correct and proper manner.
 Sir Henry Hardinge, interrupting the hon. Member, begged to put it to him whether it would not be proper to refrain from all exciting topics, and to postpone the present discussion until after the trial of those individuals, against whom charges connected with the affair alluded to had been made.
 Sir Henry Hardinge explained his meaning to be, that an order would be issued by the Commander-in-Chief which would show to the whole of the United Kingdom what course would be pursued under similar circumstances to those of Rathcormac.
 Mr. Warburton said, that if means had been adopted by the House for taking down the names of Members in each division, he might, perhaps, agree to the Motion of the hon. Member for Mary-la-
 525
 Mr. Warburton hoped that the hon. Member for Southwark would not persevere in proposing such an addition to the labours of the Committee. The effect of it would be to entirely swamp the inquiry, remembering the length of time which the inquiries of the Commissioners of public charities had occupied, and the sum of money they had cost the country, he thought the hon. Member must see that if such duties should be superadded to those already devolving on this Committee, they could not possibly terminate their labours this Session; that, in fact, several Sessions must be devoted to them, and that they would cost the country a very large sum of money.
 The Speaker said, that the hon. Member must confine himself to the Motion before the House.
 Mr. Hardy could not understand why, if an order of the kind had been issued, it should be designated a confidential order. The right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary for Ireland, might call it a confidential one, but he could not understand why that which would govern the conduct of the military on all future occasions should be so considered. If there were any one thing which it was important to promulgate for the information of the public, it was an order of this nature. It had always been the custom to give the people some warning by firing over their heads, or loading with blank cartridges. Under these circumstances he maintained that the issuing and acting upon such an order without any previous intimation was in opposition to every principle of humanity.
 Mr. Roebuck had no objection to postpone the naming of the Committee until to-morrow, and to communicate with the right hon. Baronet in the meanwhile as to the names of the Members to be put upon it. He would just observe, as regarded the persons at present on the Committee, that there were many Gentlemen on it sitting now on that side (the Opposition side) of the House, who when the Committee was formed sat on the other side. Though he had moved for the Committee, it had been formed by the Government then in existence, in accordance with his wishes.
 Mr. Roebuck wished to explain why the inquiry of the Committee was not proposed to extend further. Last Session just such a paragraph as that now brought forward by the hon. Member for Southwark was introduced into the Motion, but it then appeared to be the unanimous feeling of the House that such an inquiry being of a distinct nature, should be prosecuted by a distinct Committee, and he (Mr. Roebuck) accordingly modelled his Motion to its present form. He hoped the hon. Member for Southwark would bring forward his Motion at some other period for a separate and distinct inquiry.
 Mr. Roebuck, in pursuance of the notice he had given, moved for the appointment of a select Committee "to inquire into the present state of the Education of the people in England and Wales, and into the application and effects of the grant made in the last Session of Parliament for the erection of school-houses, and to consider the expediency of further grants in aid of
 496
 Mr. Brotherton said, that there was a school in Manchester, to the maintenance of which 5,000 l. s. d. l.,
 Mr. Hume wished to ask whether the right hon. Gentleman's meaning was, that the order in question should be cancelled, and another issued by the Commander-in-Chief, applicable to the whole of the United Kingdom? If this were the intention of Government, nothing could be more satisfactory.
 Mr. Hume had no doubt that the right hon. Baronet was correct in his view of the object of the order; but the question was, what was likely to be its effect? Was it right to keep the persons who might be
 511
 Mr. Hume: The right hon. Baronet appears anxious that the officers and soldiers acting under them should be protected; but his feelings of sensibility stop there—he has no regard apparently for the people.
 Mr. Hume hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman would consent to withdraw the Motion.
 Mr. Hume said, that if his hon. Friend the Member for Derbyshire were to wait till the matter was settled in the other House, he might wait a long time; at the same time, he acknowledged that he could not exactly see his way through his hon. Friend's Motion. The principle was sufficiently clear, that as the public suffered by bribery, the public ought to pay the expenses; but while this principle was admitted, it ought, for the safety of the public, to be subjected to the strictest rules. Under all the circumstances he recommended his hon. Friend to withdraw his Motion for the present; in so doing, however, he begged to enter his protest against the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman for embodying the resolution in a Bill. He should like to know what security the Commons of England had that any Bill on the subject which might be adopted by them, would pass the other House of Parliament? The adoption of such a course of proceeding would be a mere waste of time.
 Mr. Sheil : The object of issuing this order was said to be to save the spilling
 513
 Mr. Gisborne, in rising to make the Motion of which he had given notice, begged, in the first instance, to set himself right with the House, by stating that he had since been informed that the object he had in view could be effected by a simple resolution. He therefore simply proposed to move:— "That in all cases in which an election shall be declared void, and the sitting Member unseated on the ground of bribery or treating, and in which it shall not be reported to the House by the Committee, that the petitioners had been guilty of similar practices, it is expedient that the expenses of the petitioners should be borne by the public." He believed not only that it was perfectly competent to the House to carry this object into effect by a specific resolution, but that it was in strict accordance with the practice which had been constantly pursued in similar inquiries, even without any Act of Parliament whatever on the subject. his Motion, in its original shape, proceeded thus: "but that in every case in which a sitting Mem-
 517 518 ex post facto
 Mr. Finn was anxious to put a question to the right hon. Baronet, on a subject
 526
 Sir Charles Dalbiac: Most unquestionably, I say it is. If the Magistrate should give ever so imprudent or capricious an order, if I were not sensible of any impropriety in obeying the order of that Magistrate, it would be my duty to obey that order.
 Sir Charles Dalbiac meant to say, that if a General Officer were placed under the orders of the Commander-in-Chief and the Home Secretary (the highest authority in such cases,) and by them directed to act under the Magistrates; in the event of a refusal to obey the civil power, such officer was responsible to the laws of the country, and exposed to the reprehension of his Sovereign.
 Sir Charles Dalbiac thought the subject to which he was about to allude was closely connected with the present Question, but he had no wish to persist in his observations contrary to the sense of the House.
 Sir Charles Dalbiac  said, that as a general officer on the staff of the army of
 506 507 de mortuis nil nisi bonum,
 Sir John Campbell thought, that some objection might have been urged to the Resolution as originally worded, but he wished the House to observe that, as amended, the Resolution would not come into operation, unless in cases in which it was not reported, that petitioners had been guilty of similar practices. With respect to the course which ought to be pursued for carrying into effect what seemed to be the general feeling of the House, it appeared to him better to lay down a general rule, to apply to all cases without exception, than to pass a specific Resolution, as the hon. and learned Member opposite (the Attorney-General) had suggested,  toties quoties,
 Sir John Campbell entertained the same opinion, and entreated the hon. and learned
 524
 Mr. Jervis objected to the principle of making the public pay in the first instance for prosecutions for bribery. He thought the proper course to follow would be to introduce a Bill to subject the party unsuccessful on an election petition to the payment of expenses, unless a report should be made in his favour.
 Sir Samuel Whalley moved the following resolution: "That as a number of Members, larger than there is any precedent of, has divided within the present House without inconvenience, it is expedient, with a view to save time, and to relieve the Speaker from an unpleasant duty, that all divisions shall for the future take place within the House." Great inconveniences were occasioned by the present mode of proceeding, among which, loss of time, and loss of seats, were not the least. It was well known, too, that the state of confusion in which the House invariably was after a large division, prevented the transaction of any business in a proper or satisfactory manner. He, therefore, trusted there would be no objection to the adoption of the Motion.
 Sir Samuel Whalley said, the same rule would then apply, as was at present observed, with respect to divisions in Committee, or the Speaker might direct the majority to go into one or both the galleries.
 Sir Samuel Whalley would not press the Motion after the strong feeling which the House had displayed with respect to it. The object he had in view in bringing it forward, was solely to promote the convenience of the House. If hon. Gentlemen had adopted his views on this point, he had intended to suggest, with regard to taking the divisions, that the Clerk should accompany the Tellers, on taking the divisions, with a printed list, and that he should prick with a pin opposite the name of each member as he voted.
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn believed he could satisfy the noble Lord in a very few words. On his taking office he found a great diversity of opinion among the operatives and their masters with respect to the execution of the law, as well as with respect to the making an alteration of some of the provisions. Among the Inspectors, also, he found there were different opinions as to the Amendments. Such being the case, and the law itself being of so recent a date, he thought it the most expedient course to make an experiment of the law; so that, from actual experience, rather than from contradictory opinions, they might be enabled to ascertain what alterations really were necessary. With regard to the allusion which the noble Lord had made to a communication between him and a particular Inspector, the circumstances were these. The Inspector forwarded to him a letter, in which he notified the change which by the Bill would take place in the regulation of factories on the 1st of March; and to that letter he subjoined a requisition he had received, calling upon him to give an interview to a deputation from the parties interested in the changes, for the purpose of discussing what Amendments the Factory Act required. To hold an interview for such a purpose was, it appeared to him, not very consistent with the intention to make a fair experiment of the Bill. He therefore, in his answer to the Inspector, intimated that it would be imprudent to invite interviews with deputations, for the purpose of discussing any Amendment; but nevertheless all the information which could be collected was to be forwarded to the Government.
 Sir George Strickland said, that as he was connected with that part of the country from which these petitions came, he was anxious to say a few words upon them. He entirely concurred in the opinion that no party feeling was involved in the consideration of the question. It was a question of humanity alone—a question whether children of a tender age should be allowed to work in these factories an immoderate length of time, so as to retain the appearance of health, when they were actually so crippled in their limbs as to be unable to maintain themselves in afterlife. He considered it to be highly desirable that this question should be brought to a satisfactory issue, and that with as little delay as possible.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer was not at all surprised that the petition presented on a former evening had escaped the vigilance of the Speaker; for, as the Speaker could not see the petition until after it was presented, he must of course depend for all his knowledge of its contents upon the hon. Member's word who presented it. This petition prayed for an equalization of stipends, which certainly might be effected by reducing the higher stipends to the same level with the lower; but that he believed was not the object of the petitioners. Indeed, the hon. and gallant Member had frankly admitted that he intended to effect the equalization, not by reducing the higher, but by raising the lower stipends. He was intrusted with a certain power on the part of the Crown, by which he could give or withhold its assent to the presentation of petitions of this nature, which involved an increase of the public burthens. He thought that the House would agree with him that, if he gave his assent to the presentation of such a petition, that assent ought to imply an acquiescence in the prayer of it, and ought to be followed by a recommendation to the House to grant it. He was bound to say, that though he could bear willing testimony to the respectability of the petitioners, to their high character, to the important services which their ministers rendered to their respective congregations, and to the country at large, yet, when there was made to him on a sudden, without any opportunity of deliberation, a proposition on their behalf, which involved a perpetual increase of an annual grant, he could not venture to say at once that he
 530
 Lord Stanley. The trustees entered upon the discharge of their duties in June last, having declined to act till certain liabilities and incumbrances were at an end. The right hon. baronet was correct in stating, that in addition to the amount already accounted for, there was a very considerable sum now lying at the banker's, and which would be paid into the Exchequer as soon as the signatures of all the trustees could be obtained, it being necessary that the whole body should sign an order for payment. The right hon. Member for Coventry (Mr. E. Ellice), who was one of his trustees, was not at present in the country, but the moment he returned the transfer would be made. During the three-quarters of a year that the trustees had been acting, the balance that accrued was something more than 27,000 l. 532 l. l., l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer would endeavour to answer the two questions of the hon. Member, though they must appear to every one who heard them rather unconnected. He did not know whether the new regulations to which the hon. Member referred were the regulations by which it was proposed to admit Dissenters into the College of Physicians; but if they were, he was given to understand that those regulations had met with the approbation of the College. The state of the practice of the College was this:—In order to get a license to practise as a physician, an individual must have resided at an University for a certain number of years. What was now proposed was, to dispense altogether with the necessity of residence at the Universities in persons applying to become licentiates of the College of Physicians, and instead of residence and degrees, a certain form of examination and attendance in medical schools would be required. Persons passing this examination, and complying with the rules of attendance, would be qualified to become licentiates and fellows of the College, so that those individuals who might be educated at the Universities would have no preference over others who had attended the course of study referred to. With respect to the other question, whether the Minister of St. Margaret's should be appointed, he did not exactly know whether the hon. member meant "appointed by ballot."  ["No."]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer said, that a payment had been made into the Exchequer, in consequence of the conditional resignation by the king of Belgium of the annual pension formerly granted to him by Parliament. That
 531 l.,
 Mr. O'Connell had paid great attention to the subject, and he felt bound to say that he had never met with one single case in which the parties preferred a military trial. The introduction of Trial by Jury had given the utmost satisfaction in New South Wales; surely, there could be no valid ground of objection to its introduction into Van Diemen's Land.
 The Solicitor-General stated, that an application had been made to him on the subject, and his answer was, that if the parties committed the offence inadvertently, and there was no wilful violation of the Stamp Act, he would not object to bring in a Bill for their relief, to which he thought Parliament would consent; but, before he could do this, he stated that he must know under what circumstances the act had been violated, and how the informations were laid; in fact, he required information on the subject, but he had not received it. If the hon. Gentleman thought he could substantiate cases of great hardship arising out of the existing state of the law in this respect, he should be happy to aid him, or any other Gentleman, in the preparation of a Bill to remedy the evil; and if they were not prepared with any measure, to suggest one himself.
 The Solicitor-General, speaking for himself, should have no objection to give it in all instances where it could be established that the law had been infringed through inadvertence. What he wanted was, that the parties claiming protection should make out that they deserved it. The penalty was certainly heavy, especially when it was recollected that it was incurred on every publication, perhaps for a year together.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer thought that Parliament, or those who introduced the Bill, ought to bear a part of the blame, if blame were imputable anywhere, for the scandalous and pettifogging suits of which the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite had spoken.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer believed that some sinecures had fallen in since the accession of the present Ministers, and he could answer that the same course would be pursued by them as by their predecessors. In appointing a naval officer to be Captain of Sandown Castle, the Duke of Wellington had fulfilled the intentions of the late Board of Treasury, that the post should not be occupied by a military officer; and while the jurisdiction of the Cinque Ports was continued, the Captain of Sandown Castle could not be dispensed with. The salary of 40 l.
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn really could not speak to the facts, upon which the hon. Gentleman had grounded his question. He had always understood that when persons waited on his Majesty, at the usual levee days, with addresses, the course was to put the addresses into the hands of his Majesty, and then to withdraw. Certainly, he could not inform the hon. Gentleman whether the addresses, to which he alluded, were accepted in any other than the usual manner.
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn replied, that since he had been Secretary of State for the Home Department, be had followed the rule respecting the presentation of addresses, which he found adopted by his predecessors. That rule was, that when persons forwarded to him addresses to be presented to his Majesty, he presented them accordingly, provided there was nothing unbecoming in the language in which
 538
 Mr. John Stanley begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman, whether it was the practice for the Crown to return an answer to an address, in terms expressive of the gracious manner in which it had been received?
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn said that from all the inquiries he had made, he believed that the course which had been pursued with respect to the addresses in question, was the same as was pursued in all other cases; but what were the express terms of the answer on this occasion, he could not tell. The reason why an address was not objected to, on account of the designation of the parties, provided there was nothing objectionable in the matter and manner of the address itself, was, that otherwise the Secretary of State would be under the necessity of investigating every case where the persons signing the address gave themselves a particular description, before he could present that address to the King. He certainly considered, that in what he had done, he had acted according to the usual mode.
 An Hon. Member begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman, whether he, as Minister of the Crown, considered an Orange
 539
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn, after a pause, said he thought what he had already stated, was sufficient to convince the house that the answer given to these addresses was a mere matter of form, and implied no recognition of the legality of the societies to which the individuals belonged. The addresses were acknowledged, not as addresses coming from societies, but as coming from individuals.
 Mr. John Stanley: Perhaps the right hon. Baronet, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, could tell him whether, when petitions were presented to the Throne supposed to originate from unrecognised societies, it had ever been the practice to add, to the acknowledgment of such petitions, the words "graciously received?"
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer could not exactly answer the question of the hon. Gentleman. He apprehended that a great deal must depend upon the language of the petition. ["No, no!"] A great deal must depend upon the language of the petition. ["No, no!"] Language might be used in a petition to the Throne, coming from a body, calling itself a political union, or a trades' union, of such a nature as might alone justify a Minister in refusing to present it; but he apprehended that a petition coming from a trades' union would not on that account alone be refused by the Minister. He had himself heard discussions in Parliament, on the occasion of the Speech from the Throne having denounced political unions, whether the House of Commons would be justified in receiving petitions coming from such unions, and the sense of the House was, that they ought to be received. ["No, no!"] Did the House uniformly reject petitions, because they professed to come from political unions, or from persons calling themselves members of a political union? With respect to the addresses presented to his Majesty, he apprehended that it would be a most painful duty to be imposed, either on his Majesty or his Ministers, to refuse receiving those addresses, on account of the presumed illegality of certain acts performed by the persons who signed them. The rule ought to be to widen, rather than contract, the avenue, by which the people might approach the Throne. He was certain that that was the principle upon which the House would
 540
 Mr. John Stanley: The effect of such an answer was this—that it was considered as a recognition, by the Crown, of the legality of the society to whom it was addressed. He wished to know whether this was the fact.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer hoped not. It was but the recognition of the act of an individual, or of individuals. It was, in short, holding this language to the party—"I will not debar you of your right to approach me as an individual, because it happens that you belong to a society I disapprove." That was a very different thing from saying, that the society was a legal body.
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn  had no objection to lay any one or all of the addresses on the Table, if the hon. and learned Gentleman wished.
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn:  And the answers returned by me.
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn did not know whether he could undertake to produce the answer of the Duke of Wellington.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer observed, that there must be some mistake as to the time when the answer was said to have been given by the Duke of Wellington. The Duke left office in November, 1830, and during the Administration of his noble friend, he was Secretary of the Home Department, so that he did not conceive that the Duke of Wellington could have returned any answer at all.
 Mr. O'Connell admitted that no judicial decision had been pronounced as to the legality or illegality of Orange lodges. But for what reason? Because of the difficulty of obtaining evidence as to the nature of those lodges. But he believed it would not be denied that more than one judge had expressed an opinion of their illegality; and he knew that more than one witness had protected himself from disclosing the nature of Orange lodges, from revealing the oaths of secresy which the members of those lodges swore, and the signs by which they recognised each other, by the plea that he was not bound to give answers which would criminate himself, and the court in such a case had ruled that the witness was not bound to answer the questions put to him. He knew, that among the upper classes of Orangemen the oath was not taken. [Mr.  Lefroy. 543
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer thought the main question after all was this—did the Crown mean by returning the answer to the addresses presented by the Orange Societies, to give any sanction to those societies, or to declare an opinion that exclusive confederacies, whether legal or illegal, bound together by secret oaths and declarations, were societies that ought to exist; he had no hesitation in saying, that by a compliance with a mere matter of form, or by the inadvertent use of an expression, it was not the intention of the Crown, or of Ministers to encourage any exclusive confederacy, or to imply an opinion that such a confederacy was lawful.
 Mr. O'Connell admitted, that for his statement respecting the hon. Mr. Plunkett he had no authority but the newspapers. As for Mr. Robinson, the other individual to whom he had alluded, he had certainly imagined that he was the nephew of Lord Farnham. He was, however, agent to Lady Farnham.
 Mr. Serjeant O'Loughlen was surprised to hear Orange societies lauded in that House, even by Gentlemen on the other side. In addition to what had been stated by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, he would mention an occurrence which had taken place in the metropolis of Ireland since the formation of the present Administration, which he thought would
 546 —"Our hope is the Lord on high; Then put your trust in God, my boys, and keep your powder dry."
 Mr. Serjeant O'Loughlen begged to set the right hon. Gentleman right. The lines he had quoted, were not only part of a song—they expressed a sentiment, and were attached to every verse. It was the sentiment which he considered most objectionable and indecent. The right hon. Gentleman might not have been aware of the fact before; but he certainly ought not to have remained in ignorance of it.
 The Solicitor General thought it absolutely necessary that something should be done to prevent a recurrence of the distressing delay which had recently taken place in the execution of two criminals who had been condemned at Chester. It was also necessary that the Judges who presided at the assizes, held at that city, should not again be placed in the situation of having their orders disregarded. Yet such at present was the feeling between the Sheriffs for the county, and the Sheriffs for the county of the city, that in all probability, should the Judges again have the melancholy duty of pronouncing the last sentence of the law upon any unfortunate criminal tried at Chester, the order for the execution whether made upon the county Sheriffs or the city Sheriffs, would be refused by both. Under these circumstances, he agreed with his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Chester, that some declaratory act upon the subject was necessary; but, at the
 558
 Mr. O'Connell thought that that would be the most satisfactory course, after what had fallen from the two hon. and learned Gentlemen opposite (the Attorney and Solicitor Generals) nobody could doubt but that it would be improper to transfer the duty of executing criminals to the constable, who was a mere gaoler, he thought that the duty ought to devolve upon the Sheriffs of the county.
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn supported the views of the Attorney-General.
 Mr. O'Connell regretted that the Bill was not to be extended to Ireland; for it was founded on the clearest principles of justice. Alluding to the monstrous absurdities which existed in the present state of the law, he observed that the time was come to destroy them—not bit by bit, but
 566
 Mr. Ruthven merely wished to say, that, in his opinion, nothing could conduce more to the gratification and advantage of the constituencies throughout the kingdom, than that authenticated lists of the votes of the Members of that House should be given to the public. He feared, however, that it would be difficult to discover any means of obtaining the desired object, but he was glad that the hon. Member had brought the subject under the consideration of the House.
 The Lord Advocate said, the Motion which it was now his duty to submit to the House was intended to carry into effect the recommendation contained in the Report of the Commissioners appointed under a Royal Commission to inquire into the Courts of Law in Scotland. The first point to which the Bill he sought to introduce would apply, was the saving in the expense to suitors in the Court of Session, which would be effected by the reduction of the number of clerks and other officers, and by an arrangement of fees. The present expense of that court was, now 32,000 l l l 573 l.
 Mr. Murray said, that while he condemned some measures which had heretofore been introduced for regulating the Supreme Courts in Scotland, he considered that on the present occasion, the learned Lord opposite was performing a very great, useful, and important duty. The country was deeply indebted to those who had issued the Royal Commission from which the proposed measure of relief originated, and to the learned individuals who as Commissioners had executed it. He thought the hint thrown out by the hon. Member for Greenock highly deserving attention, for it was not to be disputed that the fees in the Court of Session especially were not only much too heavy, but that they were a great impediment to the course of public justice, and he trusted that the learned Lord would, in any measure he might bring forward, keep in view the necessity of a diminution in the expenses in all civil causes.
 The Lord Advocate, in moving for leave to bring in a Bill for Abolishing in Scotland Imprisonment for Civil Debts of small amount, for rendering more available the process of  cessio bonorum, l. s. d. l. cessio bonorum,
 The Lord Advocate said, that the other Bills, of which he had given notice, touched upon some of the points to which the right hon. Gentleman had adverted, but unless it was intended that the decision of the Sheriffs' Courts should be final, the vivâ voce examination of witnesses could not be adopted. To retain the Court of Session as a Court of Review, the evidence must be taken in writing for the information of that Court, and this could only properly be effected by the present mode of examination.
 Colonel Conolly was much obliged to the noble Lord, the Member for Northum-
 552 553 554
 Colonel Conolly,  under such circumstances, had no other course but to withdraw the petition.
 Colonel Conolly rose to present three Petitions from Parishes in the County of Donegal, connected with the Synod of Ulster, praying that an equal amount of the Royal bounty, or Regium Donum, should be paid to each minister of the Synod, by endowing them with a stipend of 100 l l 529
 Lord Robert Grosvenor supported the Amendment moved by the hon. and learned Member for Edinburgh, (Sir John Campbell).
 Mr. Anthony Lefroy said, that he did not at present intend to discuss whether or not the Orange society was a legal one. He earnestly hoped that this, which was
 545
 Mr. Hawes said, that no dealer at the time he gave credit contemplated any advantage derivable to him in the way of recovery of his debt from the law of arrest; therefore in as far as it affected that part of the question it was nugatory. The mode of doing business at present adopted in large commercial houses very much increased the circulation of paper, because small sums, which heretofore were considered as book debts were now paid by bills at a short date. Should no facility for separating the good from the bad in the enormous quantity of these necessarily afloat be offered the trader? As a man of business and a trader himself he felt bound to bear the fullest testimony to the advantages offered the trading community by
 570
 Mr. Ronayne: The right hon. Secretary had challenged inquiry into the conduct of the Irish Government. He would ask that right hon. Gentleman to look about him, and glance at two of the Privy Councillors he had made. He did not mean to say that these two individuals were themselves members of Orange Societies; but they were the recognised friends and supporters of that system in Ireland. The right hon. Gentlemen could not help knowing, that the hon. and gallant Member for Sligo, was an attached friend of the Orangemen, and he had been promoted by the present Government. He must also be aware that an office of high importance had been offered to Lord Roden, (the Grand Master of the Orangemen,) which he did not think fit—perhaps from delicacy, to accept. The very appointment of such persons in Ireland, was quite calculated to inspire the people of that country, with the notion that they were again to be handed over to Orangemen, and to be again oppressed by them, as they had been for the last quarter of a century. The hon. Member for the county of Longford, (Mr. A. Lefroy) seemed to think that the Orangemen had been hardly dealt with, and declared that they could not be deemed a faction. He would ask him this question, as he seemed to be perfectly initiated in their secrets:— Was it allowable to make any man an Orangeman who happened to be a Roman Catholic; or to make the son of a Roman Catholic an Orangeman; or could a man who married a Roman Catholic become an Orangeman? ["Yes!"] Well, be that as it might, notwithstanding the in-
 548 "A race of reptiles, raised in troubled times; Nursed in blood, and cherished in their crimes." Chancellor of the Exchequer
 Mr. Ronayne begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether he himself had not, within the last few weeks, received officially addresses from professed Orange Lodges in Ireland, to be presented to his Majesty, and to which he (Mr. Goulburn) had returned an answer, that the same had been most graciously received by his Majesty.
 Mr. Baines said, there was considerable diversity of opinion as to the manner in which the provisions in question should be amended; but there was none as to the impracticability of carrying them into effect. In every part of the manufacturing districts in Yorkshire considerable excitement prevailed in consequence of mills having been thrown out of employment by the operation of the Factory-law. It was a measure which was brought before
 528
 Mr. Shaw said, it appeared to him unnecessary to raise the question of the propriety of receiving petitions from certain societies in connexion with addresses to the Crown; for he recollected that that question had been repeatedly raised and discussed in the House on previous occasions. Petitions had been presented to the House from individuals describing themselves to belong to Orange lodges or political unions, and their reception having been objected to, it had been distinctly laid down by the Chair that a petition professing to come from a society in a corporate capacity—from a political union, for instance—could not be received. But when a petition was presented from individuals stating themselves to be members of any particular society, the House had not thought it necessary to inquire into the nature of the society, but had received the petition as coming from the individuals by whom it was signed. He was in no way connected with Orange or any other societies, but he must say, in justice to those Orange societies, that it had never been decided that they were illegal. Their illegality had
 542
 Mr. Shaw thought many of the observations of the hon. Member for Knaresborough entitled to much weight, but he did not think that, as a whole, they militated much against the form, or at all against the principle, of the measure. His object, however, in rising was not to enter on the Question, but to earnestly request of the hon. and learned Member for Edinburgh that he would include Ireland in its provisions. It was most
 569
 Mr. Robinson said, that as the right hon. Baronet at the head of his Majesty's Government was in his place, he would take the liberty of putting a question to him. He would ask, whether since last year, when he had put a question to the late Government respecting the income granted by Parliament to Prince Leopold, now King of Belgium, any money had been paid into his Majesty's Exchequer, on account of that illustrious personage—what was the amount of money paid in, if money had been paid in—and whether the right hon. Baronet would have any objection to lay on the Table an official account of the payment of money so received? He asked this question now, because the Chancellor of the Exchequer, when he asked it last year, gave him to understand, that after the 1st of April, in the then next year a large sum would be paid into the Exchequer on the part of his Belgian Majesty.
 Mr. Robinson,  after the satisfactory explanation offered by the noble Lord, felt no hesitation in withdrawing his notice of Motion on the subject.
 Mr. Robinson was so disappointed by the answer which he had just received, that he begged leave to make a distinct Motion for a return of the monies which had been paid in.
 Mr. Aglionby thought it was the bounden duty of the Legislature, by a short declaratory act to take care that such a lamentable occurrence as had led to the present measure should not happen again.
 Sir Henry Hardinge did not intend to discuss the question of the legality or illegality of Orange lodges, but he rose to notice the charge made by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin against the Irish Government, of being influenced, in making appointments, by a desire to encourage Orangeism. Now, he would ask the hon. and learned Member whether he meant to assert that the appointment of Sir E. Sugden to the Chancellorship had
 544 [Ironical cheers from the Opposition.]
 Sir Henry Hardinge, after having been so personally alluded to, felt it necessary to make one observation in reply to the hon. and learned Gentleman. He assured the hon. and learned Member, that the Lord-Lieutenant and the Chief Secretary for Ireland had something else to do than merely read the songs any person might sing at public meetings. Until this moment he never heard of any such song having been sung; and he appealed to the House, whether, because on the 9th of December, before either the Lord-Lieutenant or himself was appointed, a person chose to sing a song before the Lord Mayor, which they might disapprove of, both he and the Lord-Lieutenant were to be precluded from paying that respect which was due to the first magistrate of the city of Dublin. The hon. and learned Gentleman must have an extraordinary idea of the law, in accusing them of
 547
 Mr. Warburton as a mercantile man engaged in business for a period of twenty-five years denied that there was any cause for the alarm which the hon. Member for Knaresborough had endeavoured to excite on the subject of the Bill of the hon. and learned Member for Edinburgh, not alone among the commercial, but among the agricultural classes. During his connexion with trade he never found the least facility for the recovery of debts in the power afforded him by the law of arrest. The surest plan he found to be inquiry into the character and condition of his customers. He could anticipate nothing but good as the result of this measure if carried into execution. Though the hon. Member for Knaresborough appeared to deprecate any reduction in the amount of paper afloat—and he must certainly have known that a great quantity of it was valueless—did he mean to state that a reduction in the amount of bad paper which was just what his argument proved, would be an evil to the community? Did the hon. Member think it no advantage for a creditor to possess a power over the copy-hold property of his debtor, which the Bill proposed to place in his hands? The effect of the measure would be to banish bad bills out of the market; and if it did only that, it was entitled to the support of every hon. Member who held the welfare of the community as a thing worth consideration.
 Mr. Herbert Curteis wished to put a question to the Solicitor-General, which was of great importance to some of his (Mr. Curteis's) constituents, and to the public generally. He begged to ask the hon. and learned Gentleman, whether he meant to bring in a Bill to indemnify newspaper proprietors, who were at present liable to heavy penalties for omitting to mention the residences of their printers and publishers, as well as their names, and the places of printing and of publication? He believed several informations had been laid
 535 l. l.
 Mr. Herbert Curteis said, the subject was one of great importance, and he trusted he should be excused, if he said that he was determined to press it upon the consideration of the Government, the penalties being so enormous. At Brighton there were three or four papers, and the residence of the proprietors was well known, yet under a particular clause of the Stamp Act the parties might be subjected to an immense amount of penalties. The result of enforcing the law as it now stood would be the ruin of many newspaper proprietors.
 The Speaker, who inquired if the hon. Gentleman had obtained his Majesty's Assent to the prayer of these petitions. If he had not, there was an informality which would prevent the reception of the petitions, as they prayed for a grant of money. He would take that opportunity of stating to the House, that a petition which contained the same prayer, and which had not received the Royal Assent, presented on a former evening, had been the object and extent of the prayer not having been fully explained to or understood by the House.
 The Speaker decided that the hon. Member was out of order.
 Mr. Hardy agreed with the hon. and learned Attorney General, that it would be most unadviseable to devolve the duty of executing criminals condemned at Chester, upon the Constable of the Castle. The Crown might at any time dispense with an officer of that description, and then the city would be left in the dilemma of having nobody to execute the sentence pronounced upon the prisoners confined in its gaol. He saw no reason why the practice which prevailed throughout the rest of the kingdom should be departed from in the case of Chester. Elsewhere the duty of executing criminals invariably fell upon the Sheriffs for the county. York castle was generally considered to be within the county of the city of York, but for legal purposes it was taken from the county of the city, and placed within the county of York. Why should not the same course be adopted with respect to Chester.
 Mr. Richards would assume, then, for the purposes of discussion that the Bill was substantially the same as that which had been before the House last Session. That measure gave a summary power of execution on the goods and chattels of the drawer or acceptor of a dishonoured bill of exchange after a period of ten days. Now, what would be the consequence of this clause? There was, it was well known to all commercial men, from two to four hundred millions sterling's worth of bills in circulation in these kingdoms, the majority of which were at two and even one month; but, he would, for the sake of argument, average them at three. This would give a sum of 1,200,000,000 l. l. ["Oh, oh!"] 568 [Laughter.] s. s. s., onus probandi
 Mr. Richards said, that the Measure was one of the most important in its nature and its probable consequences, not alone to the mercantile but the landed interest of the country, which had ever been submitted to the consideration of the House. As a Member of the commercial class he conceived it to be his duty to state to the House and the country the disadvantages likely to result from its adoption, notwithstanding the odium he was certain such a course would entail on him. There were several things in the Bill which had his assent; the twenty-eighth clause for instance, which made landed property amenable for the amount of bond debts. By that clause in the course of a few years
 567
 Mr. Hume objected to its being passed without any explanation. The amount was a large one, and he considered himself justified in requiring some information on the subject.
 Mr. Hume considered it to be a notorious fact, that the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, had laid before his Majesty, addresses from bodies, which, even if they were not, strictly speaking, illegal, were so considered by the public at large, and whose objects could not be misunderstood. It used to be a general custom to publish in  The Gazette, 549
 Mr. Hume said, that, in presenting a Petition from an individual of the name of Thomas Cooke, now residing in Van Diemen's Land, his object was not so much to create discussion, as to call the attention of his Majesty's Government to a subject which interested the inhabitants of that colony in particular, and the Members of that House in general. The petitioner stated the precarious condition in which British subjects were placed in that colony, owing to their being left without the protection of British institutions, and called the attention of Government to various acts committed by the Lieutenant-Governor, which the petitioner denounced as arbitrary and oppressive, and contrary to the real interests of the colony. The petitioner further stated, that he had every reason to believe that the Lieutenant- Governor, Colonel Arthur, had received from the late Government orders to institute Trial by Jury in Van Diemen's Land as it existed in England, but that he had refused to put that order in force. He further stated, that there were 20,000 free persons in and near Hobart town, in which place he resided, capable of acting as Jurors. He knew the interest that was felt on this subject, both in England and in the colony; and when he recollected, that in the Bill which the House had passed three years ago, for the better government of New South Wales, a clause had been inserted enabling the Judges, instead of military Juries, to empanel a Jury of civilians, he saw no reason why a similar provision should not be extended to Van Diemen's Land. That clause had given great satisfaction in New South Wales. If the Ministers did not introduce some measure of their own on the subject before the end of the Session, he should certainly bring forward a Motion for the purpose of obtaining for the inhabitants of Van Diemen's Land those institutions and those privi-
 533
 Mr. Hume adverted to the recommendation of the Committee on Naval and Military Sinecures, that as vacancies occurred, they should not be filled up; the late Government had rigidly adhered to this rule, and he wished to know whether the present Ministers meant to adopt the same course. He made the inquiry because he saw that a new Captain of Sandown Castle had been recently appointed; the salary was only 40 l.
 Mr. Hume repeated, that he objected to the principle, not to the amount.
 Mr. Hume suggested that, after the statement of the right hon. Baronet that certain impediments of form only had caused a delay in the payment of an additional sum into the Exchequer by the trustees of the king of Belgium, it might be as well if the hon. Member for Worcester withdrew his Motion for the present, in order to bring it forward again in a few days.
 Mr. Pease did not think the amount of human misery, either among the artisans, the tradesmen, or the farmers, would be much reduced by this measure, and he deduced his reasons from an inspection of the operation of the Courts of Requests upon these classes of the community. Notwithstanding, the Insolvent Debtors' Court was so odious that he should willingly support any measure which would have the effect of getting rid of it for ever. He could not, however, shut his eyes to the probable consequences of some parts of the measure.
 Mr. Sheil: And, also, by the Duke of Wellington?
 Mr. Sheil:  And the answers?
 Mr. Sheil asked whether the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary for the Home Department, would have any objection to lay before the House a copy of the answer, given by the Duke of Wellington to the Political Union when it addressed the Throne, and also copies of those answers which he has himself given to the addresses of the Orange Societies? The House would then be able to ascertain whether the answer of the Duke of Wellington, was founded upon the title of the address, or upon the matter contained in it. The right hon. Gentleman had met one objection by stating that the rejection of a petition might be founded on the matter, and not the title of it. But the
 541
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson would rejoice if
 575
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson hoped the proposed Bill did not in any degree refer to points upon which the Commissioners had yet to report. He concurred in the opinion that no country had so much reason to complain of the expenses of law proceedings as Scotland, and he had ever regretted that the provisions of the Bill
 574
 Mr. Robert Wallace then observed that the measure which the right hon. Gentleman sought to introduce could not fail of being gratifying to every person connected with Scotland. He would, however, submit to the learned Lord that the saving of 15,000 l.
 Mr. Thomas Gladstone observed, that as the petitioner had produced no evidence to support his allegations, the House ought not to deal with them as if they were convinced of their correctness. At present, he believed that the law entitled Judges to grant a Trial by Jury in all civil cases. It was only in criminal cases that Trial by Jury was not granted. The noble Lord at the head of the Colonial Department was inclined to think that Trial by Jury might be introduced in some criminal cases in Van Diemen's Land. In New South Wales it was granted in all cases, except where the party to be tried, on account of local or private prejudices, thought that it would be for his interest to be tried by a military tribunal. He thought that a similar provision might safely be extended to Van Diemen's Land.
 Mr. Wakley wished to ask two questions of the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government. The first was,—"Have any new regulations been made by the College of Physicians respecting the admission into the college of Scotch graduates in medicine?" And the second was,—"Are the inhabitants of the parish of St. Margaret, Westminster, to have the right of electing their Rector, now that the emoluments of a prebendal stall in Westminster Abbey have
 534
 Mr. Ewart begged to ask whether those Trade Unions were leal or illegal unions? He apprehended if the Dorchester labourers, who were convicted last year of being of an illegal Union, had, as such members, sent an address to the Crown, it would have been the duty of Ministers to advise the Crown to refuse the acceptance of that address. It was therefore material, on this question, to know whether the cases were parallel?
 Mr. Ewart rose to order. The hon. Member was discussing a measure in detail which was not as yet before the House.
 Mr. Ewart expressed his determination to support the proposition of the hon. and learned Attorney-General with the view of assimilating the practice as to the execution of criminals and the general liabilities of the sheriffs of Chester to that of other counties.
 Mr. Finn rose to put the question to the right hon. Gentleman opposite (the Secretary of State for the Home Department) which
 537
 Colonel Verner, as a member of a society, which he regarded as the saviours of their country, wished to say a few words. He could positively assure the House that the principle of that society was, to maintain the laws, to preserve the connexion with Great Britain, to protect property and life, and to defend the King. Such, he could positively declare, were the objects for which the Orangemen were embodied. He was not surprised that some hon. Gentlemen were opposed to Orange societies in Ireland; but he was surprised to find that others joined in the outcry; it was, however, only a proof to him how much that body was misrepresented in that House. If the society were such as it had been represented by hon. Members opposite, why was it that the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, had at one time preached conciliation to that body. He wished that hon. Members would bear those facts in mind. He could give his testimony, along with that of the gallant Colonel who spoke last, as to the entertainment given by the Lord Mayor of Dublin—that entertainment was intended as a mark of proper respect from the Lord Mayor to the Lord Lieutenant, upon his arrival in that country. It was stated that objectionable toasts were given at that dinner—he was aware that some of those were objectionable, in the opinion of hon. Members opposite; for amongst them were such toasts as "The King," "The Established Church," and "Sir Robert Peel and his Colleagues."
 Mr. Henry Lytton Bulwer said, that two years ago the noble Lord, the late Secretary for the Colonies had stated, that such an arrangement was about to take place, and he was much surprised to find that these orders were only now put in force. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would gratify many persons who were in anxious expectation of the improvement being effected by taking into consideration the subject of some modification of a legislative assembly for this colony.
 Mr. Ward rose to call the attention of the House to some mode of giving publicity to correct and authentic Lists of Divisions. He thought that all hon. Members must be interested in devising some better mode than that which existed at present, of making the public acquainted with the votes on divisions. The practice now pursued of publishing the names of the Members of that House, furnished, as they were, by some individual Members of it, was, in his opinion, attended by all the evils which could possibly result from the authentic publicity of them, and by none of the advantages which, he was satisfied, would follow the adoption of the mode of taking the votes which he meant to suggest. The names of Members were, at present, sent to the newspapers, after a division had taken place, without the sanction of the Speaker's authority, and without being placed on the votes of the House; and the only manner in which hon. Gentlemen could
 571 The Times, usque ad nauseam, 572
 Sir John Campbell rose pursuant to notice, to move
 559 l., l. l. 560 l. l. l. l. 561 562 l s. l l 563 cessio bonorum, 564 565
 The Attorney-General took the earliest opportunity of declaring his approbation of the principle of the Measure of his hon. and learned Friend, to whose labours and talents he would bear a willing testimony. During the last Session of Parliament he had the honour of introducing a Bill which involved the first proposition of his hon. and learned Friend. He regretted that his hon. and learned Friend did not render his assistance in forwarding that Bill, as it would have allowed the public to judge of the operation of the principle then proposed to be carried into effect. He was satisfied that the best mode in these matters was to proceed gradually and carefully, because the commercial world would then rest satisfied that they were proceeding safely. It was not that he ever considered his measure of last session either as final or effectual as a whole, that he proposed it, but that the public might be the better able to judge of the principle by observing the operation and effect of a small part. He would state that, however strong a right society had to be protected in its dealings, yet he was of opinion that no man ought to hold his liberty at the mercy of another; and there might be introduced a clause in the affidavits holding to bail, that might effect this object. It was not fitting, neither was it the general spirit of our laws, that misfortune should be dealt with as a crime. We should not confound one with the other, nor should we allow crime to escape under the guise of misfortune. There was one thing, however, advanced by his hon. and learned Friend from which he dissented. He objected to the increase of our criminal code, which was sufficiently extensive. He was averse to multiplying crimes and offences, but with that exception he was generally in favour of the principle of the Measure then before the House.
 Sir John Campbell would not oppose what appeared to be the general feeling of the House, namely, that to remove all doubt for the future, a declaratory act should be passed. He would, therefore, withdraw his Amendment, and support that proposed by the hon. and learned Attorney- General.
 Sir John Campbell said, that the penalty was incurred by omitting the residence of the printer and publisher of the newspaper, although their names were inserted. In many instances, the place where the paper was printed had been duly given, but the residence of the printer and publisher had been incautiously omitted. For this the parties were amenable under the statute, and a number of scandalous pettifogging suits had been commenced for
 536
 The Attorney-General rose to propose an Amendment. Whatever might be the legal interpretation put upon the Act, it was certainly not the intention of those who framed it, that the duty of executing criminals for offences committed within the city should devolve upon the Sheriff of the county. Matters had, however, come to such a pass, that the Grand Jury of the county of the town threw out all bills for capital offences which might give their Sheriff the trouble of superintending an execution, and the Grand Jury of the county did the same for their Sheriff. It was, however, a great question whether this duty ought, in consequence, to be thrown on an officer like the Constable of the Castle of Chester, of little or no station, and of little or no responsibility. Nobody before this Bill was brought in ever dreamt of those functions being committed to that officer; yet the preamble of the Bill stated, that doubts having arisen whether the Sheriff of the county of the city of Chester or the Sheriff of the county should perform the duty of executing criminals for offences committed within the city of Chester, the Constable of the castle of Chester should execute that office. Hon. Members would, he thought, agree with him that a goaler, a mere subordinate officer, receiving a small salary, and removable at the pleasure of the Crown, ought not to have the responsibility of carrying the last penalty of the law into execution, which required to be attended with every circumstance that could impart to it the character of solemnity. Unless a great impression were produced upon the mind of the public by the
 556
 Sir John Campbell differed from his hon. and learned Friend opposite, as well as from the hon. and learned Gentleman by whom the Bill was introduced. His opinion was, that it would be better to
 557
 Mr. Jervis said, that as his hon. and learned Friends, the Attorney and Solicitor General had admitted the necessity of passing some declaratory act upon the subject, he should have no objection to withdraw that part of the clause which went to fix the duty upon the Constable of the Castle, and to adopt the words proposed by the Attorney General, provided that by so doing no further objection. would be raised to the Bill.
 Sir Robert Bateson concurred with the noble Lord who had just sat down, in wishing that all party differences in Ireland were at an end. He wished to appeal particularly to English Members, when he requested the House not to be led away by the exaggerated statements they had heard. He was not, nor ever had been, an Orangeman. He was not a party man.  ["Oh!"] 551 ["a laugh!"]
 Mr. Rolfe supported the Bill. Though the hon. Member for Knaresborough had paraded his information and put himself forward as a mercantile authority against the Bill, he (Mr. Rolfe) could tell him it was founded upon information as full and as practical in its character as any which he possessed. It was founded on the Report of the Commissioners, before whom were examined hundreds of tradesmen and persons deeply interested in the question. The result of their testimony was the measure in the shape in which his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Edinburgh proposed to introduce it to the notice of the House.
 Sir Thomas Fremantle explained that the vote was, for the purpose of discharging Exchequer Bills issued for the supplies of 1834 and 1835. The different periods
 555 l
 Lord Howick entirely agreed with the right hon. Baronet, (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) that it would be much better to defer the discussion of the question until the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, should, in performance of his promise, have laid the King's answer on the Table of the House. His purpose in rising simply was to express the satisfaction with which he had heard the right hon. Baronet disavow, in the manner he had done, all desire to countenance or encourage the maintenance of those unhappy party divisions which had so long prevailed in Ireland. He confessed that many of the appointments which had been made by the present Government, taken in conjunction with some of the circumstances which had been adverted to on that side of the house—particularly that mentioned
 550
 Lord Morpeth reminded the right hon. Gentleman that in 1831, the Duke of Wellington refused to receive an address, because the parties to it described themselves to be members of a political union.
 Lord Morpeth presented Petitions from the Master Manufacturers of Pudsey, and from the Operatives of Gomersal, praying for an alteration of the Factory Act. From these petitions, it was evident that all classes—the mill-owners, the master manufacturers, and the operatives themselves, concurred in thinking, that several parts of that measure would be extremely onerous, if carried into execution, and that some alteration must, therefore, of necessity take place. He hoped that the Inspectors appointed by the Act would submit to the Government their views upon the subject, and that the Government would act upon those views. He felt bound to mention, and he did so with feelings of some disappointment that he had been given to understand that the Inspectors had received orders from Government not to admit deputations either from masters or men. This really seemed
 527
 Colonel Bruen  begged to interrupt the hon. Member. The first petition presented by the hon. Member was not signed. There was only a mark attached to it, and it was not vouched by anybody that that mark was the mark of the petitioner. The authenticity of this petition should be established before it could be received, inasmuch as it contained allegations of a most serious nature against the character of a Magistrate. For his own part he did not believe that there was the slightest foundation for any of the charges which the petitioner had made against Mr. Doyne.
 Colonel Bruen  was far from hushing up inquiry, like the hon. and learned Member for Drogheda, he challenged the fullest investigation into the allegations of the petition. He was sure that upon a proper and full investigation the allegations would be discovered to be wholly unfounded. He must observe, at the same time, that it was most extraordinary that it should be proposed to investigate these matters here, instead of leaving them to the proper tribunals in Ireland. As to the charges contained in the last petition, he knew nothing about them; but this he did know, that Mr. Doyne was incapable of acting in any manner unbecoming a
 595
 Mr. O'Connell  thought, that much would depend on the quarter in which the inquiry should be made. He had little doubt that if the right hon. Secretary, or any individual who would act with equal fairness, took the matter up, the charge would be established. This was the conclusion at which he had arrived. The matter seemed quite susceptible of legal evidence; and any man acquainted with Ireland would think few things impossible of Carlow Magistrates.
 Colonel Evans  complained of the bias that operated upon the minds of most of the Magistracy of Ireland. From what he knew of recent occurrences in the County of Carlow, his impression was, that probably the Magistrate would not come clear out of the inquiry.
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn  said, that if the hon. Member for Bath would allow of the interruption, he (Mr. Goulburn) thought be could state what might satisfy the hon. Gentleman, and save the time of the House. The transaction in question, had only recently come under his cognizance, but, he had no hesitation in saying that, from what he had learned of the case, he should feel it his duty to see that it underwent a judicial investigation. The hon. Member would, therefore, see, he hoped, that the effect of entering upon the details of the transaction, previous to that investigation, must be to interfere with the proper administration of justice.
 Colonel Wood  said, the Gentlemen who advocated this Bill last Session, would recollect he had warned them against the effects of the measure, and this petition justified the alarm which he and other Members had expressed respecting the consequences to be expected. [ "No." 599
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn  wished to set the hon. and gallant Member right with
 600
 Colonel Wood  had made no charge against the Commissioners, but had simply complained of the alteration in the old law effected by the act of last year. The statement in the petition was, that the small pittance allowed to the paupers had been reduced.
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn  replied, that he intended to take those measures which
 598
 Colonel Wood  had heard the petition read, and believed it to detail various instances in which poor persons receiving pecuniary allowance had had that allowance reduced from 3 s. s. s. d.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer:  On the appointment of the present Speaker, the necessity of referring to the Report which the hon. Gentleman alluded to, occurred, and approving as he did of the suggestion of the Committee, as being both advantageous to the Speaker, and economical to the public, he took the earliest opportunity of carrying it into effect. The suggestion was, that a service of plate should be attached to the office of Speaker, by which an annual grant, by way of outfit, would be saved. That suggestion, and every other important one made by the Committee, had been adhered to by the present Government.
 Mr. Shell  rose to move that there be laid before the House copies of the letter written by Lord Manners to the Reverend Mr. Johnson respecting the legality of Orange Societies, and of the opinion of the Attorney and Solicitor-General respecting such legality, given in the year 1827; also of the Address to the King of the Royal Luther Lodge, of the Down Orange Lodges, of the Trinity College Orange Lodge, and of the Orangemen of the County and City of Dublin, at a meeting held on the 5th of December last, and of the answers to the said addresses. He would first direct the attention of the House to the legality of Orange Societies, regarding which some doubt had been entertained on Wednesday evening, the Government having insisted that there had been no express opinion on that subject; and, on that ground, the Secretary for the Home Department had, if not vindicated, at least excused his having answered, and thereby recognised the Orange institutions. This subject had been brought before the House in the year 1813, by a Member of the present Cabinet (Mr. Wynn), who had moved for an inquiry into certain illegal Societies, called Orange, in Ireland. Upon that occasion, Mr. Canning and Lord Castlereagh concurred in deprecating the existence of those calamitous confederacies; and, if the Secretary for the Home Department concurred with them, it was matter of surprise that to those Societies, upon a recent occasion, he should have thought it becoming to give an answer. Again, in 1827, a discussion on the legality of these Lodges arose in the House of Commons, upon a motion of Mr. Brownlow regarding a procession in Lisburne. On that occasion, the present Secretary for the Home Department had referred to two official documents, for copies of which he now moved. The first was the opinion of the then Attorney and Solicitor-General. It might be urged that with the opinion of Mr. Plunket, on a political subject, it would be hard to exact acquiescence from the existing Administration. But Mr. Joy, who was not a Whig Chief Baron, although he was Chief Baron to the
 605 "Evening Mail, 606 Evening Mail 607 The Evening Mail, "The power that led his chosen, by pillared cloud and flame, Through parted sea and desert waste,—that power is still the same: He fails not to the loyal hearts that firm on him rely; So put your trust in God, my boys, and keep your powder dry. The power that nerved the stalwart arms of Gideon's chosen few— The power that led great William, Boyne's reddening torrent through: In his protecting aid confide, and every foe defy; Then put your trust in God, my boys, and keep your powder dry. For happy homes, for altars free, we grasp the ready sword— For freedom, truth, and God's unmutilated word: These, these, the war-cry of our march; our hope the Lord on high! Then put your trust in God, my boys, and keep your powder dry."
 The Mail  added, "We thought the roofs would have been riven with the
 608 609 The Evening Mail 610 liaison The Evening Mail 611
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn:  The House had heard the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman read. Would they permit him to read the notice the hon. and learned Gentleman had originally given, in order that those Gentlemen who had heard only the terms of his Motion might be enabled to compare the two? The hon. and learned Gentleman gave notice of his intention to move for "Copies of the Answers given by the Secretary of the Home Department to certain Addresses from Orange and other Societies." The hon. and learned Gentleman now moved, in addition, for a letter of Lord Manners, written in 1827, founded as the hon. and learned Gentleman said, upon certain opinions of the law officers given at that time to the Government of that day; and the hon. and learned Gentleman expected him to be prepared upon the moment to express his opinion whether there was anything in the documents so moved for, which would justify him in conceding the Motion, or authorize him to oppose it. He was sure that with respect to that particular question, the House could not expect him to acquiesce in the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman. He
 612 613 614 615
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that it was his intention to do so, and he believed that the appointment of the present chaplain had taken place with the understanding that that recommendation was to be adhered to. The course pursued in suspending the nomination of the chaplain to any preferment would of itself make it necessary that some new arrangement should be made with respect to the remuneration to the chaplain.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was very happy to hear that the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down was going to substitute moral strength and power for the irritable and inflammable qualities that had formerly been exhibited on that side of the House; but he really could not find, in anything that had occurred in the course of that debate, any justification for even that degree of mitigated warmth which the hon. Gentleman had displayed in the course of his address to the House. He must say that the hon. and learned Gentleman appeared to him to take fire very easily, and boil at a very low temperature. He thought he could convince the hon. and learned Gentleman that there was nothing on the present occasion to justify the ebullition which he had just exhibited. He had told them, that now the Irish Members were supported by a powerful party, they were determined to try their strength. Now, what was the Question before them? The hon. and learned Member for Tipperary (Mr. Sheil) had given notice, for the information of the whole of the House, that on that day he would move for the production of certain documents—namely, the addresses to the Crown from the Orange bodies, and the answers returned to them by the Secretary of State, thinking that on the production of those documents, he should be enabled to found some measure criminatory of that Member of the Government. The Secretary of State said, "I am perfectly willing to accede to your Motion, in which I am myself concerned, and to produce the Orange addresses and the answers thereto. I am perfectly willing to follow out the objects which you declared you had in view in the notice you gave, and as far as I can have a personal or political interest, to promote them." But the hon. and learned Gentleman did not adhere to his notice, but got up and without any notice whatever, moved for the production of a letter written by Lord Manners in 1827, and
 617 618 619 *
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would then ask, whether this was not in direct opposition to the argument, that he had first encouraged, and afterwards opposed, these confederacies?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was putting the accusation in the form in which it had been put by the hon. and learned Member for Cork (Mr. Feargus O'Connor) and he was contrasting the argument of the hon. and learned Member for Tipperary (Mr. Sheil) with those of that hon. and learned Gentleman.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer.  That was the point on which he was desirous to set himself right with the House. He was anxious to show that he was not entitled to the honour of
 * 620 Sheil: 621 622
 Colonel Evans  had bad to present an Address to the Crown from his constituents on the subject of the removal of the late Ministry, and the appointment of the present Ministers, disapproving of that appointment. He received an account from the Home Secretary, that that and some other addresses to a similar effect, had been delivered to his Majesty, but, as far as his recollection went, it was not said that they had been graciously received. The similarity of form, therefore, spoken of by the right hon. Baronet did not seem to have been altogether strictly adhered to in practice.
 Mr. O'Connell  did not know whether he understood the gallant Colonel. Did he mean to say that he would furnish him with the test which admitted Orange Members into their respective lodges? Would the gallant Colonel give him a copy of the declaration made by each newly elected Orange member? [Colonel  Perceval "[Yes."] 626 627 628 629 630 631 632 633 "No, no!" 634 "No, no, no!" 635 636
 Mr. O'Connell  said, as the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Shaw) had named him (Mr. O'Connell) in connexion with what he would describe to be disturbances in Kerry, he begged to ask him if he were aware that not a single assault or offence against the law was committed during his (Mr. O'Connell's) canvass, or since? If he have not heard of any assault or offence being committed, he requested him to ask the hon. Member for Coleraine (Alderman Copeland) the extent of outrage committed, on the other hand, by the Orangemen in that part of Ireland.
 Mr. O' Connell;  I declare, Sir, solemnly, in the presence of the God that shall judge me, that the whole story is utterly false.
 Lord John Russell  spoke to the following effect: I have paid considerable attention, Sir, to the speech just concluded by the right hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Shaw), and I must confess that to me it appears that the right hon. and learned Gentleman seems to consider, that personal remark and personal invective will suffice to satisfy the House of the soundness of his argument as well as the purity of his intentions. Now, I beg to say, that I, for one, feel little interest in personal remark and invective; and whether the hon. and learned Gentleman be right or wrong in the allusion he made to the circumstances which took place in Dublin and elsewhere, and leaving him to join the Orange Association, or any other society, I do feel, as one interested in the peace of Ireland, that the tone of the right hon. and learned Gentleman—that the violence with which he spoke—that the violence with which he spoke—that the total want of candour which he exhibited towards his political opponents—that the entire absence of moderation in his manner of treating the subject before the House; these things, I say, Sir, do make me seriously regret that his Majesty has chosen him as one of those who are to give him advice in his Privy Council. The right hon. and learned Gentleman has asked me whether I am about to take a part in forwarding the Repeal of the Union, and whether I do not remember the advice given by the King's late Ministers to his Majesty, when Parliament met in February last. Sir, I perfectly well remember it; and I say now, as I did then, that I am ready to oppose, by every means in my power, the Repeal of the Union; because I should consider it equivalent to the separation of the two countries, and the dismemberment
 650 651 652 Shaw 653 Standard, 654
 Lord John Russell,  in explanation, said he was accused of a coalition with the hon. and learned Member for Dublin; he had never asked that hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. O'Connell) to join him. That hon. and learned Gentleman had voted with him (Lord John Russell) on the question of the Reform Bill, and he was again voting on the same side as himself, in the advocacy of Reform principles.
 Major Beauclerk  congratulated the House on the circumstance of one of the strongest supporters of the Poor-laws' Amendment Bill, having at length found out that the measure could not work. [ "No," from Mr. Roebuck. "No"
 Colonel Perceval  said, that as the object of hon. Members was manifestly on former nights, as well as on the present, to impugn his conduct as a member of the Orange Institution; he felt himself called upon when the subject was last under the consideration of the House, to give an unlimited declaration of the principles upon which the Orange Institution was founded. Hon. Members had since then got up one by one and attacked him; and he might almost say that he had run the gauntlet from one end of the Opposition benches to the other. The charges brought forward against the Orange Institution, were founded on surmises which could not. be sustained; and he would once for all assert that those surmises were one and all unfounded. With the view of bringing the matter to an issue, he pledged himself to the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Member for Dublin, to furnish him with every document connected with the Orange Institution; and further, he was ready to avow himself, outside that House, as a member of the Orange body; and he therefore challenged the hon. and learned Gentleman to put to test in his person the legality or illegality of the Institution. An hon. Member on a former night, called upon him to withdraw
 624 O'Connell: 625
 Mr. O'Dwyer  felt himself called upon to offer some remarks to the House on the speech of the right hon. Member who last spoke under the umbrageous protection of the Treasury Bench. He should first thank the hon. and learned Member for informing him and the House, that the right hon. Member held a judicial office. He was sure, that there was very little of judicial demeanour in the exhibition which the right hon. Gentleman had just made, to suggest the fact to the recollection of the House. The House would now understand what quantity of calmness and temperance was required to constitute an
 647 648 649
 Mr. O'Dwyer  would undertake, if the right hon. Secretary supplied the money, that the transaction should be brought before a Court of Justice. The right hon. Gentleman must know that individuals in the situation of the petitioner, could not go into Court without assistance.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  thought that when the hon. Member for the county of Carlow rose, he was going to propose the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the charges which the petitioner brought against Mr. Doyne, the Magistrate. That would have been the most proper and manly way to meet the charge, and do justice to the petitioner. If the hon. Member would propose that course, he would undertake that every allegation in the petition should be proved. He had received the petition from a source of the
 593
 Mr. D. O'Dwyer  presented a Petition from Thomas Butler and Judith his wife, of the county of Carlow. The petition complained, that on Saturday, the night of the 24th of January, after they had retired to rest, a party of police, accompanied by the under agent of Thomas Kavanagh, Esq., a Member of that House, had called at their cottage, dragged them out of their bed and conveyed them to Borris, where they were kept in confinement the remainder of the night, and the whole of the following day; that Judith, one of the petitioners, was the mother of seven children, one of whom was dangerously ill; that she requested to be left with the sick child till morning, and promised to be ready at that time to meet any charge which might be preferred against her; that she was forced from the embraces of her children, and compelled to accompany her husband; and that she was imprisoned with him in a dungeon for the time already mentioned, on a charge which she did not know. The petition further stated, that when the reverend John Walsh inquired of the police serjeant by what authority he had arrested the petitioners, he replied that he had not had any warrant, but that he had arrested them on the order of Mr. Doyne, the Magistrate, and of Mr. Hawkshawe, the chief of the police. The petition added, that Mr. Doyne, was an agent of Mr. Kavanagh, at a salary of 80 l. l. 594 s. s. s., s.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  said, that the petitions had come to him in the usual way, but in consequence of what had just fallen from the hon. and gallant Member, he must now add that they had come to him recommended and confirmed by a gentleman of unquestioned honour and respectability. For his own part, he firmly believed that every allegation in the petition could be substantiated.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  presented a Petition from an individual of the name of Ryan Henessey, residing in the county of Carlow, and complaining of the oppressive treatment which he had experienced from certain magistrates in that county. The petition stated, that on the night of Saturday, the 24th of January last, after the petitioner had gone to bed, a driver belonging to Mr. Kavanagh, a Member of that House, accompanied by a party of police, knocked at his door, and stated that the priest of the parish wanted
 591
 Mr. Littleton  said, that to the petitions which had been received and printed last year there were the names of at least a hundred thousand marksmen attached. It was not many hundred years since Members on entering that House, made their marks, in consequence of their being unable to write their names.
 Mr. Littleton  said, that the Motion of the hon. Member for Armagh contained three distinct Motions for papers relating to three distinct transactions at three different places. The first of them had reference to a transaction which had occurred during the time when he was in office in Ireland. That investigation was completed, and he could have no objection to placing the account of it on the Table.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor.  I give the right hon. Baronet credit for assuming the two distinct characters.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor:  The right hon. Gentleman had attempted to draw some kind of analogy between the Orange Societies and Political Unions. With regard to the proclamation, the right hon. Gentleman was quite mistaken. The Orange associations were contrary to law; but with reference to the Political Unions, the proclamation went no further, as it affected those bodies, than to discourage their assembling in great numbers. He hoped his hon. and learned Friend would press the Motion to a division. However the right hon. Gentleman might attempt, by proving that he acted with the ordinary degree of courtesy, to defend the Government generally, he told him, and he told the House, that the very refusal of Ministers to accede to the Motion would give a triumph to the Orange party in Ireland, and any triumph, however short-lived or ideal, gave that body which had made Ireland a kingdom of poverty, fresh life and vigour. He had intended, in 1822 to publish two large volumes of letters from members of the then government of Ireland to the Orange Association; they were suppressed, no fewer than 3,000 copies having been seized by the High Sheriff of Cork; but he hoped he should be enabled to publish them yet. He hoped the Ministry of the day would not be allowed to give a triumph to this despotic faction to which the whole government of that country was confided, and who insulted and trampled on its population.
 616
 Mr. Mullins  could not permit the assertions made by the right hon. Baronet (the Secretary for Ireland) to pass uncontradicted. He could bear full testimony to the statement made by his hon. Friend the Member for Tralee, with reference to the election for Kerry. His friends had left their tenants to vote as they wished. He had canvassed the whole of the county before the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had made the declaration so much referred to, when almost every tenant on the property of Lord Kenmare had promised their votes for him. He would ask, was the Knight of Kerry first rejected in 1835?—was he not rejected in 1831 and 1833? It was because an independent and enlightened constituency had seen that he who had formerly advocated their interests, did so no longer, but had joined their bitterest enemies. He did not disapprove of the private character of the Knight of Kerry as a gentleman and a Magistrate, apart from his politics. But his principles in 1831 differed from his former principles, and they were called up in judgment against him. When the Knight of Kerry advocated principles different from those of his constituents, they had a right to change their opinions.
 Mr. Shaw:  Sir, with the permission of the House I will answer the question of the hon. Gentleman without one word of comment; he asks me if I am aware of one single fault or offence against the law that was committed in the county of Kerry, before, during, or since the Election? I have been assured, Sir, on the highest authority—and I believe—that, immediately before the Kerry election, the hon. and learned gentleman (Mr. O'Connell) himself went to the house of a man of the name of David Murphy, a Roman Catholic trader in the town of Killarney—asked him not to vote for the Knight of Kerry—and, upon Murphy assuring him that he would, the hon. Gentleman then said he would draw a cross before his door, and that he should feel the consequences; shortly after which the house of this Murphy was broken into, and he was violently assaulted.
 Mr. Shaw:  Sir, I at once submit to your correction. I withdraw my inference, and will simply state the fact; the hon. Gentleman publicly announced, that "whatever miscreant Catholic voted for the Orange Knight of Kerry, should have 'a death's head and cross bones painted over his door.'" I know not what construction Englishmen may put upon this expression, but I am well aware, considering by whom and to whom it was addressed, what meaning it was intended to convey, and did convey, in Ireland. Would the hon. Gentleman, who has talked so much of honest jurors this night, venture to submit the construction of those words to any twelve honest. men upon their oaths? Would he submit them to the opinion of the distinguished Roman Catholic Nobleman who is the Lieutenant of his own county? Were I to mention Lord Kenmare's opinion, I should run the risk of being again out of order—and, good God! Sir, how long is the peace of a country to be sacrificed to the ambition of' one man? and is he to be suffered to enrich himself upon the crimes and the penury of his infatuated countrymen? The hon. and learned Gentleman had animadverted upon the composition of the Government—of his (Mr. Shaw's) right hon. friends below him, and the nature of their supporters; he thought he might very fairly retort upon those on the opposite side, and he would seriously ask the noble lord (Lord John Russell) if he thought he could consistently and honourably descend from the high station he held at the head of the Whig aristocracy in the country and that House, and coalesce with the hon. Member for Dublin and his followers? Did the noble Lord suppose that the House or the country forgot that the last Session of Parliament commenced by the noble Lord and his colleagues putting it into the mouth of
 643 644 645 Cheers from. Mr. O'Connell. 646
 Mr. Shaw  said, he was aware how much the time of the House was wasted, and their patience wearied, with discussions of that nature; more partaking of the character of a personal Irish wrangle, than calculated to lead to any profitable result; he had, however, been so personally alluded to, and so much personal abuse poured upon friends whom he esteemed and valued, that he was persuaded the House would bear with him for a short time in reply to the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. With regard to the Question in point of form before the House, it was not the real object of the Motion of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Sheil) nor of the discussion which followed it; no one doubted that, when congratulatory addresses, respectfully worded, were presented to his Majesty from individuals de-
 637 Cheers from Mr. O'Connell. Continued cheering, in which Mr. O'Connell joined. 638 eo nomine, "No, no!" from Mr. O'Connell 639 640 641 642 O'Connell
 Mr. Shaw  thought that when a serious charge was brought against an individual holding a public office, the accusation
 596 l
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, that if the hon. Member for Drogheda had previously informed him of his intention to bring forward such a charge against a Magistrate, he would have been prepared to meet it; but as the hon. Gentleman had not acquainted him with the allegations beforehand, he could only refer the matter for inquiry to the authorities at Dublin. It was due to the accused Magistrate to state, that from what he (Sir H. Hardinge) had heard of his character, there could be little doubt that he would be able to give a satisfactory explanation of the transaction.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, he should have been happy to let the inquiry proceed in due course of law, rather than have it taken up by the Government; but as the hon. Member had suggested the latter course, he was ready to concur in it.
 Sir Henry Hardinge.  I object to the hon. Member's bringing up this Motion. I object to it, because it is informal, as no notice was given to me that the hon. Member intended to bring it forward this day; and I object to it also, because it is likely to impede the course of justice. I can assure the hon. Member, that I shall have no objection to grant those papers which the Government may think proper; but I ask him to suspend his call for these
 590
 Sir Henry Hardinge  (interrupting the hon. Member) said, that the hon. Member had shown him a paper, for which he supposed he was then going to move. It contained an account of certain transactions which it was alleged had occurred in Armagh. The Government was pursuing an inquiry into those transactions; and, at the present moment it would be impossible to grant this paper without impeding the course of justice.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  hoped the House would allow him to say, that he had nothing to explain or recant on the subject of national education. He had never voted, against the plan of education to which reference had been made, neither had his right hon. Friend. He had not called in question the conduct of the noble Lord when in office as respected that question; but he confessed he could not help feeling some surprise, when he saw that noble Lord the leader of an Opposition which had formed a coalition with the hon. and learned Member for Dublin; when he remembered the conduct of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin in reference to the Ministry of which the noble Lord(Lord John Russell) was a Member, and which he denounced as all that was bad, treacherous, and wicked; and when he recollected that that Government had thought proper to single out that hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. O'Connell) in a speech put into the mouth of his Majesty, in which that Gentleman was almost held out to the country as a fit object for the block; he confessed he could not help feeling some surprise when he found the noble Lord ready to assent to that coalition. He could not help referring to one fact of the conduct of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin: In a speech made by that hon. and learned Gentleman to his constituents, only so recently as the 15th of February last, when he told them he was going to take his seat in Parliament, that he expected an Administration would be formed of which he could consent to form a part, and that he would consent to do so on certain conditions, but that he would never relinquish the Repeal of the Union, nor his hope, that he would one day see a Parliament sitting in College-green. The hon. and learned Gentleman would not deny this; it had been stated in newspapers attached to his cause, to which he could refer. The inconsistency of the Whig party was remarkable in coalescing with the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, who had stated his readiness to take office, for the express purpose of carrying the Repeal of the Union, which nothing should induce him to give up.
 655 Cries of "Name!" 656
 The Speaker  hoped the right hon. Gentleman would not persist in using such language.
 The Speaker  said, that the appointment of the Gentleman who was his chaplain, had been made without any inducement being held out to him of a prospect of preferment.
 The Speaker  asked Mr. Dobbin whether he had given notice to Sir H. Hardinge of his intention to bring on this Motion today.
 The Speaker  said, that as a strict matter of right, any Member of Parliament was entitled to bring on a motion without giving notice of it; but it had been found to conduce much to the convenience of hon. Members, and indeed to the convenience of transacting public business, to give notice beforehand of the day on which any Motion, that was not altogether unimportant, would be brought forward. Unless there were circumstances connected with this Motion of such urgency as to induce the hon. Member to think that they could not admit of delay, he would suggest to him the propriety of withdrawing his present motion, and bringing it forward on another day.
 The Speaker  said, it appeared that the petitioner was not able to write, but that his mark was attached to the petition. Now, the question for the House to decide, was, whether the man was to be deprived of his right of petition because he could not write?
 Mr. Benett  expressed a doubt whether the poor-house mentioned in the petition was a parish workhouse.
 Mr. Roebuck  considered, that the houses to which the poor were sent by the parish officers must be the parish poor-house. At all events, they were so considered, both by the assistant Commissioners and the Commissioners themselves. He commended the conduct of the Commissioners with respect to the case of the Freshford paupers, and said that they rendered the most prompt assistance as soon as the facts were communicated to them. With regard to the Poor-law Amendment Bill, many persons, both in and out of the House, had done much mischief by misleading the people, who neither read nor understood the law, as to the nature of its provisions. The hon. Member for Oldham had been most active in setting his constituents against the law. He and others had chosen to say, that the Bill had taken away all power from the Magistrates. The Bill did no such thing. The power remained to the Magistrates until the rules of the Commissioners should be promulgated. Those rules had not been promulgated, and, therefore, if the law were not carried into effect, the Magistrates had to blame themselves, and not the law. The law would place the poor in that position in which they ought to stand; and if the power to prosecute were given to the Commissioners, the law would be complete, and they would no longer have to complain of the cruelty of parish officers, or of the idleness of unpaid Magistrates.
 Mr. Roebuck  did not think it necessary, after the observations of the right hon. Secretary, to say more on the subject.
 Mr. Roebuck  presented a Petition from Colonel William Napier, complaining of cruelty on the part of the parish officers of Freshford to the paupers of that parish. The hon. Member read the petition, and detailed several cases of great wretchedness and destitution, two of which had ended in death, arising out of inadequate allowances to paupers, in that district. The Poor-law Amendment Bill had been passed with a view to the relief of the poor, and in order to raise them from a state of distress and degradation. The Bill originally contained a clause for the prosecution by the Commissioners of persons who should ill-treat or act with cruelty towards paupers, but that wholesome and necessary power of prosecution was taken away in the Upper House of Parliament. See the situation of the poor, as the law now stood; the persons injured were poor and destitute, and had no redress against their oppressors, unless their case happened to be taken up by some benevolent private individual. Cases of cruelty and oppression ought not to be left to the chance or charity of individuals to punish,—it ought to be the business of a public prosecutor to take them up. It was mainly with a view to enforce the necessity of establishing this principle, that he brought the present case before
 597 s. s. d.
 Mr. Roebuck.  Did the right hon. Gentleman mean to say that, the Poor-law Commissioners having dismissed two individuals as guilty of misconduct, he would at once direct a prosecution to be instituted against the Overseers of the parish of Freshford? Their conduct was a disgrace to a civilized country.
 Mr. Roebuck  observed, that the petition complained of gross misconduct on the part of the overseers, who had been for three years in office.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that the signature of a petitioner was not a stronger proof of the authenticity of a petition than his mark would be. The House had no better means of ascertaining the authenticity of a signature than it had of ascertaining the authenticity of a mark. Why, then, should they place obstacles in the way of the poor unlettered man, who had already difficulty enough in getting his petition put into a shape in which it could be presented to them, when they removed the same obstacles out of the way of the rich man, who found no difficulty in petitioning?
 Mr. Hume  wished to take that opportunity of putting a question to the right hon. Baronet. Hon. Members no doubt had seen a Report of a Committee of that House in which certain changes were recommended to be made in the salary of the Speaker and of his Secretary, and also that a different mode should be adopted with regard to providing the service of plate with which the Speaker had previously been supplied. Many years ago,
 603
 Mr. Hume:  Formerly it was usual on the expiration of the period of service by the Speaker's chaplain, to recommend that individual to preferment. On consideration, the Committee to which he before alluded, thought that that was not the proper way of rewarding the servants of the House of Commons; they, therefore, recommended that whoever should be appointed the Speaker's chaplain, should thenceforth receive a fixed and moderate salary. He begged to ask whether the right hon. Baronet had adopted that recommendation?
 Mr. Dobbin.  I sent him a copy of it.
 Mr. Dobbin.  I was present at all these investigations. I was present when they were finished, and when the papers were sealed up and sent to the Government.
 Mr. Dobbin  said, that the investigations to which the hon. and gallant Officer referred, had, to his knowledge, been closed before he left Armagh. They were closed a month ago. He should, therefore, move that there be laid on the Table of the House a copy of the investigation instituted into certain proceedings at Armagh, which took place on the 5th of last November, between the Magistrates, the police, and the people: also a copy of the investigation instituted at Armagh into the proceedings which took place at Keady, in the county of Armagh, in collecting the tithes of that parish, in which one man was killed, and another wounded; together with a copy of the Coroner's inquest on the person killed. Also a copy of the investigation held at Armagh, into the proceedings which took place there on the 15th of January last, when several houses were destroyed, and fourteen belonging to Catholics in the town and neighbourhood were burnt by a body of armed Orangemen. His object in moving for these papers, was to show how far the lives of his Majesty's Roman Catholic subjects had been protected under the present Government.
 Mr. Dobbin  said, that in consequence of certain observations which had fallen from the hon. Members for Sligo and Armagh, he rose to move for a paper which—
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell:  the right hon. Baronet had declared that he could not amidst his many important avocations, find time to read the newspapers. There was such a thing as a convenient memory; for, when there was anything to suit his purpose, he was found the next minute quoting passages from newspapers, which he stated were of an inflammatory description. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin (Mr. O'Connell) had been acquitted of any intention to threaten, as originally charged against him; but it was said, that the same effect had been produced as if the threat had really been made. The Lord-lieutenant of Kerry had volunteered a pledge to act in a particular way with reference to the elections—that he would not exert the influence of his station over the elections. He further declared, that he was indifferent to both the candidates, and that if any influence were exerted, it would rather be in favour
 657
 Mr. Poulett Scrope,  to prevent any misrepresentation of the case of the parish of Freshford going forth to the public, was anxious that it should be distinctly understood, that all the irregularities complained of in the petition before the House were of more than three years standing. It was, therefore, evident that the Commissioners appointed last year were not responsible for them; but other parties were responsible besides the overseer, and those parties were the Magistrates. The law, as it existed before the passing of the Act of last year, and as it now existed, gave the neighbouring Magistrates sufficient power to put an end to the abuses which had prevailed in the parish of Freshford. It was perfectly true that the Poor-laws' Amendment Act took from the
 601
 Mr. Sheil.  That was precisely what he wished to show. It was to this very statement of the right hon. Baronet, that he had referred.
 Mr. Sheil  begged to interrupt the right. hon. Baronet for a moment. He had never charged him with having encouraged these Societies.
 Mr. Sheil  begged to explain. He felt the justice of the objection on the part of his Majesty's Government, that they were taken by surprise in being called upon to produce a document, respecting which no notice had been given. The fact was, that on looking into the question, he found that an opinion had been given by the Law Officers of the Crown, and that a letter had been written by Lord Manners; and he had included both documents in his Motion, not imagining that his Majesty's Government would object to the production of them. As the objection had been raised, however, and in order that the Ministers might have the opportunity of considering whether there were any grounds for the withholding that document, he would not press for its production then, but would move for it hereafter. The right hon. Baronet had accused him of an intention to resort to physical strength. [The  Chancellor of the Exchequer: 623
 Mr. Kavanagh  contended, that there ought to be some voucher to prove the genuineness of the petitioner's mark. It there were no attestation attached to it any man might libel the character of another in that House with impunity. He believed, that the allegations of the petitioner were all false, especially those which reflected on that respectable magistrate Mr. Doyne.
 Mr. Kavanagh  said, that among other phrases which he had heard the hon. Member for Drogheda utter he had distinguished this—"If this case be proved." He (Mr. Kavanagh) would use that phrase too. He would say—"If this case can be proved." But it could not; for the information on which the hon. Member was proceeding was in every respect incorrect. In short, the only reply he should give was, that the charge was wholly and perfectly false.
 Mr. Ewart  observed, that what had been stated by the hon. Gentleman who presented the petitions was quite sufficient to authenticate them; and the objection which had been made to them ought not to enter into the equitable consideration of the House.
 Sir John Campbell.  The petition is already signed, for a man may sign by his mark. That is admitted to be a signature in every Court of Law. You are bound to give credit to it as a man's signature, until the contrary is shown.
 Colonel Evans presented a petition from a Greenwich pensioner, who complained that Government having induced him to accept of a commutation of his pension, under the promise of giving him a free passage to Canada and some land there, had subsequently refused to fulfil the agreement. His pension was 4 l l 660
 Lord Stanley assured the House he had no intention whatever to rise on the present occasion, feeling as he did that his own vindication, if any were necessary, had been amply and honourably furnished by the statement of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Rice) who had just sat down. He was under no apprehension that he should be tempted to pursue the course followed by the hon. and learned Member for Bath; and with regard to the personal attacks which had been made on him, he felt he should best consult his own credit, and the good taste of the House, by entirely and at once passing them over without a single comment, as altogether unworthy of the slightest notice. So far as the accusation went of his having in an official situation neglected his public duty, and tended to alienate the affections of his Majesty's Canadian subjects, his answer was, that last year, when the hon. and learned Member for Bath, on the part of the present petitioners, called for a Parliamentary Committee, in order to investigate this matter—his answer was, "Let there be a Committee of the House of Commons; let them go into every one of the charges;" and his promise was, which he realised to the letter, that from the stores of the Colonial Department, from every means he had of giving information, nothing should be withheld, nothing concealed, entertaining sincerely the desire, that the whole matter should be more fully, more perfectly, and more impartially gone into than in the hurried space of a general discussion in that House. Into every one of the charges they did go; and what was the course which the hon. and learned Member then pursued? The House of Assembly, or rather the majority of that House, had, in order to substantiate their allegations, sent over persons to act as their agents. On each separate charge one of those individuals was examined by the hon. Member himself; on every one of the ninety-two articles the hon. and learned Member, before any other step was taken in the Committee, was asked whether he had anything to say, and he (Lord Stanley) was
 696 697
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer. I beg to assure the hon. Member who has
 700 701 702 703 704 705
 Mr. Baring in rising, begged to observe that no course that could possibly be adopted was so likely to injure the cause of the Colonist, and none that he should so sincerely deprecate, as untimely discussion and violent declamation. He had been acquainted with many of the best informed men in the Colonies for many years, and they were unanimously of opinion that with all its defects the present Constitution had been of the greatest possible benefit. He was told that only an ideal frontier separated the Colonies from the United States. He had himself been there, and looked across that frontier, and from inquiries that he had made, he did not think the contiguity so dangerous as Gentlemen on the opposite side were inclined to insinuate, for he found that from 10,000 to 20,000 settlers had gone from the one place to the other, and now acted as loyal subjects to the King. When he saw, too, that people went in large numbers to settle in Upper Canada—not in Lower Canada among the French, he felt inclined to attribute the dissent expressed to the Constitution of Government, to the excitement maintained and the differences fomented by the enemies of order both in England and in the Colonies. Add to this the disagreement between two nations, both of a national and religious nature, and the House need no longer entertain any surprise, that neither the present Government nor its predecessor had been able to tranquillise the Colony. When hon. Gentlemen invoked the observance of the Constitution of Lower Canada, they should first show how it had been violated. Nine-tenths of the complaints against Government were for violating the Constitution. That Constitution
 710
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn replied that the individual to be deputed from the Government of this country was to be only a Commissioner. Not having been in the House when the right hon. Baronet, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, explained his intentions he could not satisfy the hon. Member on the other point.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer objected to the course which the hon. and learned Member was pursuing as unparliamentary and unprecedented. The hon. Member was reading to the House quotations from the evidence taken before a Committee of the House which had never been laid on the Table, and which was, consequently, not within the cognizance of the House.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer said, that he had expressly desired to avoid entering into the subject, because the effects of a preliminary discussion might have the effect of prejudicing the question at present pending. He thought the Canadian House of Assembly was a fitter place to entertain complaints of the nature of those contained in the petitions in the first instance than the British House of Commons, to which an ultimate appeal only ought to be addressed.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer said, that if the first speech of the hon. Gentleman had partaken of even a portion of the spirit of forbearance which pervaded the second, no observations should have fallen from him which contained a syllable of reproach or invective. He congratulated the hon. Member on the altered tone of his second address, which he said was conceived and expressed in a far wiser, better, and more temperate spirit than the first. He would add, that every possible degree of caution had been used in the
 715
 Mr. Baring thought, that the hon. Member could not for a moment suppose that there was any disposition in any part of the House to refuse the most ample attention to so important a subject. He had stated to the hon. Member what he had stated to the House, that if the case of distress had come to him as one single question he should have decided it as the
 716
 Mr. Baring had said nothing of the sort. All he had said, was, that he did not thing that any relief could be afforded by any of the means that had been suggested to the Committee, or by any legislative interference.
 The Solicitor-General said, that in moving for leave to bring in a Bill of which he had given notice on a previous night, he must claim the indulgence of the House while he stated, as briefly as was possible, the circumstances under which he had felt himself called upon to act. He was quite aware that Bills of indemnity for any violation of the law, or indeed any measure which had a retrospective object, ought not, and would not, be dealt lightly with by the Legislature; but in this instance he believed he could satisfy the House, that the violations of the law had been so inadvertent, the conduct of the informer so
 719 l. l.; l. 720 l. l. l., l. 721 722 723
 Mr. Curteis said, that the thanks, not only of the press, but of the public generally, were justly due to the hon. and learned Solicitor-General, for the prompt manner in which he had attended to the request made to him the other night. The learned Solicitor-General had alluded to a case of great hardship, in Cornwall, but, he knew another equally harsh case. He held in his hand a newspaper, the proprietor of which was liable to penalties of 10,500 l
 Mr. Bonham Carter said, that as the actions which the common informer had brought against the proprietors of newspapers were numerous, so were the errors various, which had given rise to those actions. He hoped that the hon. and learned Solicitor-General would not limit his indemnity clause to that class of errors which he had stated, but would word it in such a manner as to include every case. It would expedite the public business, by saving hon. Gentlemen the trouble of adding to the clause, particular words to meet particular cases.
 The Solicitor-General said, that his hon. and learned Friend had asked him, whether his clause of indemnity would extend to all cases. It would do so by stopping all actions of this nature. The Bill would prevent the common informer from bringing an action at all. He intended it to be as complete as possible.
 Sir G. Clerk presumed that the hon. Member had had some communication with his hon. Friend the Secretary for the Colonies on this subject. He was not aware that there was any objection to this Motion; but the facts were new to him, and he was not prepared to give an opinion upon them. He felt, however, great sympathy for those whose calamities the hon. Member had so forcibly depicted, and was quite certain that their unfortunate condition would command the immediate attention of the Government of this country.
 Lord Ashley said, the facts of the case were, that-the petitioner received his pension in the year 1813. In 1818, at his own request, and on his own application, the pension of 41. a-year was commuted for 8 l.
 Lord Francis Egerton rose to return his thanks to his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade, for acceding to the Motion before the House. He was fully aware of the inconvenience, nay of the dangerous consequences, of holding out hopes of relief to unfortunate persons, which Parliament might find it impossible to realize. In supporting the Motion for the appointment of a Committee, he felt that it was, in his situation, a primary and imperative duty to avoid, for any purposes of partial or temporary popularity—for a very temporary popularity it would be —holding out to distressed classes of labourers, any hopes of relief which might
 718
 Mr. Aaron Chapman said, that the Solicitor-General deserved the thanks of the community, for the prompt attention with which he had applied a remedy to this species of grievance. There were three individuals, in the borough which he represented, against whom actions had been brought to recover penalties amounting to 5,000 l l
 Mr. Baines felt under a great obligation to the learned Solicitor-General, for the promptitude he had shown in this business. He begged to suggest to the hon.
 724
 Mr. Robinson would ask the hon. Member, whether he had not mentioned to the people the possibility of their being called upon to appeal to arms. He recollected, however, that the hon. Member for Middlesex, with whom the hon. Member for Bath was in the habit of acting, alluded to the Canadians resorting to arms in a certain contingency with something like approbation. He could not but complain that such dangerous language was used to the Colonists; and he firmly believed that nothing tended so much to prevent a satisfactory settlement of the Canadian dispute, as the conduct of the hon. Member for Bath and the hon. Member for Middlesex. Those hon. Gentlemen had by their conduct, sanctioned many of the charges brought by the Canadians against the British Land Company. The hon. Member for Bath had even gone the length of allowing his name to be used in connexion with a statement which declared, that those who purchased land from that Company, bought it without a legal title, and might be dispossessed of it. But he must declare, that the tenure of the land sold to the emigrants to Lower Canada was as good as that in any other of the Colonies; and that the whole end and object of bringing these charges was to prevent the emigration of British settlers
 699
 Mr. Robinson declared that, in the whole course of his Parliamentary experience, he had never heard a more unfair, distorted, and intemperate address than that of the hon. and learned Member for Bath. In one respect that hon. and learned Gentleman was a fit and proper representative of the Canadas—he represented all their intemperance. He did not deny that there was much to complain of on their part, but there was every disposition in the House and in the Government to look into the question with a view to its satisfactory adjustment. The hon. and learned Gentleman, however, told them, that the Canadian party would never be satisfied unless they had an effective legislative council. That might or might not be a proper thing to introduce into the Colonies, but such an experiment would be a com-
 698
 Mr. Labouchere contended, that when the Constitution was granted in the time of Pitt, there was an understanding that it was not final, but that it was to be open to such improvement as might, from time to time, appear desirable. He hoped it would not go forth to the Colony, that the Government would resist any alteration in the Constitution. He would not give any opinion as to the alterations necessary to be made in the Constitution of Canada; but he trusted it would not go forth to the public, that the Government of this country was disposed to resist the adoption of all necessary ameliorations. The hon. Member concluded by expressing a wish to be satisfied upon two points; first, whether the complaints of the people of the Canadas would be referred to the Legislature or the Governor; and, secondly, whether the person who was to be deputed from this country was to be created Governor of the Colony,
 Mr. Bagshaw reminded the House of the afflicting news which had been received within the last ten days, from the eastern part of the Colony of the Cape of Good Hope. That news had filled the friends
 726 727 l. commando, 728 729
 Mr. Bagshaw said, that he had ascertained that evening that Government had received no dispatches on this subject.— The public, however, thought that des-
 730
 Mr. John Maxwell said, that in moving for the re-appointment of the Committee of Inquiry into the distresses of the Hand-loom Weavers he would first lay before the House a Petition to that effect which had been signed by 12,000 of that body of operatives employed in Perth. As he believed there would not be any opposition offered to his present motion, he would not trouble the House at any length. He would first move "That the report upon the subject made by the Committee of last Session be read at the Table of the House;" and the Report having been read, the hon. Member moved, that a Committee be appointed to inquire into the condition of the hand-loom weavers, and to report upon the same to the House. It was scarcely necessary for him to mention, that the distress of this large and useful class of persons had been ascertained, by an inquiry last year, to be very great and extensive. He trusted, that the House would not now reject the petition because it came from persons who happened not to be of any class sitting in that House, or who had not yet received their elective franchise. He rather hoped that the House on those grounds would feel the greater sympathy with them, and he likewise trusted, that those who advocated the distresses of the agricultural poor, and of other classes of labourers, would sympathise with the hand-loom weavers, who were as badly off as any body of distressed persons in the kingdom.
 Mr. Roebuck begged to set the hon. Member for Worcester right. That hon. Member had misrepresented him. He did not advise the Colonists to appeal to arms, but he recommended them to pursue any other course rather than resort to arms.
 Mr. Roebuck said, in reference to the language used by him, and which had been complained of by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that on this subject he could not avoid expressing, in plain honest words, his sense of the injury done to the Colony. He was peculiarly connected with Canada, and the people there had done him the honour of corresponding much with him on the subject of their grievances. He was acquainted with large numbers of the inhabitants of those countries, and was he, therefore, so representing their feelings, and representing them as a Member of that House—was he, in well-rounded phrase, to represent them as loyal, contented, and happy, when he well knew that was not the state of their mind? In Mr. Burke's speech on the subject of the American Colonies in 1774 he said, "You must not state such things of the Colonies, for that they were about to be driven to rebellion." That House was at that period petitioned over and over again without any attention being paid, or remedy afforded. He believed the present state of the Canadas was similar
 714
 Mr. Roebuck: I am charged, Sir, with a petition from certain Members of the Legislative Council, and House of Assembly of Lower Canada, complaining of the grievances under which they labour; and I would most earnestly entreat the House to bestow upon it a calm, serious, and anxious consideration. A more important document has not been laid before it, since the disastrous period of 1774. Then, in a humble but firm manner, our North American colonies laid before this House a statement of the grievances under which they laboured. The prayers of the colonists were, unhappily for this kingdom,
 661 662 663 664 665 666 667 668 par excellence, 669 670 671 672 en bloc En bloc en bloc 673 674 675 676 677 678 679 l. 680 l. l. l. l l 681 682
 Mr. Hume said, that no man in that House who had attended to the evidence on the Table, could avoid desiring to afford the sufferers every possible means of relief. He had stated, when the last Committee was formed, that every measure advanced before that Committee would fail in its object, but he had nevertheless voted for the Committee, in order that the parties suffering might have an opportunity of stating what their sufferings were. That Committee had gone into a full statement of the distress, and he now wished to ask his hon. Friend who had made the Motion, whether it was his intention to go into any further evidence?
 Mr. Hume said, that the hon. Member for Worcester (Mr. Robinson), with his usual disregard of facts, had told the House that the petition that had been presented, did not represent the feelings and wishes of the colonists! but he would ask, in what better mode than by such a petition could their wishes and feelings be ascertained? The disputes existed, be it
 706 707 708 709
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart said, that he was connected with the British Canadian interest, and was therefore competent to discuss the subject of the petition. He did not think that the grievances were so great as that document stated, and he believed that some of them did not exist. From his knowledge of these Colonies, he was safe in saying, that all the petitions from thence would not be on one side; and he was satisfied that in the course of a few days the House might reckon upon several counter petitions from them. He fully agreed with the right hon. Baronet, and was of opinion, that if his suggestion were carried into effect the Colonies would be secured from anarchy and Republicanism, while the people would have the full enjoyment of all their national rights.
 Mr. Sheil then proceeded to read from the Report of the Committee a copy of a despatch, dated Colonial Office, 1830, and addressed to the Bishop of Quebec in support of his statement.
 Mr. Sheil had found the Report on the Table of the House, and had only made the same use of it as his hon. Friend the Member for Bath had done, without incurring the reprehension of the right hon. Baronet. The right hon. Baronet relied on the Report of the Committee, yet he would not permit the evidence on which it was founded to be used. But he would ask, did that Report exculpate the Governor of the Canadas or contradict the statements made by the hon. Member for Bath? He would maintain it did not. The hon. and learned Member concluded by urging on the consideration of the House the necessity of entering into the subject divested of all party spirit; and redressing the wrongs of the Colonists with reference only to their nature and amount.
 Mr. Sheil said, that the right hon. Member for Cambridge had stated certain facts which were corroborative of the circumstances of a similar character adduced by the hon. Member for Bath. It appeared on the showing of all concerned, that a serious and important difference
 711 l l 712
 Mr. Attwood continued. He begged the right hon. Gentleman's pardon. The right hon. Gentleman had said that the measures that had been recommended to the Committee were not calculated to give relief. He agreed in this particular with the right hon. Gentleman; but he denied that it thence followed, that Parliament could adopt no measures whatever calculated to attain the object in view. All he could say was, that if 80,000 persons were in great distress, and Parliament could afford them no relief, he did not know what the House sat there for. He would maintain that the wrongs of these people
 717
 Mr. Thomas Attwood: The right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had said, that it was not possible to improve the condition of the 80,000 persons who had petitioned the House.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton concurred with the hon. Member who had just sat down, in all the expressions of horror which had been called from him by the late sanguinary proceedings in the neighbourhood of Graham's-town. He hoped, however, that our treatment of the natives in that Colony would undergo strict revision, for sure he was, that our treatment of them had been such as to make every honest man blush. He could mention several instances of atrocious robbery and cruelty which had been committed by the Colonists in Southern Africa, under the pretext of recovering stolen cattle from the Caffres; and knew that on one occasion the Boors had turned upon a number of unarmed Caffres, who were quietly watching their proceedings, and had shot seven of them without any provocation. He was certain that the Colony would never enjoy permanent prosperity, if substantial justice were not done between the natives and the Colonists. He thought that a Lieutenant-Governor and a civil Magistrate ought to be appointed to reside in that part of the Colony.
 Mr. Spring Rice denied the accuracy of the hon. and learned Member's statement.
 Mr. Spring Rice requested the indulgence of the House while he endeavoured to give some explanation with respect to his own share in the transactions which had
 683 684 685 686 687 688 Roebuck 689 690 691 692 693 694 695
 Captain Pechell also tendered his thanks to the Solicitor-General on behalf of his constituents. The town which he had the honour of representing, had been peculiarly marked out by this informer. This Bill was a boon which would give great satisfaction to that town. It would almost give the inhabitants as much satisfaction, as the repeal of the Malt-tax or the repeal of the Window-duties.
 The Attorney-General said, it would be extremely inconvenient to insert into the present Bill any such clause as that which the hon. Member suggested. The object of the Bill was, simply to set aside all the pending proceedings, and to prevent their recurrence in future; and if it were to be accompanied by any alteration of the existing laws, or, indeed, embraced any but the single object, the Bill might meet with opposition and be unsuccessful elsewhere, or it might be so long delayed, as that the mischiefs it was designed to prevent might be effected. He had felt, in conjunction with his hon. and learned Friend, the Solicitor-General (for he begged to share with him the responsibility of this measure) that it was their duty, as the Law Officers of the Crown, themselves to bring forward and take the responsibility of an  ex post facto 725
 Sir John Campbell expressed his entire concurrence in the measure which had been proposed by his hon. and learned Friend, the Solicitor-General. The language of the act of 1798, was extremely ambiguous, and when he had read the section of the clause in question, it appeared to him very doubtful whether, or not, in these cases, it had been violated. The proceedings of the informer, in the present instance, were most pettifogging, and, as he thought, most scandalous. He could claim no favour, and if he were secured the costs he had incurred, he would get as much as he could require, or as he deserved. He agreed with his hon. and learned Friend, in thinking, that for the future, the recovery of these penalties should be left to the Attorney-General, and the Law Officers of the Crown. In all respects, he thought the Bill most unexceptionable, and he trusted that it would meet with no opposition.
 Mr. Hutt said, that the last Committee had followed up the evidence with ability, and it was because he was interested in the sufferings of these labourers, that he was anxious not to let it go forth amongst them that relief could spring from the present proceedings. Legislation on this subject would disgrace the reign of Henry the 8th, and much more disgraceful was it to the present age, which had acquired such additional lights upon political science. He was opposed to the proposition before the House, because he was convinced that it would afford no help to the suffering classes.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer:  I submit to the good sense of the House whether it is not the duty of every hon. Gentleman who is at all interested in the remission of any of
 735
 The Marquess of Chandos  said, that in pursuance of the notice which he had given he was about to address the House upon a question of very considerable importance, not only to the constituency whom he had the honour to represent, but to the country at large; and whatever motives might be ascribed to him for bringing this Motion forward he could assure the House and the country that he was actuated by only one motive in introducing it, and that was the benefit which he thought the country at large would derive from the repeal of the Malt-tax. That was his only object, and by no other earthly motive was he actuated. He begged to assure the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government that he had not the slightest wish or intention—no such desire had ever entered his mind as to embarrass the Government by the course which he meant to pursue. He acted from a sense of the duty which he owed to the country, and in conformity with a promise which he had made to his constituents in submitting the present Motion to the House; and having once given a pledge, nothing under heaven should prevent him from redeeming his word. In bringing forward this subject again he was quite aware that he had no argument to
 738 
 
 1787 it was 10s. 6d. 
 1791 12s. 6d. 
 1802 18s. 6d. 
 1804 38s. 6d. s. d.; 739 740 741 s. l. s. l. l. s. s. d. l., l. 742 743 744 l. 745 746 747
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer*  spoke to the following effect: the course which I intend to pursue in the present Debate makes me peculiarly anxious to rise at an early period of the discussion, when I am not likely to be diverted by any reference to topics of party excitement from the attempt to call the attention of the House—not to matters mixed up with political considerations, affecting merely the interests of parties in the state, but to the review of those facts and arguments upon which their judgment ought to be formed, and the exclusion of which from their consideration would, in my opinion, produce the most serious prejudice to the best interests of the country. The question which must this night be decided involves interests so complicated and comprehensive, as to impose upon the House—upon that jury of which the noble Marquis has spoken, the solemn obligation of finding their verdict upon the dictates of their conscientious conviction. I too call upon this Jury, impannelled on this high occasion, to decide, not on partial opinion, not upon promises rashly and inconsiderately made, not upon unsound prejudices, not with reference to the particular interest of any one class of the community, but as becomes a Jury, upon a comprehensive view of the merits of the whole question, upon a calm consideration of the evidence I shall offer, and the arguments I shall adduce. * 757 758 l. l. l.; l., l., l.; l.; l.; l.; l. l., l.; l. 759 l. l.; l. 760 s. 761 
 
 For the year 1831 £4,208,000 
 1832 4,675,000 
 1833 4,772,000 
 1834 4,812,000 762 
 
 In the first of these periods the number of bushels brought to market was 18,509,904 
 In the second 19,356,683 
 Being an increase in the latter, as compared with the former, of 846,779 763 764 765 s. d., 
 
 Rate per Cent. Rate of Duty. on Market Prices. 
 On Port and Sherry 5 s. d. 85 
 Coffee, West India 6 d. 63 
 Ditto, East India 9 d. 106 
 Tea 100 
 English Spirits 7 s. d. 333 
 Rum 9 s. d. 407 
 Brandy 22 s. d. 627 
 Geneva 930 766 s. d. l.; l. l. l. l. s. s. d. s. d. 767 s.; s. s. s. s., s. d., s. d. s. s. d. s. d. l., 768 Cobbett: 769 l. 770 771 772 l., s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d., 773 s. s. 774 l., l. s. s. 775 s. s. d. s. d. s. d.; s. d. 776 l., l. 777 l. l. l. l. 778 l. l. 779 s. bonâ fide
 Lord Norreys  said, that having voted in favour of Sir William Ingilby's Motion last Session he was anxious to state briefly the grounds on which he proposed to give his support to the right hon. Baronet on the present occasion. In the first place, upon a review of the circumstances under which those Motions were brought forward he found them totally and entirely different. Last year the Chancellor of the Exchequer came down to the House, and after stating, that a large surplus revenue rendered a reduction of taxation to a large amount practicable left it to the House to say which branch of taxation should be reduced. Upon this, Sir William Ingilby moved for a Committee to inquire how far a partial or total Repeal of the Malt-tax was practicable, and as the landed interest at the time stood much in need of relief he voted for that Committee, in the hope that it might recommend the surplus revenue to be applied to that purpose. The motion of Sir William Ingilby was in the end defeated, but he believed he was justified in saying that the scanty relief the agricultural interest did receive, was attributable to its being mooted. But what, on the other hand, were the circumstances of the case at the present moment? There was a new Government, just come into office, with every disposition to be friendly to the agricultural interest, and immediately the noble Lord pounced upon them, and, apparently forgetting that there was not now the same surplus revenue to deal with, asked, not even for a partial, but a total repeal of the tax. But supposing the Government to comply with his demand, the question was, would not the tax which it would be necessary in the present state of the revenue to substitute, prove as burthensome and oppressive to the landed interest, as the Malt-tax? Looking at the constitution of the House, and recollecting the preponderance of representation enjoyed by the manufacturing over the agricultural
 781 782
 The Earl of Darlington  said, he was rather anxious to address a few observations to the House on this occasion. He was not much in the habit of occupying the attention of hon. Members, but if ever there was an occasion which called for a few remarks from him, this was the one. He would commence by saying, that having had the honour of presenting to the House a petition to-day from the county he represented, as worthy of attention from the great number who had signed it, as from the respectability of the signatures attached to it, signatures comprising those of the great mass of respectable yeomen and farmers in that part of the country, all praying for the Repeal of the Malt-tax—looking at that petition, and considering all the circumstances attending it, he felt it to be his duty to support the Motion of his noble Friend. In adopting this course, after the very able speech that had been made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and after the effect which his arguments must have had on many hon. Members, for great weight his arguments always had, he felt fully convinced, that any arguments he could adduce on the other side, would come but with a very bad grace; nevertheless, he had a public duty to perform, and he would state such arguments as occurred to him in defence of the course he was about to pursue, more especially, as he was aware that even amongst some of his old friends he might be subjecting himself to the imputation of either giving a factious vote, or a vote embarrassing to the Government, to whom he was friendly. In the outset, he trusted, however, that he might be allowed to endeavour to set himself right in that respect. With regard to a factious vote, he could assert with confidence that, in the whole course of his Parliamentary life,
 786 787 l. 788 d. s. d. s.; s. d., s. d., s., s. d. 789
 Mr. Baring  had not intended to have spoken on the question, in consequence of the masterly statement of the right hon. Baronet at his side having completely superseded the necessity of his doing so; but that he was, notwithstanding, compelled to offer a few observations on the course of argument and invective, personal to himself, which hon. Members had pursued in the discussion of the question. He could not conceive how it was or why, in a fair Debate, on an open question like the one before the House, hon. Members should indulge in crimination and recrimination, especially how they could have selected his public conduct as the object of their particular attack. The hon. Member for Halifax, for instance, had spoken of him as a person ready at all times to throw over his principles to suit his purposes; and which, he would leave it to the House to confirm his assertion, was anything but the fact. He deprecated the observations of the hon. Member the more, as he had ever held a high opinion of him, and his pain and surprise was consequently greater from the great amount of his esteem towards him. He should not stoop to repel the unjustifiable attack of the hon. Member. If his own conduct in that House did not shield him from such hostility all he could say on the subject would not suffice to exculpate him. He should therefore not condescend to reply to the attack so gratuitously made on him by the hon. Member, the late Secretary to the Treasury. The House was competent to do him justice in both instances. With respect to the observations of his right hon. Friend, the Member for Cambridge, he confessed he felt more sympathy. He could not conceal from himself, that they were calculated to inflict much pain; but as he was innocent of having given cause for them, they failed in inflicting it. They were dictated, he believed, by the supposition, that he (Mr. Baring) had made use of the words quoted by him, and on that supposition he could easily account for their acerbity. But he could assure the
 804 animus 805 l., 806 l. l. l. l. l., 807 s., s. s.; s., 808 l.
 Sir Roger Greisley  said, that having been made the object of personal attack by an hon. Member opposite, he trusted that he should be allowed to say one or two words. In the first place, he must say, that the attack which had been made upon him, came with a bad grace from those on the other side, who, having pledged themselves to support the proposition, that the late Speaker should again take the Chair of this House, and who admitted the fitness of that right hon. Gentleman for that office, had turned round to serve the views of a faction. He dismissed that subject. He could not in that House submit to the charge of inconsistency, which had been raised by the hon. Member upon the terms of a speech which he (Sir Roger Greisley) had delivered during the late election, without stating the grounds upon which he had resolved to alter his course. He felt it
 828
 Colonel Sibthorpe  said, that it had been his intention, at first, to request the indulgence of the House whilst he made a few remarks upon the important question under debate. He would now trespass on their attention only for one second, seeing that an Hon. Friend of his who resided in the same county with him had seconded the Motion of the noble Marquess. No one was more attached than he was to the prosperity of agriculture, since it was the source from which he drew every enjoyment in life. But feeling as he did in the present state of the affairs of the country, and seeing that the late Administration intended by no act of theirs to grant relief to the agricultural interests, and believing that the right hon. Baronet, at the head of one of the most important branches of the Government, was disposed to give every relief to the agricultural interests consistent with the maintenance of the honour and dignity of the State, and thinking that the right hon. Baronet ought to have a fair trial—taking all those circumstances into consideration, and deeming besides that the Motion of the noble Marquess was very premature he could not bring himself to vote in favour of it. He held in his hand several documents which the lateness of the hour prevented him from reading) to prove that the Repeal of the Malt-tax would not be of such very great benefit to the agriculturist. He had heard many persons engaged in agriculture say both at their public meetings and in private, that the Repeal of the Malt-tax would not be of such benefit to the farmer and landowner as his hon. Friend (Mr. Handley) had stated it would be, and those individuals dreaded that a Property-tax would lay a burthen tenfold greater upon them. For these reasons he would vote with the right hon. Baronet, and would continue to do so until that right hon. Gentleman proved himself unworthy of his support.
 Mr. Hodges  on rising, was assailed with general cries of "Divide." He assured hon. Members, that it was always with very great unwillingness that he intruded on their attention. He never made long speeches; but if he were not allowed to offer a few observations in support of his vote on the present occasion, he should be obliged to move the adjournment of the House. Petitions had been intrusted to his care from every part of the county of Kent, praying for a Repeal of the Malt-
 830 831
 Mr. Curteis,  although not friendly to the present Ministry, would not violate, to turn them out, a thousandth part of the recorded pledge given by the hon. Member for Derby. He had presented numerous petitions from his constituents against the Malt-tax, and in no Question were they more deeply interested than in the present. Before he had a seat in Parliament he advocated a Repeal of that tax, therefore it could not be now a matter of surprise if he voted for the Motion of the noble Marquess. A substitute might be found for that tax by an equalisation of the Land-tax by which 3,000,000 l. s. s.
 The Marquess of Chandos  briefly replied. He regretted that so many hon. Members should have thought that his Motion was brought forward at an unseasonable moment. Had he seen any cause to hope that the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in laying before the House his budget, would propose either a Repeal of a part or the whole of the Malt-tax he would not have
 833 l. l. l. in toto 834
 Lord Ashley  complained that in his absence from the House it had been said that he had done in office what he would not do out of office. It had been said that he had voted for the Repeal of the Malt-tax on a former occasion, and that he would vote for a continuance of the tax
 809
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  was anxious to state the grounds upon which he should give his vote that night, and more especially, the financial grounds on which he rested that vote. The right hon. Gentleman had observed, and it was quite true, that it was very inconvenient to enter into a discussion on financial matters before the regular statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Admitting this, however, he must regret that the right hon. Baronet had not seen fit to take, even thus early in the Session, an opportunity of doing that which had been done by his predecessors in office—namely, giving some rough statement of the financial condition of the country, without waiting for the introduction of the budget, which could only be brought forward after the estimates. A statement of this kind had been made in February, last year, and in April, of the year before, and at an early period in other years. The present right hon. Secretary for the Home Department had pursued this course when he was Chancellor of the Exchequer, in 1830. It would be, he contended, a great advantage to the House, not only in discussing a question like the present, but generally, if the right hon. Baronet had favoured them with some such financial explanation. At that early period it must necessarily be somewhat vague, but he trusted the right hon. Gentleman would see the expediency of putting it forth speedily, and, at all events, that he would not defer his statement to the end of the financial year, but would, upon the occasion of their going into a Committee of Supply, or some such other occasion, follow the example of his predecessors. He was extremely sorry to find, from the right hon. Baronet's statement, that there would not be a surplus of more than 250,000 l., 810 811
 Mr. Charles Wood,  in explanation, said, that he had no intention, in any allusions he had made to the right hon. Gentleman, to go beyond the limits of fair political debate. He had no intention of making a personal attack upon the right hon. Gentleman, and if he had said anything to induce a contrary belief, he was very sorry for it, and begged to assure the right hon. Gentleman that nothing could be further from his thoughts than the desire to offer him any personal offence.
 Mr. Charles Wood  said, that although the noble Lord (Darlington) had given him some temptation, by an allusion to the factious motives, which the noble Lord alleged to have guided the Opposition on previous occasions, he should not enter into the charge, but content himself by simply resting his defence from such an imputation, on the vote he was prepared to give in concurrence with his Majesty's Ministers. in giving that vote, however, he assured the noble Lord, he was not insensible to that distress, which had been described as so prevalent among the agricultural interests of the country. Indeed, deriving, as he did, whatever income he possessed, exclusively from land, he could not be indifferent to any pressure which existed, and which he himself felt, nor unwilling to listen to any proposal, by which in justice and fairness, it could be removed. If, then, he came to a different conclusion in the present instance, and gave his vote against the Repeal of the Malt-tax, it was from no want of sympathy for the interests of the farmer, but because he believed that the benefit which would accrue to him from its remission would be so small, that it could not for a moment, be put in competition with the inconvenience and evils that must inevitably arise from the loss of so large an amount of the public revenue. It was his conviction that all taxes, such as the present, imposed on articles of consumption, were paid mainly by the consumer; and fairly so, unless the tax was so high as materially to diminish the consumption of the article. He could refer, without fear of contradiction, to those details which had been furnished by the Chancellor of the Exchequer to-night, in order to prove that the consumption of beer had not diminished in the country; that the tax, therefore, being as he believed, paid by the consumer of beer, the relief afforded to the agriculturist, by its repeal, would after all be extremely small. He was also ready to concur in a state-
 790 l. 791 792 793
 Mr. Kelly  presented a Petition from the Innkeepers and Licensed Victuallers of Ipswich, praying for the removal of the additional duty which was placed during the last year on spirits. The hon. and learned Gentleman expressed a hope that the subject would speedily undergo the consideration of the Government, and said, that if it did not, he should feel it his duty to submit a Motion on the subject to the House in the course of the present Session.
 Mr. Grote  was only induced to rise on the present occasion, in consequence of having been alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Sir James Graham). That right hon. Gentleman had revived (in terms of which he did not now complain) some complimentary fancies, and announced to the House a few nights back by his hon. Friend, the Member for North Derbyshire. His hon. Friend had been pleased to connect his (Mr. Grote's) name with a possible Ministry; he, however, regretted such a fancy had ever been started, inasmuch as such a situation was as much above his ambition, as it would be foreign to his taste, his pursuits, and his interests. As the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Sir James Graham) had united his (Mr. Grote's) name, as a Member of a Cabinet, with those of the hon. Member for Middlesex, and of the hon. Member for Southwark, he must be allowed to state, that in his person such a Ministry would not be united upon the question of the Malt-tax. On that question, he held opinions very different from those entertained by the hon. Member for Middlesex, so much so, that he should feel it his duty to vote against the Motion this night proposed by the noble Marquess. He had, in the last Parliament, given a similar vote, and he now saw no reason to alter the course he had before pursued.
 826
 Mr. Robinson  said, it had long been his anxious wish to have all questions touching the taxation of the country referred to a Select Committee, in order that it might be ascertained in the only way likely to lead to a satisfactory result what taxes ought to be remitted, and what continued. The necessity for such a course would be rendered the more obvious by the Motion which the noble Marquess opposite intended to bring forward that night. The noble Marquess proposed calling on the Chancellor of the Exchequer to give up the Malt-tax, but he would put it to the House whether a man who stood pledged to a particular line of conduct could be expected to enter upon such a question with anything like impartiality? [The Marquess of  Chandos: 736
 Mr. Handley  in seconding the Motion, observed, that he was well aware to what degree, in times of political excitement like these, individuals might be exposed to the imputation of party motives for supporting a Resolution such as the present, but he disclaimed all party spirit or motives, his object being not to achieve a party
 748 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. 749 s. s. s. s. l. 750 s. s. d. s. 751 752 s. s. 753 l l. l 754 755 756
 Mr. Benett  said, the right hon. Baronet had made a very affecting appeal to the Irish and Scotch Members of that House, although not to the English. He said, the Scotch and Irish were not taxed equally with the English, and that if a property-tax were imposed upon them equal to that upon the English, their burthen would be much greater than it was at present. He was not about to complain of the present inequality of taxation between the Scotch and Irish and the English, but that was not an argument in any view of the case which could have any effect. He had a much higher opinion of the feelings of the Scotch than to suppose that that would be allowed to operate on their minds in the slightest degree. The right hon. Baronet had, however, in another part of his speech, made a somewhat affecting appeal to the English landholders, but which could not be expected to have much weight with them; because, from the time at which that Act passed, which was called by the name of the right hon. Baronet, the English landowners had been so depressed in their circumstances, that they could not fear a Property-tax. The property was not in them, but in the hands of money-jobbers. It was in the hands of mortgagees, and of those who had been heretofore tax-eaters, not tax-payers. So that a Property-tax, or a threat of a Property-tax, could not very seriously frighten the English landowners. The question of Property-tax, in his opinion, was one of greater moment than that of the Malt-tax. It was one which the House must very shortly come to. The only equitable mode of proceeding would be, to apportion taxation according to the property individuals possessed. The object of all taxation in this country, was the protection of property; but instead of making persons pay equitably for that protection, the present system was to make men pay according to consumption, and not according to the proportion of property possessed. The question, then, of a Property-tax, would have to come shortly before the House, as it had already forced itself on
 783 l. s. s. s. d. s. d. s. s. d. 784 785
 Mr. Hume:  The right. hon. Baronet had better speak out than convey his opinions by insinuations. But he should prefer a Government adopting such measures as those to which the right hon. Baronet had alluded, to that one which would rob the public. The right hon. Baronet could not forget his own proposition to cut down the old coinage from a shilling to a sixpence, and let the loss fall on those who held those coins, which would fall on a large portion of the poor of the country. No man was more closely connected with a plan for the breach of public faith than the right hon. Baronet, and he (Mr. Hume) would repeat that assertion, let the right hon. Baronet take it as he pleased. The right hon. Baronet cried out against crimination, and yet he began by it himself. His own late col-
 819 ["They are not his."] 820 s. l. l. l. l. l., l., l. 821 l. l. l., l. l., l. James Graham: l. 822 l. l., l., l. l., l. 823 l. l. l. 824
 Mr. Hume  hoped that he should receive a similar indulgence from the House, as he had also been personally alluded to by the right hon. Baronet. He had characterised men to those who knew no better. He meant to say that the right hon. Baronet had described to many who did not know them, the opinions of certain Members of that House, and had said that if such men should form part of the Administration, the Government of the country would be brought into discredit.
 Mr. Pease  was most anxious to state that he had enough of conscience not to consent to give away between 4,000,000 l. l. 825
 Mr. Hesketh Fleetwood  said, that one great principle connected with the Question, had been almost wholly lost sight of in the course of the discussion—he meant with reference to the time at which the noble Marquess had brought forward his Motion. The right hon. Baronet, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had said, that it was unreasonable and improper to move for the Repeal of a tax prior to the introduction of the Budget. He believed that what he (Mr. Fleetwood) was about to state, would be acknowledged to be a pure constitutional doctrine, when he said, that it was as much the duty of the Members of that House, being Representatives of the people, to declare to his Majesty's Ministers what individual taxes they wished to have repealed, as it was the duty of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to bring forward his estimates of the current expenses of the year. If, as had been stated by the right hon. the President of
 827
 Mr. Hall Dare  hoped he might be permitted for a short time to express his concurrence in the observations that fell from the hon. Member for Kent. It certainly was one of the worst features of the present time to see an alienation of the working classes taking place from persons who filled that rank of society held by the Members of that House, though he did not think that alienation was to be attributed to the cause assigned by the hon. Member. He believed, in his conscience, that that alienation was caused by the writings and speeches made by interested and ambitious persons both in that House and out of it. The right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Cambridge, and the hon. Member for Halifax, asked Gentlemen how they could reconcile themselves to vote now in opposition to pledges given on the hustings. He begged leave, for one, to say, that the question did not apply to him, for when he was asked on the hustings to pledge himself to the Repeal of the Malt-tax, or to any other question, he always said, that he disdained making any pledge. With respect to his agricultural constituency he certainly did give, in various speeches made to them, not pledges, but reasons why he should vote for a Repeal of the Malt-tax. He was now bound to state the reasons why he came to a different conclusion. When he entered the House that day no one more sincerely believed than he did that the agricultural interests, and those of the lower classes generally, would be benefitted by a Repeal of the Malt-tax; but the confidence he had in that opinion was much shaken by the arguments of his right hon. Friend (Sir Robert Peel). He confessed, that even if that confidence had not been so shaken, he would vote as he now intended to do, for it was his opinion, that if the result of the vote of that night—if the Motion of the noble Marquess should be successful, and power pass from the hands of the right hon. Baronet and his colleagues into the hands of those Gentlemen designated by the hon. Member for Derby on a former night, the effect would be to strike at the root of public confidence, and, so far from improving the agricultural interests, it would place power
 832 l.
 Mr. Robert Gordon  said, that the right hon. Baronet had denounced the practice of crimination and recrimination, and yet a great part of his speech was made up of personal attacks on one individual or another. He confessed that he did not expect that any attack on him would have proceeded from a Gentleman with whom he had been in habits of intimacy, and the less so when his present state of health was known. Referring to the speech to which the right hon. Baronet had alluded, he might follow the example of others and say, that not having much time to spare, he was not in the habit of reading newspapers, and therefore could not hold himself responsible for what they might publish; but he would not avail himself of that plea. He had no objection to have anything that he said to his constituents made the subject of comment. It was well known that he had been uniformly opposed to the Malt-tax. When asked by his constituents his reason for the course he had pursued with respect to that tax, and the same question, he had no doubt, would be asked by other constituencies, he had told his constituents that he had pressed the Repeal of the Malt-tax on the Government until they were sick of his repeated applications. He had pointed out the necessity of doing something for the landed interest, and showed that the election for Dorsetshire would be lost if nothing was done and that election was lost because nothing was done in that respect. It had been stated in the debate, that hon. Members, not being Chancellors of the Exchequer, were not bound to bring forth specific plans for replacing any tax that
 818
 Mr. Spring Rice  felt that, connected as he had been with the noble Lord who lately presided over the finances of the country, and with the arguments and discussions which had taken place on this subject, from time to time, he should be acting inconsistently with any claims he had on the respect and confidence of any
 795 Baring: Baring 796 797 798 799 l. s. d.; l. s. d. l. s. d. 800 [Loud cries of "Oh, oh!" and laughter.] 801 802 803
 Mr. Cobbett  rose to address the House. The hon. Gentleman urged the House not to be deterred, by the intimation that the right hon. Gentleman would resign were he left in a minority on this question, from giving their support to the Motion of the noble Lord. [The hon. Member in attempting to proceed, found that his voice was so hoarse that he could not make the persons sitting on the opposite side of the Table hear, and he therefore sat down.]
 Mr. Cobbett  expressed surprise at the sentiments which the hon. Member for Worcester had delivered, and said, that he entertained a firm conviction that the 400 Members of that House who were pledged to effect a Repeal of the Malt-tax would fulfil their engagements to their constituents. He denied that it was the duty of a party proposing the repeal or remission of a tax to provide a substitute for it. That was the business of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and he thought it would be somewhat absurd to contend that the Chancellor of the Exchequer was not bound to give up a tax unless he were provided with other means for supplying any deficiency which his doing so might occasion in the revenue. Now his great objection to the Malt-tax did not arise from the magnitude of the sum—the four millions and a half it produced to the revenue—but rather from the mischiefs which it occasioned. No tax that could be invented would, he believed, produce half so much mischief, and hence it was that he wished to see it repealed.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  said, he felt himself too much in the situation of the hon. Member for Oldham (Mr. Cobbett), labouring as he did under considerable indisposition, to take any prominent part in the present discussion; but, after the personal appeal which had been made to him, he should be wanting in duty to himself, in his respect to that House and to the country at large, if he did not avail himself of that opportunity to make one or two observations. He heartily concurred in the expressions which had fallen from the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Charles Wood), in the conclusion of his speech, and the hope which he entertained in reference to the anticipated majority on the present occasion. Notwithstanding the observations made by the hon. Gentleman in reference to the course which he (Sir Edward Knatchbull) should feel himself called on to pursue, he thought it was perfectly consistent with his previous conduct, and quite compatible with the duty he owed to his constituents. The hon. Gentleman asked whether, having, on a former occasion, voted in favour of the Repeal of the Malt-tax, he was now prepared to reverse that course? Before having made any charge the hon. Gentleman would have done well to have first ascertained what was the course which he (Sir Edward Knatchbull) really had pursued. In 1833, he had undoubtedly advocated the Repeal of the Malt-duty. He had been then, and he still was of opinion, that the remission of that tax would confer considerable benefit on the agricultural interests of the country. But the House would not fail to recollect that at that period, when he supported that view of
 794 [Cries of "No, no!"]. l., l.,
 Sir James Graham:  What I said was, that if an Administration were formed consisting of the hon. Member for Middlesex, and others whom I named, the country must expect a Property-tax and a Repeal of the Corn-laws.
 Sir James Graham  said, that after the unanswered and unanswerable speech they had heard in the earlier part of that evening, he certainly should not, if he had not been called for, have troubled the House with a single word in defence of the vote which he purposed to give. The proposition under their consideration materially affected the revenue of the country; and being in the situation of one who was not connected with the present Government, who had not been connected with the last Government, who had no vote upon the subject to explain, and no speech to retract, he might, perhaps, be permitted, in obedience to the wish of the House, to state as shortly and succinctly as he could, the reasons upon which he justified his vote on the present occasion. With reference to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Lincolnshire, who, amidst other remarks of the like tendency, had observed that the time for professions had gone by, and that it would now be certainly seen who were, and who were not, the friends of the landed interest, he should, he doubted not, be pardoned for saying
 812 813 s. s. s. s. s. s. 814 s. s., [Mr. Hume rose, supposing the right hon. Baronet had ended.] l., 815 816 [Here Mr. Hume, who seemed to think that the right hon. Baronet had concluded his speech, rose, and addressed the Chair.] 817
 Sir John Campbell  observed, that whether he should vote or not for the repeal of the malt-tax was not the subject which he had now to consider. His objection in the present instance was not so much to the magnitude of the tax as to the manner in which it was imposed.
 Sir John Campbell  said, that there was some hardship in the manner in which this additional duty was imposed.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  said, that he would detain the House but a few moments, and he thought it but justice that hon. Members should be heard on a Question of such importance. He wished to state briefly why he should vote against the proposition of the noble Marquis. He was as anxious as any one in that House to give the agriculturists the relief they required, but he thought that the Motion of the noble Marquess was unseasonable, and that justice demanded, that they should wait until the right hon. Baronet placed his budget before Parliament, and made them acquainted with the measures of relief he had it in his power to give consistent with his duty as First Minister of the Crown, and consistent with the interests of the country generally.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  regretted that the discussion had been pro-
 845 now 846
 Mr. O'Connell  insisted that the distinction drawn with regard to the compensation was both arbitrary and capricious. The Directors' reading of the words, "now, or heretofore," in the Act was curious indeed. This wording they, by a monstrous construction, made to signify "since the 1st of August, 1828." There was no reason whatsoever for this arbitrary selection.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought
 849
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would be sorry to have it understood that he had laid down ally fixed rule in a matter with respect to which he had never heard a word before that moment. He was indeed sorry to be forced to come to a decision on a question of so much importance without previous notice. It did, however, appear to him that it would establish a most improper precedent if the House should consent to the present Motion. Suppose the noble Lord should fail to establish his claim, would it be proper in the mean time to deprive him of his seat, and the county of Nottingham of its right to his services? He apprehended that, until the writ of summons should be issued, the noble Lord would be entitled to exercise the
 850
 Mr. Wynn  said, he divided in the minority on the question of issuing the writ for the election of a new Member in Lord Dursley's case. The House of Lords afterwards rejected his claim to the Peerage and he (Mr. Wynn) had no doubt that the issuing of the writ for the Election of a Member having been founded on false representations was altogether void. The House would do well to avoid the possibility of such an occurrence happening again.
 Dr. Lushington  concurred in the objections which had been taken to the Motion. To issue a new writ on the allegation that a Member was a Peer, before he had been so declared by the Lords, would be prejudging the judgment of that assembly. No inconvenience could possibly arise from delaying the issue of the writ, whilst a contrary course might be attended with great danger. Under these circumstances there was no safety except in adhering rigidly to the rule laid down by the chair.
 Lord John Russell  regretted, that the Question had been brought before the House without notice. He would vote against the Motion, on the ground that there was no imperious necessity for issuing the writ at the present moment. If circumstances should arise to alter the state of the case, he should feel himself at liberty to change his opinion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  put it to the hon. Member for Liverpool, (Mr. Ewart), whether it would not be better to reserve to the House on each evening a discretionary power of determining as to the importance of attending to the business which they had before them, rather than fetter themselves by a general resolution like that now proposed. There were some matters, for instance, which he (Sir R. Peel) thought should not be brought on later than ten o'clock. On the other hand, and especially towards the close of the Session, there were very necessary forms to be gone through, upon which there could be no doubt of the sentiments of the House; such as the third readings
 851
 Colonel Sibthorpe  agreed with the hon. Member opposite that business should be well done; but when the time of the House was wasted by long and often idle discussion, they should not get over important Bills on the ground that the time for their consideration was too late.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had always understood the rule to be, that the paper having been gone through, no new business could be brought forward, and that those names in the printed paper should have priority over other business; and he thought it would be better to adhere to this rule. No Motion of form ought to interfere. He would ask, whether it was not the general sense of the House that the Speaker should proceed with the notices and Orders of the Day in the succession in which they stood, it being settled that no person should interpose any Motion?
 Lord John Russell  feared that if they were to lay down a general rule of the kind proposed it would not conduce to the convenience of the House, nor to the furtherance of public business. Nevertheless, he thought some course might be adopted to remedy the evil which un-
 852
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the Motions represented as matters of form were often of a substantive nature. Bills relating to capital felonies were often considered as matters of form after midnight. In 1792, they went to business at three o'clock, and it was then considered a late hour. The present House was inconvenient. In most places it was too hot, and when not too hot it was too cold, and it was highly prejudicial to the health of Members to sit up these to a late hour. One great corrective of the misdeeds of the Members was public opinion, which was influenced by the fourth estate, as it was called, the press. At a late hour the reporters were worn out, morning was approaching, there was a necessity for an early publication, there might not be space for a full report, and the consequence was that the late Debates were seldom given.
 The Attorney General  did not mean to oppose the principle of the Bill; it was only his intention, at present, to make a few suggestions for the future consideration of his hon. and learned Friend opposite, and those should be with respect rather to some of the details of the Bill. For instance, he thought it important that an infant under twenty-one years of age should be allowed under this Bill to exercise any power he had under the law as it at present stood in making a testamentary disposition. He saw no occasion whatever, for confining, as it was now proposed, the power of making a will to an individual only who had arrived at the age of twenty-one. By the proposal now before the House, a woman who had married and become a widow before she had attained the age of twenty-one—not an unfrequent occurrence, would be rendered incapable of making a will in favour of her children if she died before twenty-one. Another provision in the Bill was, that a Court of Equity should have jurisdiction to make void any Bill of personality upon certain grounds. He thought it extremely objectionable that this power should be altogether taken from the Ecclesiastical Court, and wished that that Court and the Court of Chancery should have a concurrent jurisdiction. In his opinion, the Ecclesiastical Court should retain the power it at present had. As to another provision, he did not understand at all why a female's will should be revoked by her marriage, and a man's not, as was proposed.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that even if the decision upon the question of a breach of the rule should be against the hon. and learned Gentleman, he hoped the House would indulge the hon. and learned Gentleman with permission to proceed with the observations he was making upon a Bill of such vital importance as that under discussion.
 The Attorney General  could assure the House, that in his judgment, every detail to which he had adverted embodied within itself a distinct principle. He would then suggest the propriety of making marriage alone a revocation of a will, and so with respect to a birth, for it never could be the intention of any one that children begotten after the making of a will should have been intended to be disinherited. He was not prepared to go along with his hon. and learned Friend in diminishing the principle of security required by the law as it now stood affecting land; he would rather add one to the three witnesses of the will now required than take one from those three, as the Bill proposed. Every one that was added to a number of persons in a fraudulent combination rendered the combination the more difficult and the more easy of exposure. He was not aware, that many practical inconveniences had arisen from requiring three witnesses to a will giving lands, but much mischief might be the result of having only two. Indeed, he thought that a will written throughout by a party himself, and signed and dated by him at the foot, would be much safer to go upon
 856
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that as to one of Lord Tenterden's acts in particular, it had been drawn with such a degree of looseness, that it was left uncertain when the provisions in it were to commence, and whether they were to take effect upon bygone transactions. He objected to decision-law,—he objected to judge-making law; he considered that the law should be made by the Legislature, legislators availing themselves in the making of it of law decisions, just as philosophers availed themselves of experiments to bring principles into operation. He entertained a different notion of this Bill now to what
 857 s. in extremis,
 Dr. Lushington  held it to be the duty of Parliament, in making any alteration in the state of the law, clearly and distinctly to lay down what should be its future intention. If a single loophole was left for application to the discretion of the Judges, the inevitable consequence must be discussion that would involve the meaning of the whole of the enactment, and bring the minds of the country into doubt. His great anxiety was to impress the House with a sense of the high importance there was in providing that whatever might be the form to be prescribed for a will, there should be but one form for all. Be the number of witnesses required what it might, it was vitally essential that it should be the same with respect to all sorts of property given by wills. With respect to the observation that had fallen from the learned Gentleman opposite (the Attorney General), that if the number of witnesses required to a will were dimi-
 858
 Mr. Pryme  was glad, that the lawyers had no objection to improvement. He thought that personal should have the same safeguards as real property, and to effect this it was necessary to give increased security to personal property, by an uniform execution of wills of all kinds.
 Mr. O'Connell  would not oppose the introduction of the present Bill if it were the same as that of last Session, as that measure contained no one clause which gave the rich a preference over the poor. He,
 865
 Sir George Clerk  stated, that his right. hon. Friend, the Member for Montgomeryshire (Mr. C. Wynn), had paid great attention to the subject, and was of opinion that a Bill might be brought in without any further examination of evidence. Not having been in the last Parliament himself, he had not seen the Report of the Committee; but from the statement given of it by the hon. Member for Middlesex, he was ready to say, that he entirely agreed in the principles of its recommendations, and, with some modifications, they might be advantageously carried into effect. But, however practicable it might be to take the votes of any given number of electors in cities and boroughs in one day, that time would hardly be sufficient for counties, as all the county elections took place within a week, and persons who possessed the franchise in different counties ought to have an opportunity of exercising it. With regard to Scotland, he would suggest that the number of polling-booths should be more numerous than appeared to be contemplated by the hon. Member for Middlesex; for, in the Highland districts, a circuit of twenty-five or thirty miles might not yield two hundred voters.
 Mr. Murray  said that, no doubt, such would be the case in one or two counties of Scotland, as Ross, for instance; but in the remainder there would be no such difficulty. He could not agree with the hon. Baronet the Member for Edinburghshire, that a good general rule should be rejected because some persons had vot s in twelve different counties. He should, however, consider every suggestion that might be made upon the subject, before moving for leave to bring in a Bill for Scotland, similar to that now proposed for England by the hon. Member for Middlesex.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the advantage of an increased number of polling places would be great in preventing riot, intimidation, and expense, and in facilitating the identification of voters. He would suggest, however, that it would not be enough to have polling places in towns where quarter sessions were held; there ought to be a polling place in every town or district in which road sessions were held. He wished also, that the mode and right of registration, and the time for polling in England and Ireland, should be assimilated. He complained of the infrequency of the registration in Ireland, and said that the time for polling in towns was too long, while from the various impediments thrown in the way of voters by the administration of oaths and other devices, the time was too brief in counties. He was ready to lend his assistance in framing a Bill to extend to Ireland.
 Mr. Murray  said, it gave him most sincere pleasure to hear, that the learned Lord intended to introduce the same Bill which had been so keenly opposed to the Committee which sat last summer. He (Mr. Murray) had never objected to that opposition; for, however warmly it was conducted, it tended to a more rigid and minute examination of all the details of the Bill, than might otherwise have taken place. The Committee sat constantly for
 872
 Mr. Wallace  tendered his thanks, as well to the late Lord Advocate, for having originated this salutary measure, as to the present learned Lord for following his predecessor's wise course, in bringing forward the Bill again at so early a period, as to insure its passing this Session. He wished to know from the learned Lord, whether it was his intention to introduce any measure to amend the law respecting conveyancing in Scotland. There was no other country in Europe, except Hungary, where the barbarous system of feudal conveyance of property still remained.
 The Lord Advocate  said, it was his intention to refer the Bill, for which he now moved to a Committee up stairs, when the aid of the hon. Member, the late Lord Advocate, would be made available towards rendering it more perfect. As to conveyancing, he would say, that it had
 873
 Mr. O'Connell  concurred in the objects of the present Motion, and particularly in that portion which referred to the subject of intimidation. He thought it should be at once fully understood, whether or not this House considered that a tenant's vote was his landlord's property, and whether or not the franchise given to an individual for his benefit ought to become, as it were, a portion of his landlord's rent, and if it were not so, that the House would visit as delinquents, those who used other men's consciences for their own purposes. He trusted the investigation would be followed up, and the matter sifted to the bottom, because a protection should be thrown round those unfortunate tenants who were by intimidation ground down by those possessing authority over them. He had seen a man come up conscientiously to record his vote, when his landlord took an oath, that if he voted in a particular way he would not only refuse to renew the tenant's lease, of which only seven years had to run, but he (the landlord) would also secure the property, that after his death his son should not have the power of renewing the lease to that individual. The worst of the evil was, that the men who used this species of intimidation were the first when an appeal was made to public sentiment and public duty, when a voice was raised to appeal to public opinion, to calumniate those who took any means to bring public opinion to bear upon each individual case. He was glad that a Committee was to be appointed, but he thought eventually it would be found that the Ballot was the only remedy to check the evils which were now complained of.
 Mr. Forbes  said, that he implied from the last observation, something like an expression against the landlords of Scotland. Of that body, so far as he was acquainted with them, and from all he had seen, he must say, that they behaved well during the late contests. He however felt obliged to the hon. Baronet opposite for submitting this Motion to the consideration of the House.
 Mr. Rice Trevor  should not oppose the Bill if it did not trench upon the enjoyments of the poorer classes; otherwise he should oppose it as far as in him lay. He did not deny that a large portion of the community was in favour of some enactment for the better observance of the Sabbath, and that an anxious wish was expressed by all the religious part of the population of the country for the prevention of its desecration. He did not desire to interfere with the rational enjoyments of the working classes, as he had already said, but he thought some attention should be paid to the wishes of the religious portion of the community.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  mentioned a case of intimidation, in which the landlord seized the book immediately after it had passed from the lips of a tenant who voted contrary to his will, and swore by the contents of that book, to turn him out of his land the first opportunity. He stated another case, in which a landlord, who was a Member of that House, gave notice, that any tenant or dependant of his, who voted against his friend, should be instantly turned from the land. One of his dependants, however, greatly to his credit, said to him, "Sir, your conduct is so unconstitutional, so tyrannical, and so ungentlemanlike, that you shall never have my vote."
 Mr. Anthony Lefroy  hoped the Com-
 879
 Mr. Hawes  agreed fully with the hon. and learned Member for Edinburgh. He would not make any observations on the subject, but he would simply ask the hon. Member for Shaftesbury a plain question respecting the object of his measure. Was the Bill intended to put down Sunday trading solely, or was it intended to revive the whole of the odious Act of 29th Charles 2nd?
 Major Cumming Bruce  also begged to return his thanks to the hon. Member for Middlesex for bringing the subject for-
 870
 Mr. Cayley  supported the petition, and said, that if the petitioners were really entitled to compensation, they ought to receive it, especially if their services were long and meritorious.
 Mr. Grote  expressed his satisfaction at the present Motion. Though he entertained strong opinions upon the efficiency and necessity of the Ballot as a means of protection, yet he should go into the Committee with the fullest disposition to entertain any other means which the sagacity of other hon. Gentlemen might suggest, and should be ready to adopt any efficient remedy they might propose. He hoped, however, that Gentlemen who entertained preconceived opinions unfavourable to the Ballot would, if they found the remedies proposed to check these great and grievous evils inefficient, follow the example of the hon. and learned Member for Edinburgh, and get over any scruples and objections to the Ballot which they might have previously entertained.
 Mr. Robinson  would not disturb the awards of the Directors, except in cases where sufficient ground was given for so doing. He did not wish to trespass on the patience of the House. He had given notice of his intention to the late President of the Board of Control, and also to the hon. and learned Member for Kirkcudbright, who concurred with him in thinking that the cases were open for the consideration of Parliament.
 Mr. Robinson  rose to present a Petition from certain Maritime Officers of the East India Company, who were excluded from the compensation granted by the Act 3 and 4 of William IV., cap. 85. He begged to call the attention of the House to the Act passed last Session, which was commonly called the East India Act. In it there was introduced a clause enabling the East India Company to grant Compensations to Officers for the loss they sustained by the cessation of the trading privileges of the Company. The Act did not determine the precise rule by which compensation was to be granted, but it left it in the power of the East India Company to deal as they thought proper with their own servants in matters of compensation. But while Parliament gave to the East India Company the power of apportioning the compensation which was to be given to the individuals engaged in their service, it reserved to itself the right of revising, and, if necessary, reconsidering, any scale of remuneration which the Board of Directors might make, which he thought must be apparent to every one who read the seventh section of the East India Company's Act, passed in the last Session. After reciting the nature of this compensation, the Clause went on to say, "Provided always that no such compensation, superannuation, or allowance whatsoever shall be granted until two months after the particulars of such compensation, superannuation, or allowance shall have been laid before the two Houses of Parliament." Such was the language of the Act, and he would therefore ask every hon. Member who listened to him whether any scale the Directors, even with the sanction of the Board of Control, might think fit to make, could be considered as final and conclusive? If it were, what was the object in providing that it should be laid before Parliament, or could any
 840 841 842 843 l. l.
 Mr. George Young  said, that on this subject he did feel great diffidence of trusting to the discretion of the House. He would ask, whether it was decent that after midnight, a score of important Acts should be passed through different stages, as he, during his own experience had seen take place. It was this course of proceeding which brought discredit upon the Legislature, and created much mischief and confusion in the administration of the law. Much of the business of the House consisted in repairing the errors into which they had fallen in this way. As a man of business, he knew that when Gentlemen had unlimited time to do any business in, much of that time was occupied very unprofitably; and he was inclined to think that if the House of Commons were in some measure limited in their hours, they would get through more business than they did at present, and that some hon. Gentlemen, in consideration of the important business that was to be done, would occupy less time in long speeches and useless discussions.
 Mr. George F. Young  was glad the hon. Member for Shaftesbury had the moral courage to bring forward the Bill before the House after the contumelious manner in which the similar measure introduced by him to the last Parliament had been treated. He deprecated the insinuations conveyed in the observations of the hon. Member for Bridport, when comparing the present and past Parliament to the one which sat at the lamentable and ever-to-be-regretted period to which he alluded, 1640. It was not fair to mix up motives in that manner, nor was it fair for the hon. Member who spoke subsequently to attack the Bill on the assumption that it was the same as that of the last Session. If it contained nothing which was calculated to impose shackles and restrictions upon the enjoyments of the poor man, he (Mr. Young) should give it his hearty support; if, on the contrary, he should hold himself free to oppose it.
 Mr. Vernon  said, that with reference to what had just fallen from the right hon. Baronet, it appeared to him, that if a Member voluntarily vacated his seat, he could have nothing to complain of, even though he should fail to establish his title to a Peerage. The doctrine of the right hon. Baronet might, in practice, operate unjustly upon a constituency. The late Earl of Scarborough never would take his seat in the House of Lords, and, therefore, if he had been a Member of the House of Commons at the time he succeeded to the title, the county of Nottingham might practically have been without a Representative for many years. With respect to the Motion, he certainly would not press it, since the Speaker's opinion was against him.
 Mr. Vernon  rose to move that the Speaker should direct a new Writ to issue for the North Division of the County of Nottingham, in the room of Lord Lumley, now Earl of Scarborough. The circumstances under which he submitted the Motion to the House, were unusual, but by no means unprecedented, and he believed that, in the course he was about to pursue, he should follow strictly what had been the ordinary practice in similar cases. Lord Lumley, now Earl of Scarborough by descent, his father having recently died, had not yet received the writ of summons to take his seat in the House of Peers. In Hatsell, a conversation was recorded, which took place between Mr. Speaker Onslow and Lord Egmont,
 847 * * * * 848 Speaker,
 Sir H. Hardinge  was satisfied that in Ireland it was necessary to reduce the time of polling to two days. He should be happy, when he received the information for which he had written to Ireland, to afford the hon. and learned Member for Dublin every facility in his power to remedy any evil that required correction in the present mode of carrying on the Elections in that country. He considered it most important that there should be several polling places, for voters had in some cases nearly seventy miles to march before they arrived at the place of elec-
 871
 Mr. Warburton  did not mean to oppose the bringing in of the Bill, particularly as the hon. Member, who moved for its introduction, had been allowed not alone to bring it in, but to advance it almost to the final stage in the last Session of Parliament. But he should reserve to himself a right of opposing it in any stage he thought proper, if he saw that it was of such a nature as trenched upon the enjoyments of the poorer portion of the community. The conduct of several hon. Members at various periods during the last Parliament, in respect to Sunday legislation reminded him forcibly of occurrences exactly similar in the Parliament of 1640. If hon. Members, took the trouble of examining the journals of the House, they would find that their hon. Predecessors of that period had brought in several Bills to the same effect as some of those introduced then. For instance, one Member of that time brought in a Bill "to prevent walking in the fields on the Sabbath," and another a Bill "to prevent people regaling themselves in porches (of houses) on the Lord's day." He was sorry to be obliged to say, that many clauses in the Sabbath Observance Bill of the last Session were analogous to these, and very much to the same general effect. He trusted that the Bill of the hon. Member for Shaftesbury contained no clauses of that nature; and he hoped that strict attention would be paid to it in every stage, to prevent their introduction by any other hon. Member. He was not one of those who believed men could be made religious by Act of Parliament, and, therefore, he was opposed to any legislatorial interference whatever on the subject.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that he conceived it to be absolutely impracticable to limit the time in which the House would find it possible to get through the business of the Session. The business ought to be done, however, and they must have sufficient time to do it in, either by beginning at an earlier hour in the day, or by encroaching upon the hours of the night.
 The Speaker  said, that the rule was undoubtedly for the hon. and learned Gentleman to confine himself to the principle. The principle could only be, as had already been stated, known from the details, and according to one or two decisions of the House, it did not appear that the learned Attorney General was out of order.
 Mr. James Grattan  said, the Committee confined itself to three points; it recommended the abolition of the Catholic Oath, the delay and inconvenience of which had been experienced in many Elections in Ireland. The Committee also recommended that the certificate of the freeholder should be final, and that the number of polling-places, should be increased.
 Mr. Praed  admitted, that the question deserved serious attention, and that the petitioners were highly meritorious individuals. The hon. Member was mistaken if he supposed that the India Board had had any share in fixing or sanctioning the rule laid clown by the Directors of the
 844
 Mr. Hardy  said, that though he had given notice of his intention to move for leave to bring in a Bill on this subject; yet he rejoiced the onerous and irksome duty of providing a remedy for the evils so justly matter of complaint and reproach, had been taken upon himself by the hon. Baronet opposite, and the Committee which he sought to have appointed. He (Mr. Hardy) thought, however, that this Committee could not, even after a long investigation, come to any other conclusion than the Committee which had been appointed on his (Mr. Hardy's) Motion last Session, and to which the right hon. Gentleman now in the Chair had afforded his valuable assistance. With respect to treating, the Committee must not confine the criminality of that offence to a particular period after the issuing of the Writ, and between that period and the time of the Return, as was now the law, but must rather consi-
 876 animus
 Mr. Hardy  defended the Bill of the last Session of Parliament introduced by the hon. Member who moved the introduction of the present measure. That Bill was only intended to prevent unnecessary desecration of the Sabbath, not to interfere with the enjoyments of the working classes. In common with the hon. Member for Bridport he (Mr. Hardy) believed that men could not be made religious by Act of Parliament; but he believed also, that to make them so was not the object of the Bill, but to prevent scandal to morals and religion. A great deal of obloquy had been cast on that Bill, because it was alleged that it was levelled at the enjoyments of the poor, while it spared those of the rich; but such was not its intended effect. On the contrary, it was to protect the poor at the expense of the enjoyments of the rich that it was introduced to the Legislature. It was not to prevent young men in Birmingham, shut up in shops during the week, from riding in the green lanes on a Sunday;
 864
 Mr. Nicholl  said, he should oppose any clause in the Bill which would have the effect of restricting the rational enjoyments of the poorer classes of the community; but he admitted that a measure which would prevent the desecration of the Sabbath was necessary.
 Mr. Poulter  replied, that it referred exclusively to the suppression of Sunday trading.
 Mr. Poulter  said, he should detain the House as short a time as possible. A measure similar to that he now had the pleasure of introducing had been honoured by no less than twelve divisions, and hence a majority of that House had sanctioned a Bill of a like tendency on one occasion by a majority of five to one; and on another, by a majority of two to one, although ultimately lost, in consequence of a misconception that had been entertained with regard to it. He should be able to prove, however, when the proper time came, that the present Bill was only intended to restrain trade on the Sabbath, and correct some gross evasions of the law. He was sorry that the Bill had not fallen into the hands of other hon. Gentlemen more capable of doing justice to the subject; but, he believed, that upon examination, the House would agree with him, that in the present instance extremes had been avoided, and all parties might be furnished with good reasons for supporting it. There were among them who thought that legislation ought not to be extended to every part of our social and political lives, and that we could not have a specific legal remedy for every evil. But even they would find that there was no desire betrayed in the present measure to do anything but promote rational liberty. The moderation of its aim was sufficiently proved by the assistance that had been voluntarily afforded by Members of both Houses, who were previously hostile to its introduction, but, upon becoming acquainted with the moderation of its tone and the general mildness of his character, had foregone their hostility. The anxiety of the public on the subject was sufficiently displayed by the number of petitions that had been presented to this House, and from the number of societies now in existence which were instituted for the furtherance of the object he had now in view. No less than 1,065 petitions had been presented, containing in the whole 20,000 signatures. No fair and reasonable man would suppose that he had any other object in view than the good of the people, and not, as had been falsely asserted, their oppression. He would gladly, however, take the blame
 862
 Mr. Hume  begged to direct the attention of the right hon. Baronet (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) to the situation in which the house was placed. The Question was whether the House, in the discretionary power which the House had granted to the Board of Directors to make compensation to persons claiming for injury done to them by the Act of last Session, had reserved to itself a power to alter or rescind the regulations made by the Board? The Question was an important one, and he thought ought to be allowed to stand over until that day week, when the House would be better prepared to take it up.
 Mr. Hume  brought forward his Motion, "To
 866 867 868 869 [Cries of "Move!"].
 Mr. Hume  rose to order. There had been a discussion about the loss of time already. The hon. and learned Gentleman had avowed that it was not his intention to object to the principle of the Bill, and the course he was now adopting, of entering into the details of the measure, was only proper in the Committee.
 Mr. Hume  thought, the House ought to come to some conclusion on the subject; it was improper to do important business of such unseasonable hours as one and two o'clock in the morning. It frequently happened that Members, exhausted by the business of the day, were obliged to leave the House, and, in their absence, measures in which they were deeply interested, were carried. He admitted that every plan of arrangement was full of great difficulties, but any plan was better than the plan now acted on. He would rather meet at ten in the morning than continue after twelve at night. If the present system was persevered in there would be an accumulation of Bills which must be disposed of at a late hour, in a thin House.
 Mr. Hume  thought, the Motions and Orders should be regularly set down; that the Motions should come first, and the Orders follow.
 Mr. Jackson  thought a difference ought to be made, with respect to attestation, between real and personal property. It seldom happened that the heir-at-law attended the sick bed of the testator, therefore it was advisable that he should have protection; but, on the other hand, the testator was generally in his sickness surrounded by his kindred, which made an equal amount of protection as regarded personal property unnecessary. He was of opinion, that not less than three witnesses ought to be required to attest a will of real property. When parties confederated, though they might agree as to important particulars, it seldom happened that they did not disagree as to minor matters—they were rarely proof against a searching examination in a Court of Justice. He knew a case in which a female servant, who was one of the witnesses, had exactly confirmed the previous statement of the professional man in all that was material, but on examination, she declared the will to have been signed at midnight, whereas the professional man had said it was signed in the forenoon.
 Mr. Potter  complained that the hon. Member who moved for leave to introduce the measure before the House had departed from the usual wholesome custom of entering into an explanation of its nature and contents. In abstaining from all explanation the hon. Member pursued the same course as had been adopted by the hon. Member for Wigton (Sir A.
 863
 Mr. Sheil  said, that two instances of intimidation of a different kind had come under his observation during his contest for the county of Tipperary, in 1830. He had applied to a man of the name of Brian for his vote, but on learning that by doing so he would incur the displeasure of
 878
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  hoped the learned Lord was actuated by a steady determination to press the Bill forward, and to insure its passing into a law this Session. He perfectly agreed in the observation of the last speaker, that the system of Scotch conveyancing was as oppressive as in the most feudal country in Europe.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  wished the polling to be limited to one day instead of two; but, in other respects, he saw no necessity for any change in the system as respected Scotland. In the counties of Scotland the Electors were a most intelligent body, and in the burghs there were no corrupt freemen—that greatest curse in elections. In the counties there were no fictitious voters, and no temptations to make them.
 Mr. Cultar Fergusson  could not agree
 855
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that he could not express too strongly the obligations of the House to his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Edinburgh, not only for the Bill which was then before it, but for many others which he had brought in, and successfully carried through it. It was highly necessary to do away with the difficulties attending the construction of wills of testators of estates. As to their attestation, he was of opinion that every sanction which was given to wills by the signature of three witnesses would be amply supplied by two signatures. In Scotland two witnesses were considered sufficient for the validity of every will. If the hon. and learned Member for Huntingdon was not satisfied with two, he was sure that twenty would not be sufficient. As to the question of handwriting, in all the countries of Europe, the hand writing of a testator was sufficient to dispense with all notarial attestation, and the only objection which had been brought against
 859
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, he had seen most important questions brought on in that House after twelve o'clock at night, ay, after one and two o'clock in the morning. He had seen Bills going through their second readings on such occasions, especially Bills relating to Scotland. He did not think that such a general rule as that proposed by the hon. Member for Tynemouth would be practicable, but he questioned, whet her a regulation might not be adopted by which it should be laid down as a rule that the important stages of Bills should not be brought on after a certain hour.
 Mr. Robert Steuart,  as a Scotch Member, and having witnessed much of intimidation at the recent elections in that country, felt bound to give his support to the Motion. Unless some means were devised to check this evil, the Ballot would be the only resource to which the elective portion of the community could resort in order truly to express their opinions and sentiments. He trusted some plan would be effected by which the tenantry would be left to the free exercise of their votes, and he had no hesitation in saying, that if such protection had now existed, very different results would have been obtained in Scotland in some cases from those which the last fortnight of the elections there had produced.
 Mr. Robert Steuart  said, that in anything he had said, he did not mean to apply it to the hon. Member for the county of Stirling.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that nothing could be better than the Motion now before the House. A more important constitutional step had never been taken by the House than the appointment of a Select Committee under the care and superintendence of his hon. and learned Friend. This Committee went to establish a new and distinct principle; and all who had one common object in view must concur in the propriety of it, whether they were friends of the Ballot, like his hon. Friend the Member for the City of London, or whether they had, like him (Mr. Spring Rice), considerable doubts on that subject,—whether they supported the Ballot in order to prevent intimidation, as his hon. Friend did, or whether they agreed with him (Mr. Spring Rice) in wishing to see intimidation prevented by some other means, because they doubted that the Ballot would be effectual.
 Mr. Spring Rice  expressed his gratitude to the hon. Member for Middlesex for the pains he had taken in bringing this subject before the House. He entirely approved of the suggestions of the Committee, and hoped that the hon. Member would not allow trifling difficulties to deter him from endeavouring to carry into effect the principal of those suggestions, namely, the reduction of the time of polling, at least in cities and boroughs, to one day. With regard to the authority which should have the power of managing the polling-places, he should beg to suggest the Privy Council as the most fit.
 Mr. Ewart  said, if they stopped at a certain hour they must begin earlier. When the Debates were carried on by day they were shorter and more effective, and more business was done. He had no objection, if the House pleased, to change the hour from eleven to twelve.
 Sir Andrew Agnew  denied, that anything which had been urged in the observations on this measure applied to the Bill introduced by him in the last Session of Parliament. He could assure the House that his Bill was more objected to by the rich than by the poor; and, moreover, that if he put it to the opinion of the country he would have a majority of the latter in its favour.
 Sir Edward Codrington  most cordially seconded the proposition of his hon. colleague. From what he had lately witnessed, he was convinced not only that such an inquiry was necessary, but that from it the greatest possible good would arise.
 Sir Francis Burdett  concurred in what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. It was strange that, while they talked of a legislative union between the countries, they legislated as if there were three kingdoms instead of one. The general opinion seemed to be in favour of one day's polling instead of two. He thought the object would be obtained if they polled in parishes. The whole of the election expenses, would thus be greatly diminished.
 Sir George Grey  rose to move for the Committee, of which he had given notice, to inquire into the most effectual method to put a stop to Bribery at Elections. It was not, he observed, necessary for him at that hour, to go into details as to the object of his Motion. It was well known, that there still existed in many boroughs a disposition to bribery, and it was necessary for the character of the House, that they should take an early opportunity of passing a Bill to prevent. corrupt practices as much as possible. The hon. Baronet, after adverting to the history of the Bills which had been introduced on this subject in the last four years, and to their not having been successful, observed, that he could not hope for the success of any measure introduced on the subject, until it had been submitted to the consideration of those who had attended to the question. He regretted, that in the last three or four years, they had made no progress in any measure for the prevention of bribery; but he was glad to have heard in the previous discussion a suggestion thrown out and receive the almost general concurrence of the House, of a measure which would go far to strike at the root of the evil—he meant the limiting the polling at elections to one day instead of two. That, he thought, would be going far to correct the evil. The other branch of election matters, to which the Motion was directed, was the subject of intimidation, with respect to which there were no statutes applying a punishment save and except in cases where riots should actually ensue; but, for intimidation during and previous to the poll, the House possessed no power to interfere, or punish the offenders. Now, it would hardly be denied when the occurrence of numerous cases of intimidation of various kinds was not to be questioned, after the experience of the last and previous Sessions, that it was the duty of the House to provide some remedy which, if it might not succeed in preventing the mischiefs which arose,
 874 875
 Sir John Campbell,  as a Scotch Member, hailed the introduction of this measure as one which was much wanted, and most earnestly desired in Scotland, and was glad, that there was now a prospect of its passing into a law.
 Sir John Campbell  hoped that the hon. Baronet and his supporters would be satisfied with the present measure. He believed the motives of the hon. Baronet in respect to the Bill of the last Session to be most pure, but he was bound to add, that nothing could be more mischievous than that Bill was calculated to prove had it been permitted a trial. It interfered with all classes of the community, high and low, rich and poor. It afforded enjoyment to none; and it was, moreover, inquisitorial in its nature, and capable of being made the instrument of great tyranny and oppression to all. With respect to the Bill before the House, he (Sir J. Campbell) saw nothing to object to in it. It only affirmed an Act of Parliament already in existence, and capable of being used without any such affirmation. It did not seek out private violations of the Sabbath, it only prevented public desecration. Therefore it should have his support.
 Sir John Campbell  said, that the subject had been so ably treated by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, and his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for the Tower Hamlets, that there was but little left for him to remark upon. One great principle of the Bill was, that all property should be devisable. To that no objection had been made. He was sorry that his hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney-General, should oppose the uniformity proposed for the execution of wills. He had, however, the satisfaction to know, that all the Members of the Ecclesiastical Commission, and the present Lord Chancellor, were favourable to that principle. The distinction between real and personal property, had led to the most pernicious consequences. It often happened, that the same will was partially void, and partially valid—void as to the realty, and valid as to the personalty devised. As to the execution of wills, he was afraid that if the Legislature were to say that a man's handwriting should be a sufficient evidence of the validity of a will, no man would take professional advice, and he would be his own lawyer, by which the intentions of the testator would be often defeated; for where he intended to give a fee simple, he would give an estate for life, and where he intended to give a life estate, he would give a fee simple or an estate tail, which might be easily converted into a fee simple. Notwithstanding what had fallen from the hon Member for Falmouth, he hoped for his support to the Bill, and, as no objections were made to its general principle, he
 861
 Sir John Campbell  said, that he had seen so much of intimidation practised, that great as was his reluctance to the adoption of the Ballot, he was afraid, that unless some means were devised to make intimidation inefficient for its object, the Ballot would become actually necessary. If so, he should ever consider it a necessary evil. The franchise he should always hope to see exercised boldly in the face of the whole community, and every Englishman, Irishman, and Scotchman, ought to have the means of so exercising it without any apprehensions whatever. If a punishment could be secured for parties guilty of such practices, the Committee would confer a lasting benefit upon the country. Should they, however, fail in their means of prevention, then to the Ballot he should be obliged to yield.
 Sir John Campbell  moved the second reading of the Execution of Wills Bill.
 Mr. Rolfe  observed, that Lord Mansfield had said, that the Judges were some-
 860
 Mr. Clay  would instance a case of severe grievance under the present regulation. A very deserving and highly-meritorious officer, who had served for nineteen years in the maritime service of the Company, happened to be for the last six years out of employment; and, in consequence of the late regulation, by the mere accident of losing one year in the period so arbitrarily provided, he, together with a large family, had been deprived of all allowance, notwithstanding his long previous servitude.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  wished to know from the hon. Member for Middlesex whether it was intended to take into consideration the powers of the returning officers. He thought that some change should be made in those powers.
 Mr. Alderman Wood moved the second reading of the Smith field market improvement Bill.
 Mr. Williams wished to ask the probable amount of the expense of the proposed market, and in what manner it was to be raised. [Mr. Alderman  Wood. l., l. 882 l. l., l. l., l. l., l. l. l. s. d., l., l. l., 883 l.
 Mr. Alderman Wood regretted that the hon. Member for Coventry had thought it necessary to amuse the House with a sort of statement such as he had been in the constant habit of making in the Common Council of London, and to which appropriate sphere it had better have been confined. As to the expense of Farringdon-market, the fact was, that juries had given such extravagant verdicts of compensation, that it was impossible to confine the undertaking within the ordinary calculation. Another great improvement had, however, been effected, with a saving of, perhaps, 200,000 l. l. 884 l. d. d. s. l. l., l. d.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer :Is this, then, the Motion of which you gave me solemn notice more than a week since? I say, is this the Motion which you thought it incumbent on you to give notice of a week before-hand? I asked the hon. Gentleman last night if he intended to bring forward his proposition for limiting the Supplies, pursuant to notice, and the hon. Gentleman now says he gave me a conditional answer. That conditional answer was, that the Motion would be certainly brought on, either by himself or some other hon. Member. I now ask the hon. Gentleman, whether the hon. Member, who was to have supplied his place, has also abandoned his intention; or whether any more decisive vote or want of confidence in his Majesty's Ministers is to be moved to-morrow.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer :I asked the hon. Gentleman what course he intended to pursue with respect to his threatened decisive motion of want of confidence in Ministers, with a view to displacing them, and I really do not think that I am trespassing unreasonably on the hon. Gentleman or his friends when I again venture to ask a question as to a course of proceeding which may be of
 886 Hume:
 Sir George Clerk objected to that princi-
 887 R. Steuart—" d. d.
 The Lord-Advocate thought that such a measure as the hon. Member proposed would be extremely beneficial, if properly carried into effect; and he was, therefore, willing to give it every assistance in his power. But he apprehended that the hon. Member would find some difficulties, not only in the details of his measure, but arising out of the nature of the subject itself, in a country where marriage might be performed without any religious ceremony, and it was difficult to know in some cases whether individuals were married or not.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer was almost sorry that the hon. Gentleman had not substituted for some parts of his address the substance of the communication he had received from his agent, who, it appeared, was a very grave, sage, and steady character; and, he had no doubt, that what he said would have displayed a little more moderation than some of the
 890
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer entertained the strongest objection to such a course. The only objection to produce the papers at once was, that such a course might interfere with the ends of justice; but at a future period they could be moved for. The orders for returns made by the House of Commons should be imperative, and not left to the discretion of subordinate agents. He put it, therefore, to the good sense of the hon. Gentleman whether he would not obtain all that be required by moving for the returns at a future period.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer said,
 894
 Dr. Lushington thought, that on one point at least originating out of the present discussion there could be no difference of opinion. He meant, that if the assertions of the noble Lord (Lord Mandeville) were correct, Lord Gosford was not a fit person to remain in the important situation of Lord-lieutenant of the county of Armagh. The assertions of the noble Lord must be either true or false—if false, the noble Lord had much, indeed to answer for in having made them in that House; if true, Lord Gosford could not escape the marked censure of that House. The truth or falsehood of the charges it became now the object to ascertain, and he, therefore, rose to ask if the papers moved for were calculated to effect that object, and if not, whether it could be collected by any other documents in the power of Parliament to command? He maintained that it was the duty of the noble Lord, as an upright and honest Magistrate, to represent the conduct of the noble Earl, whom he accused, to the Government, with a view to its receiving a strict investigation. Honourably, he could not avoid doing so; but, at all events, the House was now bound to interfere. As an English Member, unacquainted with the state of parties in Ireland, he felt quite unable to ascertain the truth of the representations made on either side of the House night after night; and, feeling convinced, that if Ireland was to be pacified they must act on the principle of doing equal justice to all parties, he did desire to have all documents calculated to throw light on the question in dispute. He had the honour of being acquainted with the noble Earl whose name had been brought forward, but, notwithstanding that,
 895 896
 Mr. Smith O'Brien said, it seemed that the north of Ireland was in a state of civil war, and the Secretary of State for the Home Department gave encouragement to the factious feelings which prevailed, by receiving, and forwarding gracious answers to, addresses of an illegal character. For what other purposes were those addresses received, if it were not to keep up the feelings of faction, and the excitement that existed? He had the pleasure of listening, the other night, to the professions made by the right hon. Gentleman on the Treasury Bench, but he had not the pleasure of hearing him declare that such things were not to occur again. When the Orange party saw the allies, by which
 902
 Mr. O'Connell had no desire to prolong the debate, but having interrupted the hon. and gallant Colonel in his allusion to him, he would state the opinion with which he had accompanied his declaration, that the Catholics were arming in the north. He had distinctly declared, that the greatest mischief consequent upon the possession of arms, by Orangemen, was, that Catholics who ought not to have arms, would procure them, at all hazards. For his own part, he wished neither party to have them.
 Mr. Williams observed that there appeared to be grounds for suspecting that the appointment of Pilots, was but too often influenced by political considerations. It appeared that in one case, out of a crew of fifty-three Pilots, forty-eight were freemen of Dover; and that in another, out of a crew of forty-two, twenty-nine were freemen.
 Colonel Evans said, his opinion was,
 903
 Colonel Evans said, there was no analogy between the offices; but the point to which he intended to call attention was, that as respected the maritime interests, the office of Lord Warden of the Cinque Ports was an anomaly. He did not see why there should be a Lord Warden to a particular part of the Channel. The consequence of the present arrangement, was frequently great danger to human life. The port of Rye had been omitted by Act of Parliament from the same jurisdiction as the other ports; and the Lord Warden, therefore, not thinking proper to appoint pilots for Rye, there had been no pilots there for a series of years. The pilots of that part of the Channel ought to be placed under the control of the Trinity Board.
 Mr. O'Connell could not complain of the conduct of the military, but their conduct reflected no credit on the Magistracy, but on the gentlemen of the army, and the good feeling of the soldiers themselves. In the letter alluded to by the hon, and gallant Officer, he did not, as was supposed, express so much satisfaction at the conduct of the military in itself, as he did a preference to it when compared with that of the police. He had written to the Commander of the Forces with regard to the practice of the soldiery firing on the people, and had received an answer, he would admit, which was perfectly satisfactory. He willingly gave credit to the army, and he believed that gentlemen in command had received orders to adopt every precaution in cases of Magistrates giving unnecessary orders. It had been stated that in 1831, murders had taken place, and that in 1834, there were none—[Colonel  Perceval:
 Colonel Bruen, as representative of a large county (Carlow), could not let the opportunity pass of adding his testimony to that already borne to the efficiency and good conduct of the military, and, also, to the particular necessity which existed almost always in Ireland for their presence at elections, but more especially at the last election in that kingdom.
 Colonel Evans said, that he had been in Carlow at the last election for that borough, and on that occasion he had seen a display of military, horse and foot, which would have led him to suppose the town was in danger of destruction. Yet be did not perceive the least appearance of excitement among the people, or even anything like a crowd, to warrant such a display of armed force. In England elections partook of the nature of a solemn civil ceremony. In Ireland, on the contrary, they appeared to partake of a military character. In England, the military never appeared at elections without the most absolute necessity existed; in Ireland they were called out and paraded in all places before any necessity was even thought of. With respect to the question at issue—the conduct of the Magistracy —he thought the right hon. Secretary for Ireland had gone beyond his duty in declaring his belief in their innocence. It was like prejudging the question, and could not but have its effect in prejudicing the course of justice. He wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman (Sir Henry Hardinge) spoke from his own knowledge, or merely from the information supplied by the local Magistrates?
 Dr. Lushington said, that there was a portion of the Report of the Commissioners which, if not adopted in the Bill of the hon. and learned Gentleman, or made the subject of a distinct measure, would defeat all that the Bill before the House proposed to do. It was that part of the Report which contained the recommendation of
 912 l. l. l. l. 913 pro salute animœ. 914
 Mr. Pryme would not oppose the introduction of the Bill, but he was still not disposed to assent to all its intended provisions. It was by no means shown that the remedy which was to be provided against the inconveniences of the present system consisted in the abolition of all the Ecclesiastical Courts, and the establishment of a single tribunal in London. Such a plan might be very convenient for the adjudication of large testamentary causes—in other words, for the interests of the rich; but in cases involving property to smaller amounts, the effect of it would be different. In respect to that part of the subject which related to divorce, the existing law certainly required alteration; there was, indeed, at present one law for the rich, and another for the poor. But that would be still more the case if the jurisdiction over cases of this kind were confined to one central court. He contended, therefore, that it would tend to reform the several courts in the different provinces. These objections of his applied to the principle of the present measure, and could not, he feared, be removed by any alteration in its details.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer said, I trust, that this House will receive the present measure as the first practical fulfilment of the pledges given in his Majesty's Speech from the Throne, that his Majesty's Ministers were desirous of introducing into the administration of the law the most substantial Reforms, and of redressing every grievance, of which just complaint can be made. I do hope, that it was some kind of prognostication of the nature of those Reforms, which convinced the hon. Member for Middlesex, that it was not necessary to hold over his Majesty's Ministers the menace of limited Supplies. The hon. Member will see in the strong and uniform testimony borne to the efficacy of this Reform, a guarantee of the intention of his Majesty's Ministers, with respect to Reforms in general. This Reform in the Ecclesiastical Courts throughout the kingdom, is founded on the Report of a Commission of Inquiry, established upon the advice given by his Grace the Duke of Wellington, to the Crown. Nothing can be further from my intention, than to claim for his Majesty's Ministers the exclusive merit of this Reform. Few things are more honourable to party connexions in this country, than the manifestation on the part of public men of a
 918 919 a mensa et thoro. 920
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer, in
 921 Hume 922
 Mr. O'Connell observed, that the right hon. Baronet should not count his own chickens before they were hatched; for he would probably find the chicken of his hon. friend, the Member for Middlesex, a good fighting-cock yet; but the proper time to crow was when the victory was gained. To come back, in sober sadness, to the question before the House; any one would have supposed that the discussion of such a subject might have been kept free from all party feelings. There had been no indication of such feelings on his side of the House; in his opinion there ought not to have been any on the other side of the House. It was quite evident, that but for the dissolution of the late Ministry, they would have brought forward this identical measure. The assumption of any merit, therefore, on the part of the present Government was an empty and unfounded boast. They stepped into other men's shoes, and then strutted proudly about as if the shoes actually belonged to them. He was glad to hear that so many eminent men, so many Bishops and Judges concurred in forwarding this Bill. But what must their predecessors have been who allowed all these abuses, all these sinecure duties to go on without remonstrance or interference. He willingly admitted that the Bill, as far as it went, would effect a salutary Reform. It would lop off some of the branches of corruption, but it would still leave the trunk standing; and he must say, that he thought his hon. and learned Friends on both sides of the House were wrong in not going further. Why have any Ecclesiastical Courts at all? This wisest of all possible countries had three descriptions of administration of justice—the Common Law, the Equitable, and the Ecclesiastical. The simplicity of legal proceedings would, in his opinion, be best consulted by a simplicity of courts. Why should it be necessary, first to prove a will in an Ecclesiastical Court, and then to carry its provisions into effect in a Court of Law, or a Court of Equity? Would it not be much better, instead of these three courts, to have only one? With reference to divorce cases, he had no hesitation in saying, that in his opinion marriages ought to be indissoluble. But if allowed to be
 923
 Dr. Lushington said, that the reason why the subject was not brought forward in 1833, was, that a Committee, consisting of Sir Christopher Robinson and others, had sat upon the Admiralty Courts, and incidentally the subject of probates was gone into. That Committee sat till the end of the year. Next came the preparation of the Bill, which, he could assure the right hon. Baronet, was not so easy a matter as he appeared to think; and one gentleman who had undertaken the task gave it up in despair. It was, however, ready by the commencement of the last Session, and Lord Althorp pressed him (Dr. Lushington) to bring it forward; but he had said, that, although it would sound very well to lay the Bill upon the Table, yet that with a measure for the commutation of English tithes, another for the commutation of Irish tithes, besides the Church-rate Bill, it would be impossible to get through with it in a proper manner. If, therefore, blame existed any where from the Bill not having been brought forward last year, it rested with him.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer said, that the name of the late First Lord of the Admiralty, the Member for Cumberland, had not been mentioned; but it was right the public should know, that, of all the non-lawyers who devoted their time and attention to this subject, the right hon. Gentleman stood pre-eminent.
 Mr. Ruthven hoped that nothing would be said or done to occasion acrimonious debates upon this subject. The object sought for by the return might be easily obtained in another way without trouble or expense. The hon. Member did not seem himself to understand the nature of his Motion, or the effect it might produce on the feelings of the Irish people.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer said, that all the credit he desired to claim for the present Government was, that they had thrown no obstacle in the way of this
 926
 Mr. Andrew Johnson rose to move for returns respecting National Education (Ireland), in pursuance of an order of the 13th May, 1834; and in addition, a list of all such books as are distributed or used under the direction of the Board, with the full titles
 927
 Mr. Scarlett observed, with reference to what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, that he had always understood it as one of the most happy circumstances in the administration of justice in this country, that the local was united with the central administration. He was of opinion that the ministerial parts of the administration of the Ecclesiastical Law, the granting of probates and the registering of wills, should be left in the country; but he was by no means prepared to say that the judicial administration of that law might not be advantageously transferred to London.
 Mr. Pringle thought, that difficulties would attend the application of the principle of compulsory registration, and hoped that the Bill would differ in its enactments from that of last year.
 Mr. O'Dwyer regretted to hear so confident a statement from the gallant Officer, with respect to the use of the military. He had himself known instances or the most gross and unwarrantable interference on the part of the military. He would read an extract of a letter he had received from the Rev. Mr. Webb, of Borris, as evidence of the system which had been pursued:—"We were obliged to close our chapel, these two last Sundays. This extraordinary measure we were obliged to resort to, that murder might not be committed. The magistrate brought a company of soldiers on each Sunday, and had them placed at the chapel to protect some voters. If we had permitted the people to assemble, there is no doubt the moment they had appeared, the military, armed as they were, would have found a pretext to fire on the people; for the people, it was more than probable, on their appearance, would have been greatly excited, and made an attack." The writer also requested the hon. Member to inquire of the Chief Secretary for Ireland, by what authority this military force had been stationed there.
 Mr. Littleton said, he understood that the Armagh assizes would commence tomorrow, and, therefore, the trial would in all probability be over before the papers could be laid upon the Table of the House. There was no case better calculated to satisfy Members of that House of the baneful effects resulting from party divisions in Ireland than that to which the Motion referred.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor said, that at the election alluded to, he was rather surprised, when about to address the people, to find himself surrounded by drawn swords and fixed bayonets, but he managed to keep the soldiers in good temper, by talking of the impolicy of flogging in the army, of the evils of unmerited pensions, and the propriety of appropriating such pensions to the relief of the widow and the orphan.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor said, he would not have uttered a word on the present subject were it not that the hon. Baronet opposite said there was some palliation for the conduct of the Protestants. He hoped the party feelings of the noble Lord and of the Orangemen would be confined to the court house, and not uttered in that House. When the noble Lord talked about his anxiety for the Protestant party
 893 "Words are but wind, While actions speak the mind."
 Mr. Mullins moved for copies of any correspondence between the Lord-Lieutenant, the Deputy-Lieutenants, and Magistrates of the several counties of Ireland, and the Irish Government, previously to, and during the late elections, with reference to the distribution and employment of the military force, and to apprehended obstructions of the freedom of election. He said, it certainly was his intention to press for their production; but, he understood it was wished by Govern-
 904
 Mr. Finch said, that the returns had been granted in another place, therefore there could be no additional expense or trouble to have them laid on the Table of that House. With respect to the increase in the amount of the grant of the present year, it did not originate with the present Ministry, but it was to cover an increased expense incurred under the late Administration. Though he was prepared to give credit to the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Rice) and to his party, he begged to say that the present Ministry could not be charged with inconsistency on account of the course they meant to pursue. If the present system worked well let it be perpetuated; but he hoped that an end would be put to the practice of disseminating sinister reports.
 Mr. Robinson said, that although the papers moved for, related to the Cinque Ports, yet the question extended itself to other places. He was happy that Government had taken up the subject. He believed there were no complaints, generally speaking, respecting pilotage from places where competition was open, but that the complaints came from places where the appointments were made in secret, which was a system highly prejudicial to their efficiency, and to the maritime interests.
 Mr. Barron said, he objected to the making of any such distinction, because it was contrary to the principle upon which the system of National Education introduced by the late Government had been founded. That principle was, to draw no distinction between the children on the ground of religion. In the part of Ireland with which he was most nearly connected the greatest benefits had arisen from acting upon this principle. The parents of children of different religious persuasions were thus brought together, as well as their children, and mutual friendship, forbearance, and kindness was the result. In his parish the system was found to work so well that out of the fifteen heads of Protestant families who resided there fourteen of them made application for a grant towards the erection of another school. He would be very glad to see such a spirit extending further north, and children brought up in feelings of true Christian charity and benevolence one towards the other.
 Mr. Henry Grattan begged to add his meed of praise to that which had already been bestowed on the military. Their conduct, contrasted with that of the police, was decidedly in their favour. Advantage was always derived to the peace of the country from employing them in preference to the constabulary, in consequence of the latter being more immediately under the control of, and responsible to, a partial Magistracy.
 Mr. Henry Grattan considered that the order ought to be pressed. They were bound to do thus much to show the people of Ireland they were disposed to do them justice. He had received from his agent a man of grave, sage, and steady character, a detail of the outrages committed by the Orangemen in Clanes, with the details of which he would not trouble the House. He declared that the people would not endure the armed Orange banditti tolerated by Government, and if that party were not put down, it was to be feared that their passions would get the better of their reason, and the Catholic gentry of Ireland would arm their tenants to fight it out with the Orangemen, who now conceived the present Government owed its elevation to them.
 Mr. Handley felt it due to his constituents and to the farmers and graziers of the country, generally, to oppose the measure. Though the hon. Member was the patron and the successful advocate of the privileges of the Corporation of London he did not expect he would have had the hardihood to move the second reading of a Bill of this nature, not on account of its own intrinsic merits, but in reference to another Bill—the Islington Market Bill. In the body of the Bill moved by the worthy Alderman there was a clause, which went to impose on the graziers of the kingdom who sent stock to London additional tolls, for no other purpose but the aggrandizement of the property of the Corporation of London, and the perpetuation of an admitted nuisance. He believed that since 1800, the Corporation had been before Parliament with bills for the improvement of this market. In the year 1809 a Committee was appointed on the subject, and that Committee recommended the removal of the market to the nearest and most convenient situation, where a space of not less than twelve acres could be appropriated to it. Among the names affixed to that Report he found the respectable, influential, but not consistent name, of Matthew Wood. The worthy Alderman had talked of the opinion of farmers and graziers being in favour of retaining the market in its present site. Now, he supposed that Mr. Coke of Norfolk, would be acknowledged to be an authority on such a point. Mr. Coke had given his opinion against the proposition for the enlargement of the market, on the ground that it would only per-
 881
 Sir Henry Hardinge said, that if the right hon. Gentleman had listened attentively to what he had previously said, he would have found that he made no objection to the production of the papers, further than that orders had been given to prosecute the parties implicated. And how were they to know that the case might not be postponed, or that some other impediment might not have come in the way? But there was another reason why he could not produce those papers—namely, that they had been carried by the learned counsel to the Assizes, and he therefore could not produce them.
 Sir Henry Hardinge could not grant the papers to which the Motion referred, because, as the Government had determined to prosecute the parties concerned in the transaction, the Crown Solicitor had taken the documents with him to the Armagh assizes. Under these circumstances, the hon. Member would perceive that he could not consent to the Motion, the more
 889
 Sir Henry Hardinge replied, that this question did not affect the present Government any more than the Rathcormac case. When he went to Dublin, he wrote a circular letter to all the magistrates, directing that no one should act as a magistrate where he was himself interested, and that no clergyman should act as a magistrate in the collection of his own tithe.
 Sir Henry Hardinge would content himself with saying, that he had himself taken the pains to impress on the Magistrates of Ireland, and particularly clergymen, the impropriety of being present at any collection of tithe in which they had an interest.
 Sir Henry Hardinge said, that the
 891
 Sir Henry Hardinge was sure that the hon. and learned Gentleman and the House must be aware, that the military could only act at the requisition of the magistracy in Ireland, as well as in England. The troops had strict orders not to interfere, except at the requisition of the magistrates; and, unless they did then interfere, it would be impossible for any Government to be carried on.
 Sir Henry Hardinge had seen a letter written by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin to Sir Hussey Vivian, in which the hon. and learned Member praised the conduct of the military at Youghal, as having been admirable. As proof, too, of the good effects of employing that force, he begged to call the attention of the House to this fact, that in 1832, troops were not employed, and in Carlow fourteen men were actually killed; in 1834, they were employed, and there was only one man killed, and that was in Meath. He thought, therefore, he was quite right in saying, that their employment was per-
 906
 Sir Henry Hardinge thought it very advisable for hon. Gentlemen to avoid discussion, when moving for returns of papers. He had endeavoured to do so, but was provoked into reply by statements that were made on the opposite side of the House. He had heard of outrages, such as the hon. Gentleman alluded to at Borris,
 905
 Sir Henry Hardinge had no objection to the returns moved for, but he would remind the hon. Members for Ireland, that an interval of two days, was not sufficient between a notice of Motion and the Motion itself, when the subject concerned related to transactions, the documents connected with which must, of necessity, be in Government offices in Ireland. On the present occasion, however, he had no objection to produce the Papers, and when they were produced, he took that opportunity of informing the House, he should move that all the Reports relating to matters occurring previously to, and at the elections, should be referred to the Committee on bribery and intimidation. With regard to the employment of the military, the Papers, when produced, would prove they had never been employed, but on grounds perfectly justifiable.
 Sir H. Hardinge considered that the gallant officer, in objecting to the office of Lord Warden, because it was not filled by a naval officer, might as well say that the office of First Lord of the Admiralty, ought to be filled by a naval officer.
 Sir H. Hardinge rose, but
 Sir Henry Hardinge most cordially acquiesced in the justice and propriety of that decision. During the course of the evening various attacks had been made on the Irish Government, on the one hand for being too Orange, and on the other for being too Catholic; his great object, however, had been, and always would be, to act with the strictest impartiality; and although he did not enter into details for the purpose of vindicating the course which had been pursued, it being most improper to anticipate a debate on papers which were to be produced, yet he could not avoid stating, that the conduct of the military had, on all occasions, been most exemplary, and in consequence of the protection afforded by them to the people, not a single life was lost at the last election, while at the one preceding not fewer than fourteen were sacrificed.
 Mr. Henry Maxwell said, without the return for which his hon. Friend had moved it would be quite impossible to
 928
 Mr. Herbert Curteis, as an English Member of Parliament, could not help rising to express his disgust that an Irish clergyman should be found acting in the character of a Magistrate during the collection of his own tithe; and he thought that the Government ought to issue an order to prevent the repetition of a like occurrence. He fortunately belonged to a county in which clergymen were considered to have a higher occupation than that of a Magistrate. But, at all events, there could exist no difference of opinion on this point—that clergymen should not be allowed to act as Magistrates in their own cases.
 The Speaker interposed, and said, that, he could not help expressing it as his opinion, that very great inconvenience would arise if discussions were entered into by hon. Members in anticipation of the production of documents which were
 908
 Dr. Bowring had opportunities in other countries of witnessing the working of measures similar to that proposed, and did not think there would be any difficulty in carrying it into operation. By the systems adopted on the Continent they could trace an individual from his birth to his death. He hoped, in any plan which might be adopted, that the rights vested in individuals would not be interfered with, and that their concurrence in the measure might be acquired.
 Dr. Nicholl was convinced, that the
 916
 Mr. John O'Connell objected to the interference of the Magistrates. In the county which he had the honour of representing for two Parliaments, the Magistrates were all of Orange particular caste of politics; they were all of Orange principles. There was not one of them who had a vote but who had voted, both in 1832 and 1834, against the popular candidate. He could bear testimony to the advantage derived from the presence of the military at elections in Ireland, at the same time he felt bound on all occasions to object to their introduction as unconstitutional. With respect to what had been stated regarding the loss of life at the Dungarvon election, he should beg the House to bear in mind that it was not through the people it had
 907
 Mr. Roebuck thought the House should act upon the suggestion of the hon. Member for Meath, and order the papers, leaving them to be produced when convenient.
 Mr. Hume hoped that his hon. Friend, the Member for Haddington, would not allow the doubts that had been thrown out to have any weight with him. The measure was important in a national point of view; let the hon. Member proceed with it, and when he had brought in his Bill, let him subject it to a Committee up stairs, where all the doubts and difficulties now suggested might be easily dispelled.
 Mr. Hume :I assure the right hon. Baronet that if it rested with me, I would bring on the Motion without any delay; and that, at all events, it will be brought forward on the very first fit and proper moment that occurs.
 Mr. Hume, I answer, that as far as I am concerned, it will not be brought forward to-morrow. I beg to remind the House, however, that on a former evening, when I expressed my opinion that the votes on the election of Speaker and on the Address evinced that the House had no confidence in the present Government, the right hon. Baronet did not appear to consider them in that light. I considered that granting the Supplies for only three months would be tantamount to a vote of no confidence in Ministers; but I was reminded by some hon. Friends, that the right hon. Baronet might turn round on us and say, "This is no vote of want of confidence in the Administration;" and on that ground, lest a limitation of the Supplies should not be taken as a decisive indication of the opinion of the House, I have consented to alter the course which I had intended to adopt. I have done so, seeing the necessity of proposing some Motion which shall come directly to the point, and contain words that cannot be misunderstood. I have only to add, that as far as I know, no other person will tomorrow bring forward the Motion of which I give notice for limiting the Supplies.
 Mr. Hume, the right hon. Baronet opposite put a question to me yesterday, relative to the Motion of which I gave notice, to limit to three months the votes in Committee of Supply, and I gave him a conditional answer to his inquiry whether it was intended to bring on the Motion to-morrow. I am now able to state to the right hon. Baronet, that having consulted with those upon this side of the House who I thought would support that Motion, I regret to find that they do not concur with me in considering the question sufficiently decisive of our want of confidence in the present Administration, and I have therefore been induced, with regret, to postpone the Motion of which I gave notice respecting the Supplies, but I do so with a view to proposing a subsequent Motion, tending to show decisively that the House has no confidence in his Majesty's Ministers,
 Mr. Hume had not intended to trouble the House on this Question, but the right hon. Baronet's personal allusion to him, rendered it necessary that he should say a few words. The right hon. Baronet had asked him, whether the introduction of this Bill, was one of the reasons which had induced him (Mr. Hume) to alter the course which he had originally intended to pursue, with respect to the Supplies? His answer was, that in changing that intention, the measure under consideration, never, for a moment, entered into his contemplation. It would seem that the right hon. Baronet assumed great merit for the introduction of this Bill, and that he wished it to be considered as a guarantee of the intentions of his Majesty's present Government, on the subject of Reform. The fact was, that the right hon. Gentleman had crept into the nest of the late Administration, and was then hatching the eggs which his predecessors had laid; and now, forsooth, he was taking great credit for the incubation.
 Mr. Hume had not intended to complain of the learned Attorney-General, but of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who had arrayed himself in borrowed plumage, from which he wished to pluck a few feathers. Nothing ever gave him greater pleasure than to expose those who laid claim to merits not their own; and as the right hon. Baronet's speech certainly did seem to him to lay claim to the merit of others, he hoped he would not be offended at the candour with which he had told him so, and taken him down a peg.
 Mr. Dobbin said, he was on the hustings, from which he should doubtless have been dragged by the Orange party, and his life perhaps sacrificed, but for the protection the police afforded him.
 Mr. Dobbin moved for a copy of the proceedings of an investigation held at Armagh, of the transactions which took place in the neighbourhood of Keady, between the police and the country people, on collecting an arrear of tithe due to the rev. James Blacker, &c., which Motion was agreed to. The hon. Member also moved for a copy of the proceedings had at an investigation held at Armagh, on the transactions which took place in that town and neighbourhood on the 15th of January last, and the following week, during which several houses in that town were wrecked, and fourteen Catholic houses buried in the neighbourhood, by a body of Orangemen, together with the several papers connected therewith.
 Mr. Dobbin wished to state an instance of 2,000 Orangemen having marched, during the last election, into Armagh, with colours flying and decorated with the Orange emblems. They did so much mischief, that two days were occupied in assessing the damage, which was estimated at 1,400 l.,
 Mr. Dobbin moved for a copy of the proceedings had at an investigation held at Armagh of the transactions which took place at Keady in the county of Armagh between the Magistrates, the police, and the Orangemen, on the 5th of November last, with all the documents connected therewith.
 Colonel Jones Parry expressed his entire concurrence in the applause which had been bestowed by so many hon. Gentlemen on either side of the House upon the ad-
 924
 Mr. Cutler Fergusson bore testimony to the zeal of the right reverend Prelates
 917
 Mr. Robert Steuart rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to establish a uniform system of Registration of Births, Marriages, and Deaths in Scotland. The defects of the English system of registration were generally admitted, yet that system was perfection itself, compared with the practice in Scotland. There existed in that country a registration of baptisms, but not of births—of bans, but not of marriages, and there was no registration of deaths. In Edinburgh, in thirteen parishes, of which the population was 75,000, and where, according to the ordinary calculation, the births must have amounted to 1,800, only 400 were registered. The Bill which he proposed would be similar to that of last year, and would proceed on the principle of compulsory registration. As to the details of the measure, however, he was not bigoted, but would be ready to adopt any proposition calculated to effect a real Amendment in the plan.
 Mr. R. Steuart had stated, that he did not desire to stand by the details of the Bill of last year in every instance, if improvements could be pointed out; but he certainly thought, that unless the principle of compulsory registration were upheld, the measure would be wholly inefficient, particularly as to marriages which in Scotland were celebrated with so little ceremony.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe :The worthy Alderman had stated that the site of the new market was a swamp. All he would say in reply to the observation was, that its site was many feet higher than that of Smithfield.
 Mr. Spring Rice said, he saw no objection to the return. He should most sincerely rejoice if the system of education, proposed with the best intentions, should prove successful. He was anxious that the fullest information as to the working of the system should be communicated, and was glad that the attention of the Member for St. Andrew's had been called to the subject. He had no doubt the system would upon inquiry recommend itself, as it had already in some instances, to its former antagonists. He did not wish to see religious distinctions drawn upon this or upon any other occasion, but as they had similar returns before there could be no objection to them now. As there was a separation between the children in religious instruction it would be easy to make out a return of the Catholic and Protestant children. He should be better pleased if the schools were not situated within churches or chapels, or near to either, but on some neutral ground. The mere location ought to present no difficulty. It would be better to abstain from discussion till such time as they had full information. The result of inquiry would show whether or not the tendency of the plan was to throw the whole education fund into the hands of one party. The subject had been at one time converted into an arena for the exhibition of party animosity, but he trusted that time had gone by. No exhibition upon any theatre would be near so interesting to him as to see all parties co—operating and going forward together with the good work.
 Mr. Finn complained of the encouragement given to Orangemen, and said that the people did not place confidence in the Administration of justice in that country.
 Colonel Verner was not out of the town on the day in question, and he denied that the Orange party appeared in the town decorated as had been described.
 Colonel Verner, as one of the representatives for the county Armagh, in some degree identified with the occurrences which took place in that county, and having been personally alluded to by the hon. Member who brought forward the Motion now before the House, trusted he should be permitted to make a few observations in reply to what had fallen from that hon.
 898 899 900 901 O'Connell:
 Sir Thomas Troubridge moved for a return of all appointments made, during the last ten years, by or under the control of the Lord Warden of the Cinque Ports; specifying the particular duties attached to each, and the respective salaries, fees, and other emoluments thereto attached; and from what funds such emoluments are derived.
 Mr. Elphinstone rose to put a question to the right hon. Secretary for Ireland. It had been stated that a clergyman of the Church of England had placed himself at the head of a body of soldiers, and that death had occurred in consequence of orders which that clergyman himself gave. He wished to know, why that reverend gentleman had not been struck off the commission of the peace?
 The Attorney-General moved for leave to bring in the other Bill, of which he had given notice. Its object was to improve the maintenance of the Discipline of the Church of England. The inconvenience of the Ecclesiastical Courts continuing to exercise their present jurisdiction had been clearly pointed out, and the case of Dr. Coote had been cited as a striking example of delay, expense, and inefficacy. For the purpose of procuring an effectual administration of justice, it was proposed that a Bishop should preside in each Court, but that he should always be assisted by a legal assessor. There should be a due investigation of each complaint, which should be followed by a speedy execution of any sentence which the Court might think fit to pronounce. He thought it unnecessary to go into further details upon this subject. He had already stated to the House that the Report upon which the Bill was founded proceeded from a Commission, issued in January, 1830, which was renewed upon the demise of the Crown, in July of the same year. That Commission continued to sit, and it made its Report in February, 1832. He neither blamed the Government nor any Member of the Commission for not immediately bringing forward the measures that had been since founded upon the Report; but it was the fact, that the whole of the Sessions of 1832, 1833, and 1834, passed away without one measure being produced founded upon the last Report. It was not of so much importance from what side of the House any measure proceeded, as it was of importance that it should be well considered and speedily brought forward. He was anxious to put the House in possession of the facts relative to the origin
 925
 Sir John Campbell was sure that his hon. and learned Friend would not claim any praise in this matter, or in anything else which did not belong to him. His hon. and learned Friend had stated that the Bill had been prepared, and was ready, under the late Administration. That Bill was ready, and might have been introduced in the last Session; but it would be in the recollection of many hon. Members, that last Session he was taunted by the right hon. Baronet for having brought in his Bill for the abolition of imprisonment for debt at a time when the House had so many other important matters before it. If, then, he had brought forward the measure which had been prepared on this subject, he should have heard still stronger objections against lading the Table with business which there was no prospect of carrying through. If the late Government and the late Parliament had not been dissolved, and if Parliament had been allowed to meet at the usual time, early in February, it was his intention to have taken the earliest opportunity which the Session afforded.
 Sir John Campbell rose to express his entire concurrence in the views which had been taken of the subject by his Majesty's Attorney-General, and by his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for the Tower Hamlets. The moment the Report of the Commission had been presented, he had read it with the utmost satisfaction. The public were deeply indebted to the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets, and very great credit was due to the right Reverend Prelates, the Archbishops of Canterbury and York, and the Bishops of London and Durham, and the other Members of the right Reverend Bench, who had concurred under the Commission in recommending the Reform of all the abuses which had so disgraced the law of England, and who, for this object, had voluntarily consented to part with very valuable patronage. The criminal jurisdiction of the Ecclesiastical Courts ought long ago to have been abolished. Their proceedings  pro salute animœ, 915 a mensa et thoro, et a vinculo matrimonii.
 The Attorney-General, in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to Improve the Administration of Justice in Ecclesiastical Courts, said, that he did not propose occupying the attention of the House at any very great length in introducing the Bill which he proposed to submit to their consideration; but as this was one of the subjects alluded to in his Majesty's most gracious Speech from the Throne, he thought it would be unbecoming in him if he did not state, as shortly as he could, the general object and scope of the Bill which he meant to offer for their adoption. The leading object of it was to consolidate some 300 or 400 courts which were dispersed all over the country, and which were incompetent to perform those functions of justice which had been assigned to them, and concentrate the jurisdiction in Ecclesiastical matters in one court, to sit either in London or wherever his Majesty should be pleased to appoint. It was also intended by the Measure to invest the new Ecclesiastical
 909 910 911
 Sir John Campbell warmly approved of the principle of the Bill, and did not see the reason why the State should not pay for the registries of the poor. The poor were interested in those registries, and he had in his own experience known cases where it would have been of great advantage to the poor man to be able to apply to a registry. It frequently happened that the relatives of poor men who died abroad were not able distinctly to trace their relationship, and property thus left was wasted in litigation. It would be equally advantageous to Church of England men, in the case of property which might be left to them by Dissenters, and he hoped to see similar Bills brought in for England and Ireland.
 Sir Robert Bateson concurred in many of the observations that had been made by his right hon. Friend. in one part of his speech, however, he could not see whether he was speaking in irony or in seriousness. He agreed with his right hon. Friend that they ought to lay aside all
 929
 Sir Robert Bateson was not surprised that English Members should complain of the disgraceful and disgusting language with which the House was night, after night, polluted whenever Irish subjects were brought on the  tapis. [Cries of "Hear, hear!" from the Opposition.] 897 par excellence,"
 Lord Mandeville was anxious to vindicate the Armagh Magistrates from the charge of favouring the Orangemen.—There was no foundation for the accusation. The investigation was about a brawl at a public-house. The hon. Member was quite wrong when he assumed that the outrage was commenced by the Orangemen. He (Lord Mandeville) attended the investigation, and he could assure the House that there was no evidence whatever that the outrage was perpetrated by Orangemen; on the contrary, there was distinct evidence that the rioters were not Orangemen. The history of these feuds was this:—At races held before this outrage, a party of Catholics had surprised and attacked a body of Orangemen who were not prepared for, and did not expect, any hostility from their opponents. Another race was held in another part of the county, soon after, and the Protestants came prepared for their defence. There the Catholics again mustered strong, and having provoked the Protestants there ensued a second fight, in which the Catholics were worsted. Then came the races of Armagh. The Lord-Lieutenant. got intimation that a riot was meditated, and issued an order for the suppression of the races. After this the Catholics, animated by a strong feeling of animosity towards the Protestants, absolutely went about marking each obnoxious Protestant for vengeance. One Protestant and his daughter, on going to church, were waylaid and beaten to such an excess that their lives were despaired of. The houses of other Protestants were subsequently attacked and absolutely wrecked. Then the Protestants took fire, and naturally.— This was the origin of the disturbances now complained of. There were as many as six wounded Orangemen the victims of Catholic outrage. The consequence was, that the Protestants turned out and burned seven, not fourteen, houses of the Catholics. After that 400 Catholics, all armed, turned out and attacked the Protestants indiscriminately. The Protestants, to the number of 300, turned out next,
 892
 Lord Mandeville denied having used the words which had been attributed to him by the hon. Member, (Mr. F. O'Connor.)
 Lord John Russell : I wish merely to address a very
 937
 Lord Stanley  said that, from the answer which his noble Friend the Under Secretary of State had given to the hon. Member for Middlesex, that no such appointment as that which was the subject of the hon. and learned Member for Tipperary's Motion had actually taken place, he concluded that upon the technical point the Motion must fall to the ground. He did trust, however, and that the more especially in consequence of the answer given by his noble Friend, that the effect of this discussion, as far as it had gone, and of the opinions of the people of England, which were well known on the subject, might, yet, even at the last hour, prevent the completion of an appointment which he was bound to say was not creditable to the Government, or acceptable to the people of England. He looked not to the Question in a pecuniary point of view. He had never felt the tone of a discussion so lowered as when, after the feeling and eloquent speech of his right hon. Friend, the Member for Kirkcudbright, whose eloquence in favor of the gallant but unfortunate Poles, he had frequently admired, he heard the different ground taken by the hon. Member for Middlesex. His objections to the appointment had been so eloquently expressed by his right hon. Friend, that there remained little for him to add. He had been a Member of the Administration which, for prudential reasons, had felt it to be a necessary duty on their part—and he would say that they never had a more painful duty to perform—to resist the more active interference on the part of this country in behalf of the Poles, which his right hon. Friend wished. But if that Administration had considered it their duty to withhold their active sup-
 953
 Lord John Russell : With reference to what has just fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, I beg to say that I had reason to believe it was the intention of the Commissioners to make a first Report at an earlier date, than their general one. I have been told, likewise, by one of the Commissioners, that he believed there has not been the slightest intention of delay on the part of Government, but that several of the Commissioners have been unable to prosecute their inquiries, in consequence of the funds necessary for their furtherance, not having been supplied from the Treasury. In saying this, I wish again to express my conviction, that if there have been any delay, it has not originated from any intentional obstruction interposed by Government. I really wish to ascertain the sense of the House upon this question; perhaps I had better wait until Monday, to declare what day I shall fix for making the Motion for a call of the House, which it is my intention to submit. I have only to say further at present, that I intend to move, as an Amendment on the Order of the Day (whenever I bring forward the Motion), that the House resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House on the state of the Irish Church.
 Mr. Ord  said, that the complaint of the hon. Member for Shrewsbury, as to the imputations thrown upon the noble Marquess, did not apply to the speech of his hon. Friend, the Member for Kirkcudbright, for his remarks were tempered with mercy and forbearance. He rose to express his surprise that, on a question of this importance, involving the consideration of the first act of the Government, by which they made manifest to Europe what they might expect from their Administration—that on a question of this importance the right hon. Baronet had not addressed the House, to answer, not for the possible appointment, but for the effects which had already been produced on the mind of Europe by the mere announcement of such an appointment. The noble Lord (Lord Stanley) had expressed his belief that that appointment was foreign to the inclinations of the right hon. Baronet; but he could not believe that it was so, as it depended upon the nomination of the chief adviser of the Crown. It was of a piece with the whole of the conduct of the Ministers; it tallied with the exoteric and esoteric doctrines which the country was left to collect from their actions. It was in unison with their behaviour to the Orangemen of Ireland. By his appointment they had, certainly, effected a great saving in the expenses of diplomatic correspondence; not even the hon. Member for Middlesex could have hit upon a more economical mode of communicating to foreign courts what they had to expect from the present Administration. The hon. Member said, "withhold the salary from the noble Marquess;" he (Mr. Ord), however, said, "withhold the man."
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : I was certainly not aware that to the other charges to which I am liable could with any degree of justice be added that of an unwillingness to take a fair share in the discussions of this House; and I confess it was with no small degree of surprise I heard the hon. Member who spoke last but one in this debate attribute it to me. While, however, I quite admit the right of that hon. Member—or any other who may coincide with him in thinking I am called upon to defend my conduct with reference to the appointment in question—to comment upon my silence, I must claim from him in return the right of postponing that defence until such time as may appear to
 958 959 [Cries of "Hear, hear!" from the Opposition.] 960 ["No, no!"] ["No, No!"] [Renewed cries of "No, no!"] ["Hear, hear!"] [Cries of "Hear, hear!" from the Opposition benches.] [Laughter.] 961 Sheil Mirror of Parliament.] Mirror of Parliament, 962 l
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : I don't exactly know how the fact may be, and therefore, cannot deny the hon. Member's statement. The hon. Member may be right, but still I may say he is not so uniformly accurate in his statements, that I would wish to take it on his representation alone. But be that as it may is it exceeding the salary usually allotted to the Ambassador to the Court of Russia? Is it more than the salary allowed to Sir Stratford Canning? Is it not, in short, the rate of salary fixed upon by Lord Palmerston, and sanctioned by the late Government? What right, then, let me ask, has the hon. Member for Middlesex, —or any other hon. Member—to endeavour to create an impression against the individual by speaking of the amount of salary attached to the office he is appointed to fill? Is the amount of the salary sufficient to vitiate the appointment? If it be, reduce it. If the character of the individual selected makes his selection an improper one, attack it; but do not endeavour to create a feeling against the individual by joining the question of character with that of salary, which the present Government did not fix, but which they found established by their
 963 The Times. The Times The Times The Times? The Times The Times, The Times [Cries of "Oh!" from the Opposition.] Samuel Whalley seriatim, 964 965 "Foreign Office, October 15th 1822. "My LORD—Having laid before the King your Excellency's despatch, dated the 26th ult. requesting his Majesty's gracious permission to retire from the eminent post of his Majesty's Ambassador to the Court of Vienna, I have received the commands of his Majesty to signify to your Excellency, that his Majesty has been most graciously pleased to grant the permission you solicit, accompanied with an expression of his Majesty's deep regret for the loss of your Excellency's services, and of his Majesty's full and entire approbation of the manner in which your Excellency has for a series of years, and in times of the most critical importance, conducted the affairs of the embassy intrusted to your charge, and maintained the intimacy and cordial good understanding so happily subsisting between his Majesty and his Majesty's imperial ally." 966 967 968 [Cries of a "Majority"] à fortiori
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer :— Does the right hon. Baronet mean his remark as merely part of his speech, or does he put a direct question to me, to which he expects an explicit reply?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : Is that a question which the right hon. Baronet wishes to have answered at the present moment?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : Whether, Sir, I am in a majority or minority this House shall never find me disposed to withhold any information which I can give on any question which I can answer consistently with my sense of public duty, nor will I hesitate now to say, notwithstanding the speeches of to-night, that I am not prepared to advise the Crown to cancel that appointment.
 Sir George Strickland,  having been so personally alluded to by the right hon. Baronet, had taken the opportunity of distinctly admitting that he had expressed an opinion of the present Administration, and said, that it ought to be estimated by the known sentiment of those forming it; that such might be taken as a test of its character; and such would, in his mind, determine whether it was a Reform Administration or not. Would they not abide by the declaration they had made, in which they had thwarted every measure to which the country was looking with satisfaction? He had alluded to one of the Members of the Administration, namely, the right hon. Baronet, the Member for East Kent (Sir Edward Knatchbull.) He had learned from the newspapers that that right hon. Baronet had said, that any Administration would not be doing its duty which attempted to change the institutions derived from our ancestors. Would the right hon. Baronet deny the accuracy of that representation? He believed it was correct, from what he had learned of the right hon. Baronet's opinions; and when he reflected on what he had seen, known,
 982 Edward Knatchbull
 Colonel Evans  would detain the House but a very few minutes. The right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer, if he had rightly understood him, had admitted that one tangible accusation had been brought forward against the noble Marquess, that the noble Marquess had expressed himself adverse to the Poles and to their rights, which this country had formally acknowledged. He (Colonel Evans) had the vanity to hope that he could bring forward other accusations
 988 989
 Captain Berkeley  said, that when he attended the Board, he always found that the loss of an eye in battle was always considered as equivalent to the loss of a limb, and had an allowance made for it accordingly.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the hon. Member for Middlesex had, in the course of his observations that evening, remarked that when once a given number of men was submitted, there was never any reduction. The hon. Gentleman seemed to forget that 26,500 men were now only demanded, whereas formerly 32,000 was the fixed number. The hon. Member asked him to prove that which, in his judgment, was incapable of demonstra-
 997 998
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that these estimates were prepared in the usual form. They had been in the hands of the hon. Member for Middlesex since Saturday last, and if the hon. Member really wanted any additional information respecting them, how was it that he had not moved for the production of that additional evidence at an earlier period of the week? He might have done so on Monday, or any day since—why had he not?
 Mr. Cresset Pelham  said, that his sympathies had been roused by much that had been said with respect to the conduct of Russia towards Poland, and the subject of the relations existing between Russia, Turkey, and this country. Besides these two subjects, however, he was sorry to find that remarks of a personal character had been made with reference to a noble individual, who, he felt bound to say, had, however well or ill, exerted his powers in the service of the country for the last forty years. An hon. Member had alluded to an individual of the family of Stewart, who had long served the King, but who was a Tory, and had lent himself to the promotion of despotism; now he, as well as other Members, recollected the time when there was a general cry against only one despot in Europe, in opposition to whom the noble Marquess had exerted himself—he meant that unfortunate individual, Napoleon Buonaparte. He asked whether, in these days, the noble Marquess was to be called the aider and abettor of those persons who were now designated despots, but who, when he was connected with them, were acting in unison with this
 955
 Mr. Otway Cave  said, it was far from his wish to say any thing personally disrespectful to the noble Marquess, but he could not avoid expressing his disgust and indignation at the conduct of Russia to
 954
 Lord Ashley  rose for the purpose of proposing the first vote. It had fallen to his lot to bring under the consideration of the House, the Navy Estimates for the ensuing year; and in doing so, he felt that he stood peculiarly in need of the indulgence of the House; for having been recently appointed to the office which he had the honour to hold, he could not obtain that assistance and advice from his colleagues, which those placed in similar situations might easily procure. In bringing this subject under the consideration of the House, he had adopted the course which had been taken by his predecessors, and divided the estimates for the ensuing year under three great heads; namely 1. the Effective Service; 2. Non-effective Service; 3. Service of other Departments of Government. He might, he hoped, be permitted in the first place, to observe, that there would be 232,000 l. 991 l 
 
 was £422,517 16 6 
 In the year 1834, value of same 255,651 1 3 
 Difference 166,866 15 3 
 In 1830, vote for provisions, &c. £603,200 0 0 
 In 1835–36, vote for provisions, &c. 339,825 0 0 
 With respect to the stores and repairs he had to announce that the estimates on this head would be less for the ensuing year by 60,277 l 
 In 1834–35 there was wanting to complete the full establishment of stores £583,360 0 0 
 Insertion in the estimates for that year 450,050 0 0 
 Difference £133,270 0 0 992 
 
 This difference was the sum less than the amount which was required to complete the establishment. 
 In 1835–36 there was wanting to complete the establishment £428,550 0 0 
 Inserted in the estimate for this year (1835–36) 363,130 0 0 
 Difference £65,420 0 0 
 
 Expenditure per cent on Stock. 
 In 1829, 1830, 1831, 1832, 1833, 1834. 
 Per cent. 42 31 20 24 19 17 On Timber, 
 Per cent. 34 40 33 22 17 28 Cordage & Hemp, 
 Per cent. 12 12 12 8 5 Spars, Canvas & Sails. l. 
 
 For Half-pay of £28,257 
 Military pensions 653 
 Civil pensions & allowances 10,633 
 £107,387 l. l., l. s. d.; l. s. d. l. 993 
 
 For 1835–36 26,500 men £2,416,300 
 1817 22,944 men 5,327,306 
 1823 26,314 men 3,992,735 l. l. l. l. l. l. 
 
 In 1792 3,526 
 1833 31,330 
 Number of letters dispatched— 
 1792 8,242 
 1833 47,866 l.; l. 994
 Lord Ashley  was understood to observe, in reference to the observation of Mr. Labouchere, that the Board of Admiralty was continually receiving complaints from admirals on the different stations in respect to the insufficiency of ships, that it was therefore necessary to keep up the supply of ships by building, and Captain Symonds's plan had been adopted, and had been the admiration of all who had seen the vessels built on that plan. When he mentioned that the whole experimental squadron off Portsmouth had been distanced by an American ship, it
 1002
 Lord Ashley  said that, if the hon. Gentleman were to work the question out by a rule-of-three sum, he would obtain the result that Government had taken 10,000 l.
 Lord Ashley  promised to give this return before the Report was brought up.
 Lord Dudley Stuart  did not intend to enter into the personal discussion which had been raised, but merely to offer a few observations on the more immediate subject of the discussion—the appointment of the Marquess of Londonderry to the embassy to Russia. Of that noble Lord, in his private capacity, he knew nothing, and had no complaint to make; but he thought that it was impossible not to consider his appointment to that Embassy, as the representative of this country in Russia, as exceedingly unfortunate. He believed, that the appointment had given satisfaction to no one throughout the country, except those who were the uncompromising and inveterate enemies of the present Administration. He was sure, that there were many Gentlemen opposite, and many persons out of doors, who approved of the principles of the present Ministers, and who wished to see them continue in office, who yet deplored that appointment, considering it one of the most unfortunate which the present Mi-
 985 986 Hansard's Debates Hansard's Debates The Mirror of Parliament. 987
 Mr. Charles Buller  hoped that if his hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex did not persist in this Amendment, he would persist in some Amendment, which would show that the Committee was in earnest in their desire to reduce the establishments. He had voted in a small minority with his hon. Friend on such an Amendment against the Whigs, when they were in office; and he hoped, that his hon. Friend would propose the same Amendment, that he might vote with him against the Tories, now that they were in office. His hon. Friend was bound to bring forward such an Amend-
 1003
 Mr. George F. Young  had in his possession a drawing of the ship Vernon, published fifty-four years ago, the draught of which had been submitted to the Admiralty of the day and rejected. Upon this fact, and upon the opinion of scientific men, the plan of Captain Symonds was not new; and as to its efficiency, the Tartarus and the Blazer steam-ships, constructed on that principle, had entirely failed. He wished to ask the noble Lord how it was, as there were to be 2,000 men voted less than there were last year, the sums charged were not reduced in the same proportion, but showed an excess for this year of £11,900?
 Mr. George F. Young  did not think that his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume) seriously intended to divide on the Question of the number of men; it would be more consonant to enter on the other topics before they came again under consideration. He was persuaded that irregularities connected with the civil department of the navy would never be remedied without a Committee of this House, or a Committee of Inquiry.
 Sir Henry Hardinge : If the noble Lord had intimated to me, before I came down to the House to-night, that he intended to put a question to me, as he says, of great
 938
 Mr. Labouchere  justified the increase of the marines, inasmuch as it required some time to discipline a body of men in that service—a service which he thought it was sound policy to maintain efficient. The hon. Member for Middlesex had referred to the subject of ships in ordinary, shipbuilding and repairs; the subject was one which had long been under the consideration of the noble Lord, the late Chancellor of the Exchequer, and the impression on the noble Lord's mind was, that some great improvements were capable of adoption. He hoped that the attention of the Admiralty would be drawn to this important subject, and that, on that head, in future some great reductions in the estimates would be made, but made gradually.
 Mr. Labouchere  felt disposed to give credit to the present Government for the reductions they had made, and for a disposition to economy; but his noble Friend had told them, that in the reductions of the present year, they were only following up the plans that had been adopted by the late Administration. He must add, that though he gave the Government of the Duke of Wellington credit for having made many reductions, and for a disposition to make more, had he continued in office, he could not give him credit for his reductions in this particular department of the navy. By the reductions made, and the economical system pursued by his right hon. Friend, the Member for Cumberland, 1,200,000 l. 995
 Mr. Warburton  thought, that if the
 1004
 Dr. Bowring  said, that he had intended to suggest an improvement in the form of those estimates; but, as he had a specific Motion on the subject, he would not at present enter into any long details. He considered that great improvement was made in the form of the present estimate, for which the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Cumberland, was to be thanked. Still the estimate was not in such a shape as to enable the House to judge of the whole
 1001
 Mr. Hume  remarked, that there were no grounds for stating that in former years the commercial interests of this country had been unprotected. He contended on the authority of Returns in his hand, that during the last five years the commerce of Great Britain had been duly protected with an average number of men in the naval service of 20,600 men, marines included. He was at a loss to understand why one ship more should be required in the Mediterranean than in the year 1792, and why, therefore, the recommendation of the Committee appointed in 1792 upon the Navy Estimates should be departed from. There were no peculiar circumstances which could have required alteration, neither was there a necessity for any additional protection to trade. If, however, the number of men in the service was not to be reduced, at all events an end ought to be put to the building of any more ships till the ordinary was reduced. Many noble ships of 130 and 120 guns were rotting in our harbours; and yet new vessels were on the stocks. If the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Government would take a lesson, he would advise him to look at the estimates of the year 1792, when he would find that the expenses of repairing ships or building new vessels were accounted for to the very pound on every ship. In this respect he could not but complain of the manner in which information was afforded to the House, and though much credit had been claimed for the reduction which had taken place in these estimates, yet he must say that, in their details, they were less clear than any others laid before the House. He especially referred to the manner in which the marine service was dealt with. The number of field officers, captains, lieutenants, and commissioned officers, ought to be specified, as in the army. Such was not the case; and in conclusion he would move, as an amendment, that the number of men be reduced to 20,500.
 Mr. Hume  considered it most important, as the King had been graciously pleased to declare in his Speech from the Throne that the Estimates of the year had been made with the strictest attention to economy, they should now inquire into the wisdom of applying so much of the public money to the paying for the services of such an individual as the Marquess of Londonderry. He knew nothing of the noble Marquess but as a public man, and he would ask the House, what they were to expect from an Administration which could make such a selection for this office, which must be high and important, if they were to judge of its importance by the greatness of the salary attached to it. There were only two Embassies in the whole circle of diplomatic appointments, whose expenses were rated at the same high value of 10,000 l l l l l l l l l l 951 952
 Mr. Hume  had stated, that the salary attached to the office was 10,000 l l l l
 Mr. Hume  said, that if the number of admirals, post-captains, &c., were given before the Report was brought up, and if he were thus secure of another opportunity of discussing this vote, he would for the present withdraw any further opposition.
 Mr. Hume  said, that in 1818, when there were only 20,000 men kept up, the expense was 6,521,000 l., minimum. 996 Ashley l. l.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the more he heard this subject discussed, the more did he feel it to be his duty to move that the Chairman do now report progress, and ask leave to sit again.  [Cries of "Go on."]
 Mr. Hume  said, that at present the estimates were drawn up in such a manner as to be perfectly unintelligible, and till they were rendered intelligible, he should call for such information as he thought requisite to elucidate them.
 Mr. Sheil  said, that, in order to meet the wishes of the House, as he understood from the right hon. Baronet that the appointment of the noble Marquess had not been as yet completed, and, therefore, that the document for which he had moved was not in a state to be laid before the House, he should withdraw his Motion, satisfied that after the discussion of that night the noble Marquess himself would, in compliance with the feeling of the country, resign at once the appointment to which he had been named.
 Mr. Sheil  rose to move, as an Amendment to the Motion, that the Speaker leave the Chair,
 939 940 941 942 The Times The Times Courier, salons l. 943 944 l. * "Holderness House, May 14, 1827. "My DEAR LORD—Having just read in  The Times (Signed) "VANE LONDONDERRY." * †Ibid. p. 1407. 945
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson,  in rising to second the Motion, did not intend to make any objection to the reported appointment of Lord Londonderry of a personal nature; his objection to that appointment was founded on public grounds,—on the admitted and declared sentiments of the noble Lord on one important point connected with our relations with Russia. He believed that this country was under obligations to maintain the independence and nationality of Poland, which had been destroyed by Russia; and he, for one, would never cease to protest against the infraction of the Treaty of Vienna, by which the independence of Poland was guaranteed. He put it to the noble Lord opposite, the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs (Lord Mahon), to state the exact situation in which that great question stood. He took it that Poland had not lost a single right which she had, under her constitution, sworn to by the Monarch, by whom it was infringed; nor were the claims which that unfortunate country had on the Powers who guaranteed her constitution less strong than ever they were. He trusted that the attention of the new Government would be directed to this subject. He had had the honour of bringing that Question before the House at three different periods; and, on the last occasion, he went the length of taking the sense of the House on a Motion, declaring that this country could not acknowledge the present state of Poland, involving, as it did, a violation of the Treaty of Vienna, to which this country was a party. That Motion was assented to by the late Government in principle:—they admitted that the Treaty of Vienna had been violated; but they said, that they had remonstrated against the breach of that treaty, and that they had done no act by which the present state of things was acknowledged. He had, therefore, hoped that the present Government, acting in
 946 947
 Mr. Gisborne  asked, is this all the defence that is to be offered for this appointment? Is it to be rested on the speech of the noble Member for Hertford, or upon the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Shrewsbury? I have heard some
 956 Hon. Member: 957 "Otium Divos rogat in patenti Prensus Ægteo, simul atra nubes Condidit Lunam, neque certa fulgent Sidera nautis." otium otium,
 Mr. Ewart  said, that it was proper on occasions to recollect the sayings of great men, and he thought the present an appropriate opportunity of quoting the text of "measures not men," which the right hon. Baronet had laid down even in opposition to the leading article of the  Times, Vir bonus peregre missus ad mentiendum republicœ causa. 990 vir bonus, peregre missus, ad veritatem dicendam libertatis causâ.
 Admiral Adam  agreed with his hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex, in thinking that these estimates should be produced completely in detail.
 Sir Edward Codrington  complained that justice was not done to that meritorious class of men, the pursers. Their half-pay was 3 s. s. l., l.,
 Sir Edward Codrington  had applied to Sir George Cockburn in one case of that kind, and met with a refusal.
 Sir Edward Codrington  was understood to say, that, to his knowledge, in the experimental squadron to which the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) had alluded, there were officers who had never acted in a fleet before, and were entirely unacquainted with its arrangements and evolutions. He was favourable to the maintenance of the marines, as they rendered effective service both on sea and on shore.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull : It had been matter of deep and sore regret to him, since the meeting of Parliament, to see night after night wasted in purely personal discussion. He had imagined that the debate would be confined strictly to the fitness or unfitness of Lord Londonderry for the office of Ambassador at the Court of St. Petersburgh, yet he was called on to defend himself from personal attack, a thing he had almost conceived out of the pale of possibility. Nothing was more unpleasant to him individually than to be obliged to speak of himself; but if he was personal for a brief space he trusted the House would bear with him, as he was compelled to it by the course the debate had taken. He trusted,
 978 979 980 981
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  repeated, that he had never made use of the expressions attributed to him. He had only to add, that he could not be held responsible for reports in the newspapers; he had referred to the particular statement to which
 983
 Mr. Henry Lytton Bulwer  observed, that if it were important for the House to exercise an active superintendence over the domestic affairs of the country, it was doubly necessary that they should watch vigilantly over everything connected with its foreign policy and relations. Their vigilance was especially called for, in reference to the present case: for the question now under discussion acquired a peculiar interest and importance from the very momentous nature of the affairs which were to be transacted in Russia. Let the House contrast the conduct of Russia with the conduct of this country. They found Russia sending there, to represent and watch over her interests, one of the ablest Ministers which she possessed, Count Pozzo di Borgo. It was remarkable that for the last two or three years, we had had no Ambassador at any place where important business was to be transacted; and now, at last, a Curtius was found who was to be thrown into this diplomatic gulf. He would only say, that the appointment of Lord Londonderry must lead the public to believe that Ambassadors were sent to foreign Courts, not for the service of this country, but for the service which their salaries rendered to those individuals.
 Sir James Graham  said, that having had the honour of being appealed to by the right hon. Baronet (the Chancellor of the
 999 1000
 Sir John Hobhouse  would take the liberty, then, at once, of giving his very humble, and, it might be, most insignificant opinion; but it was one in which he was, notwithstanding, confident, agreeing as it did, not only with the feeling of this House, but, also, with that of the noble Lord, the Member for Lancashire, whose speech, he must say, the right hon. Gentleman had not even touched upon—he must express his decided opinion, that the country would regret much that the right hon. Gentleman—with more manliness than discretion, with more respect for his own opinion and that of his colleagues, than for the opinion of the country—still persevered in that, not only most unfortunate, but most improper, appointment. Previously to making the observations, he had to submit, which he should do very shortly, for the Question really appeared to him to lie within a nutshell, he would take notice of the little episode the right hon. Baronet had introduced as a foundation for his speech with reference to the Paymaster of the Forces. For his own part, he had never heard of such an offer as had been alluded to having been made by the late Government to the Paymaster of the Forces. It might be perfectly true that it was made, but there was a difference between the late Government offering the right hon. Gentleman an appointment and the present Prime Minister having offered him it. He did not recollect, that that right hon. Gentleman (the Paymaster of the Forces) ever accused Lord Grey of having put himself at the head of a great cause for the purpose of betraying it. The right hon. Gentleman had certainly been in opposition to many of the measures proposed by those who acted with Earl Grey, and by that, perhaps, he might account for the right hon. Baronet offering him office. The right hon. Baronet, by his nods, seemed to assent to that; and if it were so, then he could account for it, although he had never heard of it before, and it was most
 970 971 The Parliamentary Debates; bienfaisant 972 973 974 975 976 977
 Sir John Hobhouse  did not desire to press the right hon. Baronet for an immediate answer if it were inconvenient. What he meant was, that by the course of argument pursued by the right hon. Baronet, he could not ascertain, whether he meant to tell the House of Commons that in the present state of feeling, as regarded this appointment, and after the expression of the opinion which he had heard to-night, which he would not say was the opinion of the majority, though it looked very much like it—whether such being the feeling, and such the expression of opinion, the right hon. Gentleman did intend to persevere in the appointment.
 Sir John Hobhouse  called on the right hon. Gentleman to answer the question, because he could not gather from his speech, whether he meant to say that the appointment was to be persisted in or not.
 Sir John Hobhouse  felt bound to ask a question, which, in his opinion, the right hon. Baronet had rendered necessary, notwithstanding all he had said, which was, whether the right hon. Gentleman, upon his responsibility—and he had fairly and manfully avowed his readiness to take upon himself as much of the responsibility, if not the whole of it, as could belong to him—intended to persevere in this appointment?
 Sir Samuel Whalley : on this vote all the others depended. It was now more than half-past twelve o'clock at night, and if a wrong decision were then made upon this vote, how was it to be remedied hereafter? The right hon. Baronet ought to let this vote stand over to another night, as it formed the nucleus of almost every other vote in the navy estimates.
 Lord Ebrington : The right hon. Baronet the Member for Kent (Sir Edward Knatchbull) had complained that too much of the time of the House was taken up in the discussion of personal matters. He did not think that the right hon. Baronet had any right to attribute the practice of entering into those discussions exclusively to the Opposition side of the House; not only in the course of the present Session, but during the three last years, when his hon. Friends now on that side of the House sat on the opposite benches, the system of crimination and recrimination had been carried to a greater extent by the hon. Gentlemen on the opposite side than it had been on the present occasion. If the right hon. Baronet had any reason to complain of the practice on the present occasion, his complaints should be brought against his right hon. Friend, the First Lord of the Treasury, who had been the first to bring his name forward. He did not believe that any Gentleman, on the opposite side of the House, could think that the character of Lord Grey could suffer in any respect from anything which had been alluded to that evening; and he might add, that it was as evident that the character of the right hon. Baronet (Sir Edward Knatchbull) stood equally clear. The right hon. Baronet had said, that in declining office he had wished the noble Earl in question success in the formation of his Government, and in the prosecution of his plans of Reform [Sir  Edward Knatchbull: 984
 Lord Mahon  said, that the hon. Member for Tipperary had commenced his speech with an observation on the great importance of our relations with Russia and Turkey; from that remark, and from the notice on the paper, he owned he did expect that the hon. Member intended to draw the attention of the House to a question, the importance of which he had so justly appreciated. But so impatient had that hon. Member shewn himself to plunge into personal invective  ["No, No!"] 949 ex post facto Cutlar Fergusson: 950 Mr. Hume:
 Mr. Gladstone would put it to the hon. Gentleman, whether it were wise or discreet to renew this discussion?
 Lord John Russell said, that he was informed by one of the Commissioners of Public Instruction (Ireland) that in the course of next week a Special Report would be made by certain Local Commissioners, who had examined the parishes in eight dioceses in Ireland. He imagined, therefore, that in the course of the following week the report would be in the possession of the Members of that House. He wished, therefore, to put it to the House whether, as such was the case, it would not be advisable to postpone the Motion, of which he had given notice, respecting the Church of Ireland; because, when he originally gave notice of the Motion, he supposed that the Report of the Commissioners would be laid upon the Table of the House before the day fixed for that Motion. He would now move for the production, without delay, of any Reports which might be received from the Commissioners, and if it should meet with the concurrence of the House, he would afterwards postpone his Motion till the 30th instant, for which day he would move a call of the House. The noble Lord concluded by moving that there be laid upon the Table of the House, copies of all Special Reports, that may be received from the Commissioners of Public Instruction (Ireland).
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer said, that he must call upon the noble Lord to give notice of the Motion; it was one which ought not to be made as a matter of course. The question was, whether incomplete Reports should be made from the Commissioners. Up to the present moment, the Government had received no Report from the Commissioners, and it did not appear that Government possessed the same means of ascertaining from the Commissioners the course which would be taken by them as the noble Lord had. Without entering into any discussion now, he begged the House to have the goodness to observe, that the question they had to decide was, whether they would proceed to affirm a general resolution on a partial Report? Whether or not the dioceses referred to by the noble Lord had been examined he could not state; but he must object to the Motion being made without notice.
 Lord John Russell had no objection to comply with the suggestion of the right
 1018
 The Marquess of Chandos asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer when it was probable that he would announce his plan for the relief of the agricultural interest?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer: In answer to the question proposed by the noble Marquess, must repeat what he had stated to many Gentlemen—namely, that with respect to all matters relating to the remission of taxes and fiscal regulations, it was better, that he should make a full statement of his intentions on the subject at the earliest possible period after the termination of the financial year, when he should know with sufficient accuracy for practical purposes, what would be the amount of the demands for the public service, and what the probable amount of surplus. This statement he expected to make early in the next month, which would allow hon. Members who might object to the views he might then lay before the House sufficient time to adopt what course they might think advisable. The House would recollect that it was only in December that he had assumed his duties, and taking into consideration the manner in which he had since then been occupied, it really was but fair that he should have time to make up his mind upon several important points connected with the finances of the country. He thought that he should best consult the public interest by declining to make any premature disclosures.
 Lord John Russell: I beg to ask the right hon. Baronet whether, after what passed in this House on Friday night, it is still the
 1019
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer: I will answer the question of the noble Lord without the slightest reserve. About an hour since a letter was sent to me by the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, which he had just received from the Marquess of Londonderry. The noble Marquess stated, that after the debate on Friday, he felt that his power of usefulness as his Majesty's representative at St. Petersburgh must be greatly impaired. He had therefore thought it a public duty to relinquish the situation for which he had been chosen. I am bound to add, that that course was adopted by the noble Marquess entirely on his own judgment, unsolicited and unsuggested, either directly or indirectly, by his Majesty's Government.
 Lord John Russell: After what has fallen from the right hon. Baronet, I rise to say, that recollecting what passed in this House on Friday night, I think the noble Marquess acted rightly. Since he could no longer proceed as Ambassador to St. Petersburgh with any hope of public usefulness, I admire the manly way in which he has come to that determination; but, at the same time, I do feel bound to remark that this country is placed in a situation of new and great embarrassment by the appointment of an Ambassador by the Ministers of the Crown, which appointment can afterwards be set aside by the judgment of the House of Commons. I think, in the case of which we are now speaking, that the appointment was altogether so ill-advised as to call for the observations made by the hon. Member for Tipperary, and by other Gentlemen. I must say, that in the experiment we are now making, which experiment the right hon. Baronet calls a fair trial, we run a considerable hazard, that all the most useful prerogatives of the Crown will lose the dignity and respect with which they have been usually regarded. I own I come more and more to the opinion that we ought to revert, whenever we can, to that old practice of the Constitution under which the powers of the Crown were administered and exercised by persons in whom this House and the country had confidence—the House not being required to express its separate opinion upon appointments so
 1020
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer: The noble Lord has assumed, that the retirement of the Marquess of Londonderry took place in consequence of the proceedings of the House of Commons. I do not mean to deny that it arose out of the discussion here—I meant nothing so unfair or so uncandid as to deny that the resignation was the consequence of that discussion; but I beg leave to remind the House, that it was only a discussion, and not a vote in the form of an Address to the Crown. When the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Nottingham, asked me, on Friday night, whether it was my intention to advise the Crown to cancel the appointment, or to withhold the completion of it, I did feel myself bound distinctly to state, that I should not consider it consistent with my duty as a public man to tender that advice. Some may suppose that the decision of the Marquess of Londonderry, though not directly suggested by Government, was made in consequence of some indirect communication. I beg leave distinctly to declare, that such was not the case. It was the single unsolicited act of the Marquess of Londonderry. No doubt, that appointment
 1021
 Lord Stanley: I rise to order. There is no question before the House, and the course now attempted to be pursued is extremely inconvenient. Conversation
 1022
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer said, that the reason was because that was the second time that the hon. Member had
 1030
 Lord John Russell would, with the permission of the House, reply to one observation which had fallen from the right hon. Baronet opposite. The right hon. Gentleman had called upon the House to express its opinion by some direct vote of want of confidence. Now, he begged the House to recollect that the ground on which the right hon. Gentleman had stood ever since the formation of the Government was, that though the House might not give the Ministry implicit confidence, they were entitled to a fair trial—to be allowed an opportunity of bringing forward their measures. If, then, a direct vote of want of confidence had been brought forward, he put it to the right hon. Gentlemen opposite, whether they would not have said to the Opposition—"You now preclude us from being heard; you want to condemn us without trial; and to reject our reforms, before you are able to judge of them." He (Lord John Russell) for one, would not expose himself to the chance of receiving such an answer, but he was willing to wait for the time and hour when the Gentlemen opposite would bring forward those great measures of Reform which they had promised.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer said, that it would then appear from the noble Lord's statement that the course the Ministry was pursuing was the right one, for the noble Lord did not mean to refuse a hearing to the Ministry; the noble Lord was, in fact prepared to give them confidence, he was prepared to wait for their measures. He intended to propose tomorrow a Bill for the relief of persons dissenting from the Church of England in regard to the celebration of marriage; and another Bill in the course of next week, to promote the commutation of tithe in England. In the course of the present week also an attempt would be made to settle a question, the most difficult of all, and requiring; immediate attention—namely, the tithe question of Ireland. Now, he begged to put this question to the noble Lord opposite—if, in consequence of discussions in that House, and of votes, excepting the questionable votes on the Speakership and on the Address, he had thrown up the Government, would not the noble Lord, with his present sentiments, have turned and said to him, "You are guilty of a cowardly abandonment of
 1031
 Lord John Russell did not wish that those sentiments should be mistaken for his, because he was entirely in favour of the maxim which the right hon. Baronet was once for—that the men in possession of the Government ought to have the confidence of the House of Commons. Still, if the Opposition had brought forward any direct vote of want of confidence, the right hon. Baronet might have gained the votes of a great number of persons, on the plea of being unfairly treated.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer begged to represent to the House, that he was placed in a difficult situation by debates arising out of questions put to Members of the Government. An hon. Member on the opposite side of the House got up and asked a question, which he answered, not expecting a debate; and he was after-
 1028 1029
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer said, that the hon. Member had misunderstood him. What he had said was, that he objected generally to the executive Government being relieved from responsibility by the Report of a Committee; and that such Committees ought not to be too frequent.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer said, he could not accede to the Amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Middlesex. They had made some progress in the Navy Estimates. They came to the first vote without any dissent, and now, in the course of their progress, the hon. Gentleman, without having given the slightest notice of his intention, called on the House to agree to his present proposition. The Estimates were, by the sanction of the House, referred to a Committee of supply, and the hon. Member for Middlesex, without, as he must again remark, the slightest notice, while they were in the course of that reference in fulfilment of the orders of the House, proposed that they should be taken from the cognizance of the House, and referred to a Committee up-stairs. If the
 1037 1038 Hume: 1039
 Captain Berkeley said, he had declared that he felt no confidence in the present Administration; but he had also said that he would give no factious vote, and he did think that if he supported the Motion, the object of which was to prevent the Speaker from leaving the Chair, he should be giving a vote that was factious.
 Mr. George F. Youny said, that while he was compelled to withhold his confidence from Ministers, still he was resolved to afford them in every respect fair play. It was not necessary for a notice of a Motion to be given in all cases, still he would say, he thought it to be most in convenient to depart from the usual course. He thought there were great constitutional objections to the giving up of the powers of the Administration to the Committees, but he was also of opinion that such Committees were perfectly justifiable under peculiar circumstances. If it were asked why a Committee was not appointed last year, the obvious answer was, that they were not placed in the same situation last year.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer was quite aware of that. He had all along seen that the hon. Gentleman had been pursuing the prophetic course of one who expected to be Minister himself. But how was it, though the hon. Gentleman did expect to be Chancellor of the Exchequer, that he never thought of moving for the appointment of this Committee? Did he reason in this way—"I expect to be Chancellor of the Exchequer myself, and if I am, I may consider the appointment of a Committee inconvenient?'
 Captain Berkeley said, that the captains who commanded those yachts were competent to serve on courts martial, and they were frequently selected as Judges in that tribunal, when it might be very inconvenient to bring officers from a distance to the stations where these officers were placed as commanders of his Majesty's yachts.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer said, that he had not the honour of a personal acquaintance with Professor Airy; but was induced by his reputation to write to him to say, that he should have great gratification if he would allow him (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) to recommend him to his Majesty as a pensioner on the Civil List, in order to encourage those who devoted their lives to science, to pursue studies so honourable to the country, whilst it was quite clear that the devotion of the same talents to lucrative pursuits would lead to wealth. He added that he did not consider the pension as conferring any personal or political obligation whatever, and in the result he had the permission of the reverend Professor to advise his Majesty to bestow on him a pension of 300 l.
 Lord Ashley said, that he had inquired into the subject, and found that the ships which had been constructed on Captain Symonds's plan were generally and highly approved of. One of those ships, although larger by a considerable number of tons than another on the old construction, yet cost less by 14,500 l.
 Lord Ashley said, there were employed in the yachts, fifteen, sixteen, and fourteen, besides the master and some other officer whose designation did not reach us.
 Lord Ashley said, that there were two boats' crews and two captains, who were partly paid as superintendants in the dock-yards.
 Lord Dudley Stuart: I do not wish to make any ill-natured remarks, after the noble Marquess has taken the only course that was left to him. I wish, however, to congratulate the House and the lovers of liberty and justice that the noble Marquess has found it necessary to relinquish the high office committed to him—that of representing this country at the court of Russia. I rejoice at it for this reason, above all others—because the noble Marquess ventured publicly to malign a gallant people, struggling for their civil liberties and their national independence.
 Mr. Aaron Chapman thought it would be a disgrace to the House of Commons to entertain the idea of effecting a reduction in so paltry an establishment as that of the Royal Yachts.
 Mr. Charles Buller observed, that under the guise of what was termed keeping up the Royal dignity, a great deal of jobbing was frequently concealed; and he had no hesitation in expressing it as his opinion that the resolution then before the House had all the characteristics of a job.
 Mr. Robinson observed, that the advice of the hon. Member for Bath went the length of advising the Canadians to harass every government. As long as he acknowledged the giving such advice the hon. Gentleman showed himself as one throwing in a firebrand to excite and to irritate, and was adopting a course which would only have the effect of preventing all adjustment. Why should the hon. Gentleman assume, that it was not the intent of the British Government to redress any evils which the Colonies could fairly point out? The hon. Gentleman had advised the Canadians to resist the British Government if it did not grant their claims to the fullest extent. He could not agree with the hon. Gentleman in this advice, and he felt satisfied, that the Canadians would have reason to regret that their cause was not in the hands of the hon. Member for Taunton, who would be more likely than the hon. Member for Bath to conduct them to a satisfactory issue.
 Mr. George F. Young stated that, though the yachts might be lying without men or officers, yet they cost a considerable sum in keeping in a state of efficiency which the House knew nothing of, and they were always liable to expense.
 Mr. George F. Young gave notice that he should move for a return of the expense of keeping up the two yachts for the last three years; and then, on the bringing up of the Report, he should take the sense of the House on the question of the propriety of reducing the estimate by the amount of that expense.
 Mr. George F. Young complained of the appointment of Captain Symonds as Surveyor of the Navy. He had made a similar complaint in the last two Sessions, and he repeated it now, because experience had shown that that appointment had been most prejudicial to the interests of the public. Captain Symonds was supposed to be the inventor of a particular plan for the construction of ships of
 1049 Boscawen, Courageux, St. Domingo, l.
 Sir Henry Hardinge: I confess I think that my noble Friend, the Marquess of Londonderry, could have taken no other step, and that he was bound in honour and spirit to adopt it. In my opinion, the charges against him are most unfounded and most unjust, and some circumstances were most ungenerously brought forward. Any one of us acting in public life to-day may be liable to such accusations to-morrow; but I do not rise to find fault with those who took part in the discussion on Friday; and having been for a long series of years connected with the noble Marquess, I should have risen in defence of his honour had I considered it attacked. I wish, however, now to observe, that when the noble Marquess speaks he does not always measure his words very accurately, and that it is hardly fair to quarrel with particular expressions used in the heat of debate. It is more particularly hard upon my noble Friend on the subject of Poland, because I know that his sentiments are diametrically opposite to those imputed to him. If there be one individual more than another who has a high respect for the opinions of his relation the late Marquess of Londonderry, it is my noble Friend,—and the late Marquess in no respect distinguished himself in foreign politics more than in solicitude for the welfare of Poland. I believe that that fact is well ascertained; and it is also known, that the present Marquess has always been anxious to follow the steps of his lamented brother as regards the Poles. Let me add, that I have avoided seeing the noble Marquess; and that his resolution regarding the embassy to St.
 1026
 Sir Henry Hardinge said, that the present Government had not interfered in the slightest degree with the Commission, and were entirely ignorant of their proceedings.
 Mr. Labouchere thought, that the establishments at Somerset-house ought to be increased rather than diminished.
 The Speaker: The Question is, that the Order of the Day for the House to resolve itself into a Committee of Supply be read.
 Dr. Bowring compared the number of  employés
 Dr. Bowring said, the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Cumberland, had done less in the way of estimates than in that of accounts, and he hoped, the hon. Baronet would allow him to say  spero meliora. l.; l., 1046 l. s. d. l., l.
 Mr. Roebuck wished to vindicate himself from the charge of having endeavoured to excite the people of Canada to take up arms. He insisted that the letter which he had written could not be tortured into such a construction. In that letter he had advised the Canadians to resort to all means except arms. The letter he acknowledged to be his, and to the sentiments it expressed he still adhered. Of the other letter to which allusion had been made, he knew nothing, and he never wrote anything to which he would object to have his name attached. He had told the Canadians that they could gain nothing from this Government but by stand-
 1016
 Mr. Hume: There is a Question before the House; and if not, it would be competent in me to conclude with a Motion which would satisfy the noble Lord, and enable him to make any observations in reply without irregularity. Therefore, there is no necessity for the noble Lord's extreme sensitiveness on the point of order, and violent alarm lest we should be guilty of a breach of it. The right hon. Baronet has used one expression, which seems to throw a reflection on the House for rejecting Viscount Canterbury, and electing another Speaker in his stead, as if that were a matter of complaint against the House, as we all know it is a matter of regret with the Ministers. I take it as a matter of reflection upon myself and upon those who acted with me, and I consider that the right hon. Baronet has no right to make it. The right hon. Baronet will judge for himself, according to the dictates of his own feelings, as to what constitutes a declaration of the confidence or the no confidence of the House; but it certainly seems that he is not at all inclined to take a hint, and that no slight indication of no-confidence will convince him. Nothing less will satisfy him than a vote, that he and his colleagues are unworthy to be trusted with the management of public affairs—nothing less will satisfy him, and nothing will satisfy him less. I trust that such a Resolution will be sufficient, and that it will very soon be adopted. But what I rose principally to observe upon, was the peculiar situation in which the country is placed by having an Administration acting as this seems to act. Whatever opinion I might entertain of the Marquess of Londonderry (and I must own that his conduct in this instance has raised him in my estimation), he, at least, has had the discretion which the right hon. Baronet and his colleagues have not. He has shown the good sense, I wish the right hon. Baronet had shown as much, not to run counter to the opinion of this House. On the contrary, the right hon. Baronet, when directly appealed to, said, that he should proceed to complete the appointment. Has he done so? This is one of
 1023 1024
 Mr. Hume: I appeal to the Chair.
 Mr. Hume: I agree with the right hon. Baronet in thinking, that he has some reason to complain, that no direct vote of censure has been moved. I hope ere long that his wish for a fair and speedy trial will be gratified. Every man will form his own conclusions—
 Mr. Hume wished to know how many men were employed in the Royal yachts.
 Mr. Hume wished to know how many yachts there were.
 Mr. Hume said, that from the manner in which the Estimates passed through the House, it precluded the possibility of their being properly examined, or discussed. The Navy Estimates did not show the number of officers required in any particular branch of the marine service. He could not ascertain from them the number of Colonels, Lieutenant-colonels, and other officers employed. Now he thought it right that the House should know the number of officers in the marines, their allowances, with the number upon full-pay, and on half-pay, &c. He would exemplify what he objected to by reference to a Return which he had moved for last Session. By that Return, which was dated the 7th of June, 1834, he found that the number of officers in the naval service at that date was 5,300, of whom only 460 were on full pay, yet during the year it appeared that there was considerable promotion in the navy. Now he thought that the House ought to have the opportunity of knowing why there were so many promotions from day to day, while there were nearly 4,000 pensioners, very many of whom would willingly serve. From the present system the House was precluded from inquiring into this subject. The besetting sin of the navy was, that very many good
 1032
 Mr. Hume, as one of the party opposed to the Government, did not think it right to allow the right hon. Baronet to select for them the day of attack. He begged the right hon. Baronet to leave them to choose their own time and day for that purpose. This was the second time that the right hon. Baronet had endeavoured to prevail on them to take his advice.
 Mr. Hume: The right hon. Gentleman asked why, when a Government was disposed to economy, should a Select Committee be appointed to interfere? But one of the grounds of the Motion was the speech of the noble Lord (Lord Ashley), who declared, in moving the estimates, that economy in that department had been brought to its  minimum.
 Mr. Hume thought, that Parliament should take into consideration the propriety of changing the present system of taxation, which was framed by persons who were not elected by the people but were nominated Members of the House of Commons, and, of course, that system was of such a nature as was best adapted to promote the interests of those who sent them to Parliament. There was not a single word in the speech relative to the taking off taxes, which could only be done by reducing the expenditure. They had been told, that the amount of the public revenue, in which reductions could be made, was not more than fifteen millions; but he contended that the amount in which reductions could be made was upwards of twenty millions. He was satisfied that reductions to nearly one-half twenty millions could be effected without injury to the public service. There was not more than two millions of the Consolidated Fund, independently of the interest of the National Debt, that could not be touched by that House. The salaries of the Judges, as well as of all other public functionaries, could, and ought to, be reduced; and also large reductions should be made in every branch of the public
 1033 l. 1034 1035 l.; l. l. l.; l. 1036 minimum,
 Mr. Hume said, that if the statements of the hon. Member for Tynemouth were correct, and fifty ships had been laid down upon the new principle, it was high time they had the report of some scientific and practical men upon the subject. 1051
 Mr. Stewart: the hon. Gentleman reversed Johnson's definition of a fashionable patron, whom Dr. Johnson described as one who encumbers you with help when you have just reached the land; for the bon. Gentleman met him with an interruption when he had nearly arrived at the end of his journey. There was one point to which he would refer, and in doing so he would take the opportunity of saying that he felt satisfied this discussion, so far from doing injury, would on the contrary, be productive of good. The point to which he alluded was the necessity which existed of revising the representation, the evil of which consisted in this, that, whilst in one part (the Upper) of the Canadas the representation was founded on property and population combined, in the Lower the principle of population was alone acted upon. The hon. Gentleman quoted a passage from Burke, to show that if the Colonies conformed as closely as possible to the mother country in their mode of enjoying civil and social rights nothing would ever be likely to separate them. This, he hoped would prove to be the case of the Canadas. There was still, as he hoped whatever Commission was sent out would find, a fund of sound sense amongst the people of Canada, which, on the redress of any just grievance under which they might labour, would still ensure the continuance of the connection between them and the mother country.
 Mr. Patrick Stewart rose for the purpose of presenting to the House a Petition which he considered of very great importance, inasmuch as it would give to hon. Members something like a fair knowledge not only of the present unfortunate condition of Lower Canada, but of the real state of parties and opinions in that Colony. This petition was signed by 11,170 English, Irish, and French Canadians, resident at Montreal and its vicinity, and, so far from agreeing in the sentiments contained in the petition presented by the hon. and learned Member for Bath the other night, these petitioners expressed the deepest and most unfeigned regret at the disloyal spirit which a few discontented men had succeeded in engendering in the province in which they resided. They looked with dismay and alarm at the proceedings of a faction, whose only object was to destroy the present Constitution, and place in its stead a destructive democracy; and they severely deplored that their internal affairs were not altogether under the control of an external Legislature. In short, they reiterated the sentiments embodied in that part of his noble Friend (Lord Stanley's) the member for Lancashire's well known despatch, which was rejected by the House of Assembly, and humbly prayed, that the Constitution which had originally been given to Lower Canada should be preserved in its integrity to that Colony. It might perhaps be said, that these were the sentiments of Tories, but this he begged leave to deny. They were the sentiments of the old and constitutional Canadian Whigs, and this would be proved by a reference to the papers published at Montreal. The hon. Gentleman read extracts from some of those papers in which, though the principles of Reform were strongly insisted on, the most unqualified censure was cast upon those "injurious and dangerous advisers" who were endeavouring to create discord and anarchy in that province. He would call the attention of the House, and more particularly of the hon. and learned Member for Bath, to a letter which had some time ago appeared in the Canadian papers and created a strong sensation in that Colony.
 1014 Roebuck: 1015
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson said, there could exist no doubt as to the Marquess of Londonderry's want of sympathy for the Poles, and that that circumstance of itself formed a sufficient ground of objection to his appointment as Ambassador to Russia.
 Mr. Spring Rice inquired of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether his Majesty's Government had granted any pension to Professor Airy.
 Mr. Spring Rice said, that every one, both in and out of the House, would hear with satisfaction the answer of the right hon. Baronet. The pursuits of science, however conducive to the public benefit, were any thing but profitable to the individual engaged in them; and if a man like Professor Airy did not meet with reward in some such way as had so much to his credit been adopted by the right hon. Baronet, it would be a matter of regret to all who valued the honour of their country. The predecessors of the right hon. Baronet might be allowed to envy him the opportunity he had had of bestowing such a mark of the Sovereign's approval upon Professor Airy; and he must, in justice to his noble Friend, who was lately at the head of the Treasury, say that he also had had his attention turned to the merits of that distinguished man, and he held in his hand a copy of a letter addressed to him at the desire of Lord Melbourne. It was to this effect—
 "Downing-street, August 25, 1834. "MY DEAR SIR.—It is highly probable that a vacancy may take place very shortly in the office of Astronomer Royal. If this event occur, it will be of course the duty and the object of the Government to make such a selection as shall be most conducive to the interest of science, and as shall secure to our national astronomical establishment and its observations, the greatest respect and authority throughout Europe. "On these principles it is more than
 1053 "Pray let me hear from you at your earliest convenience, and believe me, &c. T. SPRING RICE, "To rev. Professor Airy, Cambridge."
 Mr. Gillon protested against the use of the phrase, "despicable economy," as it was applied by hon. Members, who had taken a part in that discussion. He conceived that it was much more disgraceful, that hon. Members should sanction any resolution which would take a pound unnecessarily out of the pockets of the people, than they should give their support to the view which the hon. Member for Middlesex took of this matter.
 Admiral Adam said, that desirous as he was of enforcing every practicable economy, he should be sorry to see the state and dignity of the King, in a maritime country like this, deprived of its necessary appendages,
 Sir E. Codrington thought, the attempt most discreditable. He would prefer seeing the office of Lord Chamberlain, and other offices of that description, abolished, to dispensing with those yachts, which were necessary for the maintenance of the Royal dignity. He could not help designating any proposition
 1048
 Sir Edward Codrington bore testimony to the excellence of Captain Symonds's principles of naval architecture, and could say, that the experiments which he had witnessed, had induced him to recommend Captain Symonds to the attention of the late Government.
 Captain Pechell did not rise for the purpose of defending the expenses incident upon the adoption of Captain Symonds's plan, or to justify the appointment of that gentleman to the office of surveyor of the navy. He, however, thought that the professional knowledge and practical experience of Captain Symonds had been of the greatest possible utility to the service, and the late Board of Admiralty were deserving of the best thanks of the country for employing him. Captain Symonds had been of the greatest service to the country, by his construction of many of our new ships of war; and although he (Captain Pechell) differed from him in some points, he must say, that the ships to which he alluded were, in point of equipment, speed, and capacity, fit to go to any part of the world and were a credit to England.
 Sir Henry Parnell supported the Motion. Having had considerable experience in such matters, he undertook to say, that it was impossible for the House generally, and especially for new Members to do justice to their constituents in sifting the multifarious details of the estimates in a Committee of the whole House, while it would greatly contribute to the satisfactory arrangement of the general business, and more particularly with reference to matters of expense, if the rule was laid down and the practice established of referring the estimates to a Committee up stairs. There was no instance of the Representative system of Government being of late years introduced where the principle had not been adopted of sending all details of money transactions to such tribunals before they were brought under the general consideration of the Legislature. This was the true and proper course to be pursued, and which had indeed been fol-
 1042
 Sir James Graham could not think it consistent with his duty to remain silent on the present occasion. While, on the one hand, he could not but deprecate those preliminary discussions, which the hon. Member for Middlesex had introduced with so much detail, as being extremely inconvenient and inconsistent with due expedition in transacting the general business of the country; yet, on the other, he was as deeply convinced that discussions in Committee of the whole House, of the particular items in the estimates, was the most satisfactory mode which could possibly be adopted, because of the publicity which they thereby necessarily obtained. He was no longer a Member of the executive Government, and therefore, his opinion was quite disinterested; but if he wished the details passed slightly over—if he wished to conceal a job, to exclude the public from all knowledge of the mode in which the estimates were prepared, and the efficiency of the person by whom they were submitted, by far the most likely method of effecting those ends would be to have the estimates referred to a Select Committee upstairs. It was vain to dissemble that over the constitution of Committees of that House, the executive Government, supported by a majority, must practically exercise a commanding influence. And the public being excluded from its inquiries, if there was anything wrong in the details, or any deficiency or delinquency on the part of the responsible officer, whose duty it was to prepare them, the best check would be practically lost in transferring the estimates from the Committee of the whole House to a Committee up-stairs. The
 1043 1044 l., Hansard's Debates, l. 1045 l.
 Sir James Graham said, there were formerly five yachts, but now, as we understood him, there were only three employed.
 Sir James Graham held himself responsible for the appointment of Captain Symonds, and from that responsibility he would not shrink. That gallant officer had built several vessels of a small class, but the largest vessel constructed upon his plan was a frigate of the fourth-rate. It was true that there were now building two seventy-fours and one first-rate. The excellence of the ships had, however, been demonstrated to the satisfaction of every individual competent to form a judgment, and he (Sir James Graham) was quite content to leave the question of the propriety of the appointment of Captain Symonds, and the benefit thereby conferred upon the naval service of this country, to the judgment of the gallant Admiral (Sir George Cockburn) who had commanded the  Vernon, l. l.,
 Sir James Graham said, that the ships were not laid down upon Captain Symonds's principle without good advice and knowledge of its effect. Before taking any decisive step, he had taken the opinion and advice of Sir Thomas Hardy, Sir William Parker, Sir J. Rowley, and the House had heard the sentiments of the gallant Admiral, the Member for Devonport. As to a Committee of this House trying a technical question, the idea was preposterous; but he was willing to leave the decision of the question to Sir George Cockburn, who was about to come to the Admiralty, and who would certainly be an impartial judge of Captain Symonds's merits. He would have abundant materials whereon to found his judgment, for there was hardly a station in any part of the world in which there was not now a ship built by Captain Symonds; and the largest frigate he had built was now in the Mediterranean, where it would sail in competition, not only with the whole of the English squadron, but probably with many foreign ships. By the end of the year, therefore, reports whereon to found a sound opinion would be received at the Admiralty from every quarter of the globe.
 Sir John Hobhouse allowed, that it was inexpedient to establish such a precedent as had been alluded to by the hon. Baronet, the Member for the University of Oxford; but the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer must admit the fault did not rest with the Gentlemen on his side of the House, but arose from what the hon. Member for the University might depend upon it would be the fruitful source of much more evil than had hitherto been seen—he meant from the Ministers of the Crown attempting to govern the country by a minority. If the Ministers of the Crown were in possession of the common confidence of the House—he meant if they were able to wield a majority, not large in itself, but still one available for the purpose of carrying on the Government, no such catastrophe as that which the hon. Member for the University of Oxford had alluded to could possibly occur, because when the Prime Minister made or sanctioned an appointment, he would know that, let Members talk against it as much as they pleased, when it came to the important point—namely, the vote, the majority would be with him. In consequence, however, of the position—he must take the liberty of saying the false position—in which the right hon. Baronet had placed himself, in consequence of his trying the almost unheard of experiment of carrying on the Government of the country whilst in an acknowledged minority in that House, the event which the hon. Member for Oxford deprecated had occurred. Some hon. Gentlemen laughed when he spoke of the right hon. Baronet being in a minority, but he did not see a smile upon the face of the right hon. Baronet and his colleagues; they knew that he was not exaggerating, because it was a matter with respect to which they had had two or three proofs since the meeting of Parliament. He begged leave to say, that he looked upon the course taken by the House, not so much as a vote personally against the Marquess of Londonderry, as another proof that the hon. Gentlemen
 1027
 Sir Robert Inglis: Whatever opinions may have been expressed on Friday, there is no one who has heard what has passed to-night, but will cordially concur in the sentiment expressed by the hon. Member for Middlesex, that the Marquess of Londonderry has raised his character by the step he has just taken. I should not have obtruded myself on the notice of the House even for a few minutes, if I did not feel that the precedent of Friday night, followed up by the conduct of the noble Marquess, is pregnant with great danger to the Constitution. If the expression of the opinion of the House in a formal Address to the Throne had produced this result, I should be the last person to deny that the constitutional exercise of the prerogative of the Crown might have been employed to cancel the appointment. I should have thought such a course unfortunate; but it is still more unfortunate that a mere conversation, expressing the disapprobation of the House of an individual in whom the Crown (whether wisely or not is another question) had reposed confidence, should have produced the same effect. The King is thus deprived of the services of an individual selected as Ambassador to St. Petersburgh, for no reason that appears on the votes and journals of the House. If a mere discussion like that of Friday last can fetter the discretion of the Crown, it is a state of things deeply to be regretted. Although
 1025
 Sir Samuel Whalley said, the right hon. Gentleman had furnished the best argument in support of the present Motion. He said it was not necessary, if they had confidence in the Government. Now, he for one, did not think that the Government
 1040 1041 [Cries of "No, no."]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the Motion with which he should on this occasion conclude, would have for its object to effect the settlement of a great and important question, which was of great consequence to the public, and which interested a large portion of the community. It was a question which had been for a long time unsettled, and to settle which
 1074 1075 1076 1077 1078 1079 s. d. bonâ fide 1080 1081 1082 1083 v. per verba de præsenti, facie ecclesiæ." per verba de présenti per verba de futuro; 1084
 Dr. Lushington  stated, that an Act had been passed to legalize marriages performed in India by Presbyterian ministers.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was not aware of that fact. He might extend his former remarks to the state of the marriage law in Newfoundland; but he thought he had said enough to show that the whole state of the Marriage Act required review and revision. In some of our dependencies, and even in this empire, it was far from being in a satisfactory state. Having said thus much of the general principles on which he proposed to proceed, he would now proceed to explain the enactments which his Bill would include. It would be recollected that the Dissenters had objected to the Bill of the noble Lord opposite, because it required the publication of bans in churches by ministers of the Established Church. The present method of notifying the intentions of Dissenters to contract a marriage with one of their own community was repugnant to the feelings of the Dissenters, but if he could
 1085 1086 1087 1088 1089
 Lord John Russell  having been the person to introduce the Bill for the relief of Dissenters, into the last Parliament, could not let the question be put without making a few observations on the subject. In the first place, he would allude to the Bill which was brought in last year, and which turned out to be unsatisfactory to those whom it was intended to relieve. A great many objections were made to it, some of which he thought were well founded, while others were, in his opinion, captious; but such were their nature that, altogether, he found it impossible to proceed with the Bill; he, therefore, withdrew it. The field, consequently, was entirely open to the right hon. Gentleman; and he felt bound to say, that the spirit in which the right hon. Gentleman had proposed his measure, was most liberal and kind, and which, he trusted, would always prevail in the future discussions on this measure, and which would be found more advantageous in legislating on this subject, than by pursuing the course which had hitherto been followed. He admitted the value of many of the suggestions of the right hon. Baronet; but he thought it would be going too far, if he then attempted to follow the right hon. Baronet into the details of the measure which he had brought forward. He wished, in the first place, that the Bill should go forth to the world, and should be fairly considered by the Protestant Dissenters; and he hoped, when they had done so, that they would fairly and openly state their opinions on the subject. If they objected to it, that they would state their objections in such a reasonable manner, as to entitle them to the serious consideration of the House, and not meet it in a spirit of opposition, but in such a way that their just wishes could be best satisfied. There-
 1093
 Dr. Lushington  wished to understand whether, when two persons were married in the manner proposed by the Bill, ques-
 1094
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the form of oath to be taken by the party ran thus:—"I, A. B., do swear that I am not a member of the United Church of England and Ireland, and that I have lived in the parish for so many days; that I am so many years old, a bachelor or widower (as the case might be), and that I know of no other impediment, kindred, or alliance, which is an obstacle to this engagement.
 Dr. Lushington  did not think, as the measure did not embrace a provision for one of the parties being a member of the Church of England, and the other not, that it would give entire satisfaction. No one could hail with greater pleasure than he did, the adoption of the main principle of the Bill. In 1827, he had taken the liberty of stating to Parliament, that it was utterly useless to introduce a Bill of this description, unless it was a Bill calculated to lead to entire satisfaction to Dissenters, and that the only mode of accomplishing that would be, by reducing the marriage ceremony to a civil contract. He was confident that if the right hon. Baronet had adopted his noble Friend's Bill, or, indeed, the principle of any other such measure, which had been attempted to be brought forward for some time past, he would have found himself involved in inextricable difficulties, and given satisfaction to no one. When he expressed his entire approbation of the main principle of this measure, he was at the same time bound to state, he could not adopt all the reasonings which the right hon. Baronet had taken the trouble of going into, in introducing the Bill. He could not altogether agree with him as to what was the principle of the marriage law in former periods. He should have been reluctant to mention this, unless aware that from the circumstance of the debates in that House becoming publicly and universally known in the country, it was more desirable he should state his opinion now, than that he should leave it to be uttered out of doors, where it could not receive the full response that it was calculated to meet with by being expressed in the House of Commons. In ancient times, though a marriage was good and valid, although not celebrated before a
 1095 per verba in præsenti, in facie ecclesiæ. in facie ecclesiæ, 1096
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that his only object in rising was to notice briefly the few observations which had been made in reference to the intended Bill, lest they might have the effect of prejudicing it, either with hon. Members or with the great body of the Dissenters. He never felt more satisfied of anything than that he could succeed in convincing any reasonable body of Dissenters that the tendency of the Bill would not be to establish any invidious distinctions—that there was nothing in the Bill which could prove in the least objectionable to Dissenters, excepting that which must, under all circumstances be inseparable from dissent. From the fair and liberal spirit in which the whole proposition had been met, he felt he had little more to do than express his confident hope, that practical grievance was about to be met by a practical and effectual remedy. There were objections, he was aware, to almost any view of the subject, and he had attempted to meet them in such a manner as should not shock the feelings of either party. His impression was, that if members of the establishment were satisfied with the present state of the law, that they should not be interfered with. Some hon. Gentlemen in that House might say, "put the law on another footing—put it on a civil footing." But for his own part he could say that he never had heard from anybody belonging to the Church of England, or from any of the leaders of the great bodies of Dissenters, a desire to dispense with the religious solemnity. If he were to be required to declare that this solemnity should or might be dispensed with for the members of the Established Church, he certainly did think it would savour of that intolerance which was condemned by the Dissenter, for it would seem that that Dissenter not only looked for relief for himself, but expected that the Government should make an alteration in the ceremonies of others, and accommodate them to the relief granted to him. He could assure the hon. Gentleman opposite, that, so far from having a wish to put the Dissenters on a different footing, his anxiety was, if possible, to have made the ceremony a religious one. But he found that there were great difficulties in the way of this arrangement. If all classes of Dissenters entertained the same feelings and opinions on the subject, the settlement would have been extremely easy; but was this the case? And, there-
 1116 1117 1118
 Mr. Alderman Wood  moved for leave to bring in a Bill for the better regulation of cabriolets and other hackney carriages, or of omnibuses and other stage carriages for short distances, used in and near the metropolis, and of the drivers and attendants thereof.
 Colonel Sibthorpe  supported the Motion. The misconduct and ill-manners of omnibus cads and cab drivers was grown to an extraordinary height as he knew from personal experience, and if it were not checked would be quite unbearable.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  observed, that a great depression of trade had taken place all along the line from Charing-cross to the Bank in consequence of these vehicles and the conduct of their drivers. He did not wish to see them suppressed, but only to have the drivers placed under some effectual control.
 Mr. Alderman Wood,  in reply, said, that those who knew him would admit that he was one who had always sympathized with the poor, and would not interfere with their comforts or conveniences. It was said, that the City of London should interfere. The object of his Bill was, to give to the Magistrates of London, and of the metropolis, the power of so doing effectually. The City laid out 4,000 l.
 Mr. Baring  said, he was glad the right hon. Baronet had undertaken to bring this subject under the consideration of the House. He was sure, that no Member could have brought it forward with a greater certainty of obtaining the confidence of the House, and of every Member of his Majesty's Government, and, consequently, with a better prospect of making the measure efficient and beneficial. He hoped that all the benefit would be derived from it which these circumstances promised. He was sure that there was no person old enough to examine the history of the last war, but must see that it would be impossible for this country, in the event of another naval war, with the present habits and feelings of the people, to repeat the mode of manning our navy, which was practised at former periods. Every man must feel this impossibility, not only on account of the great abhorrence with which the system of impressment was regarded, but because the first gun that was fired, must involve us in a war with that country, with which, of all others, it was most desirable that we should remain at peace—he meant the United States of America; for it was impossible to expect that any nation, possessing a feeling of independence, or having a character at stake, would submit to the measures that were resorted to with so much rigour, during the last war. This was, therefore, not a question of speculation, but a question, which it was of importance, that the country should look in the face, and it certainly was desirable that whatever changes were expedient, should be made in a period of profound peace. Amongst the many obligations which the country owed to the right hon. Baronet, for the services rendered by him in the departments of which he had had the administration, there was none equal to what
 1129
 Captain Berkeley,  as holding his Majesty's commission in the service, felt it to be due to the right hon. Baronet to tender his thanks for these measures, and to express his readiness to go hand in hand with him in carrying them into full effect.
 Captain Gordon  wished every possible success to the measures, but at the same time, he could not conceal from himself that registration was a subject of great difficulty. He rejoiced, however, to find from what had just fallen from the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, that the assistance of his Majesty's Government would be afforded, and that, therefore, the subject would receive the support of both sides of the house.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  was ready and willing to render every assistance in forwarding the objects which the right hon. Baronet had in view. He, however, must observe, that the Bill relating to the registration and to the merchant service would, of necessity, entail a burden upon the shipping interests, to which he could only agree upon receiving the equivalent relief afforded by the abolition of impressment. He must, therefore, make it a condition, that both measures should pass together into laws. He felt peculiar satisfaction on learning that the right hon. Baronet was to have the sanction and support of his
 1130
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  felt great gratification upon the introduction of these measures. He also could fully corroborate the statement which had been made by the hon. Member for Tynemouth, inasmuch as he had himself held an interview a short time since, with a large body of seamen, from whom he distinctly understood that, however great they felt the evils of impressment, they would, even under it, ever be ready to enter into a temporary period of service under the Crown. This was highly creditable to the parties concerned. He thought the system, however, ought to be abolished, and he therefore fully participated in the satisfaction so generally expressed upon the introduction of measures, which would have the effect of relieving the service from so prejudicial a course of proceeding.
 Sir Philip Durham  said, that no First Lord of the Admiralty had ever made greater improvements in the service, and with more economy, than the right hon. Baronet. He thought highly of the right hon. Baronet's measure regarding registration, and hoped it would succeed, but was happy that he had not given up impressment. The gallant Officer opposite said he preferred one volunteer to two pressed men, but he himself always preferred one pressed man. In time of war, the most able, the most hearty, and the most useful men, were the Pressed men, and, in four
 1131
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  congratulated the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the spirit in which the Bill had been received by that House. In spite of some slight indications of objection from the hon. Member for Southwark and one or two other Members, he still ventured to hope that by the country and the Dissenters themselves the measure would be received, if not as entirely coming up to their expectations, at the least as indicating the best spirit on the part of the Government to give them all the relief which it was possible to administer, with a due consideration to the feelings of the Members of the Established Church. With respect to Dissenters' grievances, a very strong feeling undoubtedly prevailed in that part of the country with which he was more immediately connected (the Wrest Riding of Yorkshire), but it certainly did not amount to any desire at all to infringe or trench upon the feelings of the establishment; and it was with great pleasure, therefore, he understood from the statement of the right hon. Baronet, that as far as the Members of the Church of England were concerned, and who were attached to the ceremony of marriage, as now religiously celebrated, no change was intended. There was some difficulty in finding out measures by which the mode of solemnization and registration might be made in some degree uniform, and at the same time perfectly safe for all the varied interests of property; and, therefore, he trusted that on a subject so intimately connected with religion, and so likely to excite the strongest passions and prejudices of the people, there would be evinced on all hands a spirit of mutual concession and conciliation, in order that they might be enabled to legislate with safety and effect. Without going into the details of the measure, he might be permitted to observe, that in his mind there was no very serious obstacle in the case stated, where one of the parties was a Member of the Established Church, and the other a Dissenter. He could not but allude to the concluding observation made by the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Dr. Lushington) as the only allusion in the spirit of party which had been made in the course of the evening,
 1105
 Mr. Aaron Chapman,  as the representative of a seaport, congratulated the House and the country, that the period had arrived when a measure so essential, so politic, and so necessary for the naval service, was about to be carried into effect.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  was understood strongly to dissent from the proposition, that there existed, by the constitution, a prerogative right in the Crown to impress men for the naval service. No such right, he contended, existed, except only in such cases as might render it necessary for all the subjects of the realm to take arms.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that he felt very deeply on this subject. It was known to many that in the place he had the honour of representing there originated, last year, that cry for the voluntary principle which went abroad and increased to a demand for the separation of the Church from the State, of which so much had been heard. He had never hesitated in public or in private to express his entire dissent from that doctrine, although he had always stated to that large body of Dissenters who formed a considerable part of his constituents, that it would be his most earnest endeavour to aid them in all measures which should relieve them from all those grievances of which they justly complained. Entertaining those feelings, he had certainly heard with great satisfaction the speech of the right hon. Baronet. He hailed with great pleasure the great principles there laid down; and although it would be necessary for him to know the details of the measure before he could express his unqualified approbation of it, yet, as the details would no doubt be completely in conformity with the principles which had been described, he could not but feel persuaded, that the grievances of the Dissenters upon this particular point would be greatly removed. He differed conscientiously from his hon. Friend behind him (Mr. Cutlar Fergusson) as to his observation of marriage requiring no religious ceremony, but that it ought to be a purely civil contract. He conceived, that if the marriage ceremony was accompanied by religious rites it was more likely to be considered binding, and be sacredly observed. In the plan proposed, therefore, by the right hon. Baronet, whilst he admitted the principle so fully, whilst he endeavoured to make it perfectly sufficient for the Dissenters, whilst he remedied the grievance of forcing parties to
 1101
 Mr. Harvey  felt assured that this Bill would be received by those for whose relief it was intended with the same
 1102 1103 1104
 Mr. David Barclay  expressed his approbation of the proposed measure — a measure which he believed would he highly satisfactory to his constituents, who were deeply interested in the matter.
 Mr. Baines  wished to unite his tribute of acknowledgment to the right hon. Baronet at the head of his Majesty's government, for the friendly spirit towards the Protestant Dissenters in which this measure was conceived and for the clear and satisfactory manner in which he had conveyed his sentiments to the House. He did not think that there would be felt amongst the Protestant Dissenters any objection to the Bill, as far as related to constituting marriage a civil contract, or to the registration of their marriages through the medium of the magistrates; but there might be objections to some of the details; though those, he hoped, might without much difficulty, be removed. He was afraid that there might be a jealousy created throughout the community, by requiring that the marriages of some should be celebrated by a religious ratification, whereas with others that it should be only a civil contract. To give the greater solemnity to marriage, in all cases, he thought that some religious service ought to be engrafted upon the civil contract, and that the service should be performed by the minister of the religious body to whom the parties were attached. With regard to the registry at the parish church, he hoped that this was to be considered a temporary, and not a permanent arrangement, subject to alteration by a general registry bill; because, as a permanent measure, he did not think that it would be satisfactory to the Protestant Dissenters that their marriages should be required to pass through the register of the Established Church. He knew that a strong feeling existed on this point amongst the persons whose grievances this Bill was intended to redress, and that they considered it as an implied admission of subserviency or inferiority to the Church with which they claimed an equality of privileges. The charges mentioned by the right hon. Gentleman were also open to objection. To persons in humble life the fee of seven shillings would be considered unduly high, and would operate as a barrier against the poorer classes availing themselves of the privilege of marriage according to the proposed form. There was another topic on which he wished to make an inquiry. What was to be done when the parties contracting marriage were of different re-
 1098
 Mr. George Young  said, that he should have so many opportunities, in future stages of these Bills, of discussing, at length, their details, that it was not his intention, at present, to trouble the House further than to express the heartfelt gratification, with which he had heard the announcement of these measures by the right hon. Baronet opposite. He must also hear his sincere testimony to the fact, that the right hon. Baronet had taken the right
 1126
 Mr. Warburton  said, that the obstructions caused by the carriages of ladies and gentlemen before the doors of the leading shopkeepers were as great nuisances as any caused by the vehicles which plied for hire. He hoped the House would look with jealousy on such measures as the present.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that the proposed measure was a Bill for the relief of Dissenters, and it completely fulfilled its object. If any parties had a right to complain, it was the members of the Church of England. As to what had been said on the subject of oaths, he could not help observing that oaths taken before Magistrates were quite as likely to be held binding as before a clergyman.
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that as the House had done him the honour and kindness to give him a considerable portion of its attention on this subject, at a former period, he should not now occupy its time for many minutes; but he felt that he should not do his duty to the House, if he did not express his satisfaction at the general view of this question which had been so clearly and so ably laid before the House by the right hon. Baronet. There was no doubt that we must look to the mercantile marine, as the great nursery of the British navy, and that the means by which His Majesty's fleets must be manned, in case of emergency, must consist in an improvement of the condition and regulations of that branch of maritime pursuits, and an efficient system of regis-
 1127 1128
 Mr. Kennedy  believed that the present measure would be more unpalatable to the Dissenters than that of the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) last year. The objections which the Dissenters entertained to that Bill affected only its details—such as the necessity of a publication of the bans and a connexion with the Establishment by the mode of registration proposed; the present measure was objectionable in detail—it went to draw a line of demarcation between the Dissenters and the members of the Church—to establish two kinds of marriages, one of a civil, and one of a religious character—and to degrade the Dissenting clergy by placing them in a position of inferiority, of which they would justly complain.
 Mr. Praed  said, that if ever he had heard a speech perfectly kind in its tendency, it was the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Halifax. It did not, therefore, require the remark which had been applied to it by the hon. and learned Member for Liverpool. Compliments had been passed, to which he had listened with the greatest delight, from the other side of the House, as to the spirit with which the measure now under consideration had been introduced; and he could fairly imitate an example set him, and with perfect justice return those compliments. With respect to the objections which had been urged against the Bill of his right hon. Friend, he should take leave to answer a few of them. The first was that urged by the hon. Member for Leeds, respecting the payment of the fee to the clergyman. He should be borne out, he believed, by the House when he replied, that this was not a ground of religious objection, and, therefore, on that topic it was no objection at all. The next objection was, that urged by the hon. Member for Kircudbright, that the ceremony of marriage was to be celebrated in the presence of a third party. Now the hon. Member was a lawyer, as well as a
 1109
 Dr. Bowring  hoped that the valuable time of the House would not be occupied with such frivolous legislation as the present—that it would not turn its attention from more important affairs to matters which the city Magistrates could take care of. If such matters as the present were made subjects of legislation, he agreed with the hon. Member for Bath, that the poor would have just cause to complain of an interference with their comforts, while those of the rich were left undisturbed.
 Mr. Roebuck  defended the drivers, and declared that he had seen no want of civility or attention on their part, and
 1119
 Mr. Roebuck  complained of the slur which the noble Lord (Sandon) had attempted to throw on the theories of some hon. Members whom he chose to designate the philosophers in that house, and maintained, on the part of the Dissenters, an equal right to all civil privileges with every other class of his Majesty's subjects. With respect to marriage, the right hon. Baronet had incontestably argued, that there was no reason why the state should regard it as other than a civil contract; and if that were so, why did it not apply as well to the Churchman as to the Dissenter? If, in the latter case, it was left to the right feelings of the individual to superadd any religious sanction he thought proper, why should not the same course be adopted with respect to the Churchman? Why, then, was all this outcry got up? —Why this bugbear stalking in the person of the noble Lord about trenching on the religious feelings and principles of the people? With respect to marriages being registered by the clergyman, he did not think it should form any objection on the part of the Dissenters. Nothing could be
 1108
 Mr. Wilks  felt bound, on the part of the Protestant Dissenters, to thank the right hon. Baronet for the tone and manner in which he had brought the subject forward, and proposed to effect a change in a matter which every member of the Church must feel to be of the deepest importance, and highly objectionable, as regarded the ministers of the Church. The early and strict attention given to the subject by the right hon. Baronet, added much to the feeling of obligation which he, on the part of the Dissenters, entertained. All the body to which he alluded would deeply feel, that, notwithstanding the immense variety of objects which must necessarily have occupied the attention of the right hon. Gentleman, that, unsolicited by them, he had come forward with a view of making arrangements in matters which had been so long complained of by them as grievances. He should not do justice to his feelings towards his Parliamentary Friends, to whom the Dissenters were under such deep obligations for their exertions to get rid of the Test and Corporation Acts, which were felt by them not merely as a conscientious, but as a great political degradation, if he did not take the opportunity of thanking them for the measures brought forward last year, and above all, for that on the subject of Dissenters' marriages which was with-
 1090 1091 1092
 Mr. Philip Howard  took that early occasion to express his feelings of approbation at the measure which had now been so ably propounded, not only did he feel assured that it would give satisfaction to the large body of Protestant Dissenters—but to the Members of that Church to which he belonged, and from which all others had dissented, namely the Roman Catholic. Last session of Parliament he had concurred with the late Member for Beverley, Mr. Langdale, whose name he could now unfortunately utter without any breach of order; in the introduction of a Bill to legalise the marriages of Roman Catholics by their own Clergy. Upon that occasion he had experienced the difficulty of providing a strict and complete system of registration, so as to secure the rights and descent of property, without imposing penalties, which many of their clergy regarded with some degree of dismay. He again tendered the homage of his thanks to the right hon. Baronet which he did with the more satisfaction,as to him he was, under Providence,indebted for the removal
 1097
 Mr. Sheil  said, that the Gentlemen on his side of the House were loud and persevering in their praises of the measure of the right hon. Baronet, while those on the opposite side had not said a single word in its favour or against it. Among them he had looked in vain for any expression of approbation or disapprobation on the part of the Members for the Universities—those conservatories of everything salutary—but not a single symptom of either could he discover in their physiognomies. However, all pleasantry apart, he thought there was good in the Bill, mixed up with much that was permanently and in its nature objectionable. The clergyman for doing nothing except registering the marriage of two parties, was to have 5 s., 1110 s.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  did not think the principle which ought to guide the Legislature, would be fully established until the marriage ceremony was made altogether a civil contract. Marriage, in his opinion, had nothing to do with a religious ceremony. That was his opinion, marriage ought to be a matter of civil contract, and of civil contract alone so far as the State interfered with it, leaving it, if it were required, to the parties marrying to celebrate it by any religious ceremony they might think proper. He could not agree with his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for the Towel Hamlets, as to what the law of England was previous to the Marriage Act. It had been well laid down by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer that marriage was then a mere civil contract; and there could be no doubt at all that a marriage formed by such civil contract was good and valid. Such a marriage did not bring up all the questions of legi-
 1099 1100
 Mr. Ingham  maintained, that the prerogative of the Crown involved the right of impressment, and that for the protection of the country, the monarch could call for the services of all lieges in the land. The question had been laboriously investigated some years ago, and the opinion of Mr. Justice Foster fully established the existence of this prerogative. He had recently met a large body of men, engaged in the merchant service, and was struck with admiration upon bearing the manly, judicious, and loyal spirit, with which they discussed the obnoxious subject of impressment, and admitted its necessity. He
 1132
 Mr. Lennard  highly approved of the temper and spirit in which this measure had been introduced, and lie hoped that
 1106
 Mr. Estcourt  said, he had thought it might not have been necessary for him to make any observations upon this question, as his right hon. Friend had stated, that his object was to bring forward a measure for the remedy of an inconvenience or a grievance, as it was termed, which seemed to call for the interference of the Legislature; but after some comments, which had come from the other side, he could not content himself with giving a silent vote. Concurring, as he did, in all that had been said by the hon. and learned Gentleman
 1112
 Mr. William Gladstone  thought, that it
 1120
 Mr. Ewart  observed, that while the hon. Member for Halifax (Mr. S. Wortley) deprecated the tone assumed by the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Dr. Lushington) he seemed pretty much to have followed the course he deprecated, though on the other side of the question. With respect to the measure itself, it would have been more permanently satisfactory, had the right hon. Baronet declared that for Churchmen and Dissenters marriage should hereafter be a civil contract; they might add, if they pleased, a religious ceremony, but the House should content itself with restoring the old law of England, as it existed during the time of the Commonwealth, and till the Marriage Bill was introduced. That any distinction should still prevail between Churchmen and Dissenters he very much regretted, however formal, shadowy, and unsubstantial, it might appear to be; but he was fully convinced, that the time was near at hand when that distinction, of how evanescent soever a character it might appear, would no longer exist. Another great objection arose from the necessity there would be of going before the Magistrates frequently, as they were connected with the Church of England. Two great Amendments must shortly take place with respect to the system of the Magistrates—in the first place, that they should be stipendiary; and next, that they should not be clerical. He hoped the day was fast approaching when in this country, as in all other civilized communities, there would be one civil officer for registrations, and when carrying into effect the recommendations of the Committee of which the
 1107
 Admiral Adam  observed, that he had said, last Session, that he was prepared to hear the arguments brought forward, and to see the effects of the measure which his right hon. Friend, the Member for Cumberland, intended to bring forward, before he, as a naval officer, would vote against impressment, because he knew that circumstances might arise when it would be necessary to resort to impressment for the purpose of manning the King's fleet, in order to resist the foreign foe. Until some efficient measure for manning the fleet could be substituted, we must not throw away impressment. But, knowing the disadvantages of that system, he hailed with satisfaction the measure of his right hon. Friend; and the amelioration and amendment it had undergone since the last Parliament, with great care and attention to the details, he had no doubt that the measure would conduce to put an end to the grievous evil of impressment for the King's naval service. He desired this, not only as a citizen of this country, but also as a naval officer, because be knew that the old adage was true, and that "one volunteer is worth two pressed men." He would beg leave to call the attention of the House to the amelioration of the system of impressment which had taken place towards the end of last war. At first, men were kept in their ships, from five years to five years, and from ten years to ten years, and they had not the means of visiting their friends when they came to England, after an absence of many years, but towards the end of the war they received a portion of what was due to them, and were allowed some weeks absence. These relaxations had produced the best possible effect.
 Sir James Graham  rose, pursuant to the notice he had given, to move for leave to bring in a "Bill to amend and consolidate the laws relating to the merchant seamen of the united kingdom, and for forming and maintaining a register of all the men engaged in that service." Also, for a "Bill for the encouragement of the voluntary enlistment of seamen; and to make regulations for more effectually manning his Majesty's navy." The right hon. Baronet said, that he should be inexcusable if, after the length of time during which the House had been occupied in the discussion of an important measure that evening, he should trouble them at any great length. He apprehended that no opposition would be made to the Motions of which he had given notice; and he would, therefore, detain the House as shortly as possible. He would make only one observation before he proceeded to the details of his measures, which was, that when he considered the difficulties of the subject with which he had to deal, he thought some excuse was necessary for his undertaking it, especially when he brought it forward without the adventitious aid of official authority, and even without knowing whether it would be supported or not; but, nevertheless, having stated to the hon. Member for Sheffield, on the
 1121 1122 1123 1124 l., l. 1125
 Sir John Campbell  concurred in all that had fallen from both sides of the house in praise of the Bill of the right hon. Baronet. He believed the measure to be one brought forward in the true spirit of liberality, and he also believed that it would give great satisfaction to the Dissenting portion of the community. Having stated what he conceived would be the general impression of the country, he was bound to state his own private impression. For the first time a distinction was made by it between the followers of the Church of England and the Dissenters in regard to the manner in which marriage should be celebrated. Such a distinction was quite unprecedented in the annals of the country. Previous to Lord Hardwick's Act, marriage could be celebrated by mutual recognition— per verba de præsenti 1113 in limine. 1114
 The Attorney-General  said, that the reason no one on his side of the House spoke on the Bill, was their perfect concurrence with its principle, while the necessity for their doing so was likewise obviated by the unequivocal testimony borne to its merits by the side of the House on which the hon. and learned Member for Tipperary sat. Both sides appeared to be of agreement on its principle, and there was no objection taken to any portion of it except its details, which were properly the province of the Committee. The hon. Member for Tipperary had alluded to the Universities, as if they were opposed to all Reform. Now he (the Attorney-General) was connected with the Universities by holding high office, and therefore felt as strongly with them as it was possible to feel; yet what did he say on an occasion
 1111
 Sir John Wrottesley  thought that there was as much danger to the public from the driving of the cabriolets and carriages of the rich as from that of cabs and omnibusses.
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  thought the subject was one which called for the interference of Parliament. Deputations of traders and others had waited on the Secretary of the Home Department, complaining of annoyance and the interruption of their business by the stopping of those cabs and omnibusses before their doors. He would support the Motion, and he hoped the Bill would attain its object.
 Mr. Clay  said, it was not in the power of the police to regulate these matters. He would admit that there was in that House too great a disposition to legislate in matters which interfered with the comforts of the poor, but he did not think the present was one of that description.
 Lord Sandon  rose to explain. He did not very well know the ground of those pretensions which the hon. Member for Bath seemed to entertain, of giving lectures in that House on arrogance and acrimony. He was quite willing to leave the matter to the decision of the House; all that he had stated was, that the feelings of the people ought to be consulted, and not the vague theories of philosophers on what had certainly not been represented as a practical grievance by any petition to that House.
 Lord Sandon  said, that while the people of this country were not by any means prepared to see the plans of certain theoretic philosophers carried out in that House to their full extent, he thought this Bill would give great satisfaction to Dissenters, while it left the general feelings of the great mass of the people attached to the Established Church not in any degree wounded or impaired by detaching the ceremony of marriage as a civil contract in their case from the sanctions of religion. He thought it was the duty of the House to legislate in such cases with the view of meeting acknowledged grievances on the part of Dissenters, without interference with the feelings of the bulk of the community connected with the National Establishment, while providing for the security of property involved in the proper authentication of the marriage contract.
 Colonel Bruen said, that he could not allow this petition to be placed upon the Table without making a few observations on the allegations contained in it, and the
 1137 "County of Carlow to wit: "Deponent further swears, that this declaration had scarcely passed the priest's lips when a movement took place by some people near the chapel door, towards the steps of the gallery, when Edward Mulligan, the only freeholder in the chapel who opposed the priest's party at the late election for the said county, was then sitting, but who were prevented, as deponent believes, attacking the said freeholder by a person who stood at the foot of the steps of the gallery; but as soon as the priest turned round to quit the altar, a simultaneous rush was made up the gallery where the said freeholder, Edward Mulligan, was, and who in an instant was dragged off his knees, thrown down the stairs, nearly twenty feet high, and totally ejected from the chapel, and, when outside, pelted with stones, and otherwise assaulted: and had it not been for the humane and manly conduct of some of the people of Borris, deponent verily believes the consequences would have been probably fatal to the said Mulligan. "Deponent further swears, that the whole of this disgraceful scene was perpetrated in consequence of the encouragement held out by the aforesaid priest, viz. that he would raise a fund for the purpose of paying the fines inflicted by the Magistrates upon those persons found guilty of assaults (as deponent verily believes) on those freeholders who opposed the priest's party at the late election for the
 1138 Speaker
 Mr. O'Connell begged to call the attention of
 1139 1140
 Mr. O'Connell implored the House not to hand this matter over to the decision of an Election Committee. He implored the House, for the sake of justice, to hear such witnesses as were then ready to be sworn at the Bar. They were ready to depose to the fact of a distinct declaration having been made with respect to the abandonment of the petition. If the ballot were to take place, and a Committee be appointed, his whole case would depend on the decision to which six Gentlemen of the Committee might come, as to the construction of an Act of Parliament, which was read differently by different lawyers. Why should he be placed in such jeopardy as that? He moved that Sir R. Sidney be called to the Bar.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer said, that it appeared to him that the House having fixed a given day for the ballot, the sitting Member was bound by that decision, under all circumstances but one, and that was a voluntary communication, by which he was put off his guard. If that fact were established, or if the hon. and learned Member  bonâ fide
 Mr. Ruthven said, he was present when the declaration referred to, had been made by the agent of the petitioners, who had
 1144
 Mr. O'Connell said, it was necessary the House should be in possession of the facts, and the first fact to be ascertained was, whether the agent for the petitioners did a week ago make a voluntary statement that he had abandoned the petition of the 4th of March, for the prosecution of which he had now put in sureties. Four persons were present when that declaration was made, two of whom, namely, the agent and his clerk, were ready to depose to the fact, whilst he and his hon. colleague would confirm their evidence, by stating that an unconditional, unequivocal abandonment of the petition, had been volunteered. The truth of the statement he had made to the House, was confirmed by what had fallen from the right hon., the Recorder of Dublin. Why should the opposing agent, talk of providing a new set of sureties, if one had not failed? The right hon. Gentleman said, that a notice was posted on Saturday, stating that the opposite party would proceed with the petition of the 4th of March, and yet the objection to the sureties was not taken till Monday. It would be positively sworn, that on Monday even the opposing agent declared, that the petition of the 4th of March, was abandoned. In consequence he had, as he before stated, countermanded the attendance of his principal agent and witnesses, and he had abstained from preparing the statement, and the lists which must be exchanged on the day the ballot took place. A consultation of counsel for the purpose of preparing the statement, had been appointed to take place on Tuesday, but was postponed, in consequence of it being understood that the petition would not be prosecuted. If the House should, under these circumstances, refuse to postpone the ballot, it would amount to an absolute denial of justice. As to the statement which the opposing agent had made to the House, through the right hon. Gentleman, he thought that a man who had acted as he had done, was not so faith-worthy as should induce the House to credit his bare assertion.
 Mr. Baring observed, that as the hon. and learned Member for Edinburgh had stated his wish that the Bill should be referred to a Committee up stairs, and he did not wish to multiply discussions, he would reserve the statement of his opinions on the principle of the Bill till the time of the Speaker's leaving the Chair for the House to go into Committee, supposing the Bill to be now read a second time without discussion. If the hon. and learned Member had no objection to his taking that course, he would then say nothing further than that when this Bill was brought before the House on another occasion, he was apprehensive that the result would be great danger to the trade of the country, and as his opinions were not altered, he felt a difficulty added to the subject by the situation which he had the
 1148
 Mr. Baring observed, that whatever serious doubts he might have on the details of the measure before the House, he could not but do justice to the benevolent intentions of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had originated it. No one who knew the hon. and learned Gentleman, but must feel convinced when he gave up professional time of so much value, that the hon. and learned Gentleman was himself persuaded of the importance of the measure. He would shortly state what were his apprehensions in the event of this measure becoming the law, at the same time reserving to himself the right of offering further objections at a future stage of the proceedings. They had not at present sufficiently gathered the opinion of practical men on the subject. The people generally, and the inhabitants of large manufacturing towns in particular, had experienced men on the subject; and he did not believe, that they were favourable to the measure. Although he did not participate in the feelings of the hon. Member for Knaresborough on the subject of  Doctrinaires 1149 prima facie 1150 1151 chevaliers d' industrie John Campbell: 1152
 Mr. Mark Phillips said, that it was impossible for any mercantile man not to see that the existing law was totally inconsistent with the interests even of those whom it affected to protect. He could say for himself, as a mercantile man, and he believed the mercantile body generally was slow to have recourse to imprisonment, that he had never deprived a man of his liberty on account of debt. There were, however, some provisions in the Bill of last year, that he thought were not approved of, although the principle was; but there would be ample opportunity of investigating those provisions in the Committee.
 Mr. O'Connell regretted that the Bill was not to extend to Ireland. He did not know if it might be so altered in Committee as to let Ireland have the benefit of it; but he doubted much that it could be so altered. If not, he would pledge
 1166
 Mr. Wallace objected to the Commission which recommended this Bill, as formed entirely of professional Gentlemen. Merchants and commercial men ought to have been included. He objected to the fees provided in the Bill. They were objectionable in every Court, and ought to be abolished. The learned Lord proposed to reduce eighteen clerks. He would submit, whether it would not be better at once to superannuate them.
 The Lord Advocate said, that his desire was as ardent as that of any other hon. Gentleman to afford relief to suitors by a considerable reduction of fees. His intention was to lay before the Committee, a statement of the whole case in which the present rate of fees would be set out on the one hand, and on the other, the standard to which he thought it would be proper to reduce them. In reference to the defects of the conveyancing laws he had to state that in a former Session he brought in Bills for the amendment of certain parts of the system, but although he earnestly endeavoured to get them passed into a law his exertions were not successful. He had not lost sight of the subject, and even now he was prepared to legislate upon it. But after the Government had appointed a Law Commission, whose duty it would be to report upon those defects, he thought they should wait for the opinions and recommendations of the Commissioners before they proceeded to legislate. He had written to them urging them to hasten their Report, and their reply was, that on every other subject but that of conveyancing their Report was prepared. That was a matter of considerable importance, which would require a very careful investigation, and, therefore, they could not promise an immediate completion of their Report.
 Mr. Murray said, considerable praise was due to the learned Lord for carrying out the recommendations of the Commissioners. He agreed with him, that the subject of fees would be most fitly considered by the Committee, and also that it would be advisable to wait for the result of the inquiries which the Commissioners were then making. With regard
 1169
 The Lord Advocate said, it was intended to refer the Bill also to a Select Committee.
 Mr. Wallace begged to say a few words in reference to the conveyancing law of Scotland, to which allusion was made on the former question. It was a most scandalous system—a barbarous relic of antiquity. The Report of the dilatory Commissioners ought not to be waited for. As they were unpaid it was not likely they would leave their personal engagements for the sake of the public; and their Report, he was assured, would not be completed till August, when any attempt to legislate on the subject would be useless and preposterous. He had four Bills already prepared, which had cost him much labour and expense, and he saw no reason why he should not offer them to the House, either to supersede the forthcoming recommendations of the
 1170
 The Lord Advocate explained that the amount had been limited to 8 l. s. d.
 Mr. O'Connell said, that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Norwich seemed very anxious about religious intimidation, and he must say, that such an anxiety well became the Representative of one of the immaculate corporate boroughs of England, every feeling of the electors of which was overcome by pounds, shillings, and pence. Oh, but the hon. Gentleman came from Norwich, where so much independence prevailed! No voter belonging to that borough was ever known to take a bribe, and it would, indeed, be as well for their Representative if no bribe was to be given. But the hon. Gentleman said, that the ballot was unmanly; that it was un-English. Now, was this the case? Was it not a common practice for the Committee of one candidate for an English borough to go to the voter and say to him, "Oh, our opponent gives only 3 l., l. s., 1176
 Mr. Goulburn deprecated such a discussion, and was of opinion, that Gentlemen would better consult the interests of the country by endeavouring to avoid them. For his part he approved of the Bill, and would endeavour to give every assistance in his power to prevent intimidation at elections. 
 Mr. O'Connell stated, that as the subject of which he had given notice was one of no small interest and importance, he should not have proposed to bring it forward at that late hour of the night, if he had not obtained the assent of the hon. and learned Gentlemen who were in the confidence of the Crown. His object was to obtain leave to bring in a Bill to amend tile Law of Libel. If he could so far obtain the consent of the House, his intention was to appoint a day at some fortnight's distance—a day that should be most convenient to the hon. and learned Gentlemen the Law Officers of the Crown—for the second reading; after which he should propose to refer the Bill to a Select Committee up-stairs, who should have power to report generally upon the Law of Libel. Such was the course he pro-
 1179 l., l., l. 1180 1181
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn regretted that a Bill of so much interest and importance had not been more fully detailed. He did not intend to oppose its introduction; but at the same time, he trusted the hon. and learned Gentleman would understand that the Government, by abstaining from any opposition at the present moment, did not intend to hold itself pledged to any of the principles or details of the measure not one of which had as yet been explained. 
 Mr. Fox Maule said, that at that late hour, and as a Committee was sitting up stairs to whom the consideration of this subject properly belonged, it was not his intention to say more than a very few words on the present occasion. He rose to second the Motion of his hon. Friend; and as he had, since the passing of the Reform Bill, been conversant with elections, he could from experience assert, that nothing hindered the free exercise of the right of voters so much as threats and that species of intimidation which was commonly resorted to. He did not apprehend that any objection would be made to the introduction of this measure, inasmuch as the evil which it proposed to remedy was one which became the subject of animadversion on the part of the losers, for the unsuccessful party alone always complained of the bad conduct of the winners in elections. All in turn, equally cried out against the practice, and, therefore, all must agree in wishing a system removed which was generally condemned. But without going further into the subject he would say, that he gladly seconded the Motion, especially as the Bill was not to be proceeded with at once, but referred to the Committee now sitting up stairs. Should, however, that Committee protract their decision beyond a reasonable time he hoped his hon. Friend would be ready to press his Bill forward.
 Mr. Scarlett differed altogether from the sentiments expressed by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, because he was convinced that the ballot—secret voting—was not only unmanly, but unworthy of the character of Englishmen. The hon. Gentleman had thought fit to allude to the conduct of the hon. Member for Blackburne, but surely the hon. Gentleman should take the beam out of his own eye before he plucked the mote out of another's. The conduct of the hon. Gentleman himself was not quite so spotless
 1175
 Mr. O'Dwyer presented a Petition from two individuals, named Walsh and Murphy, one of whom was a Roman Catholic priest, complaining that Mr. Doyne, a Magistrate of Carlow, had offered from the Bench to pay a fine inflicted on two men, who had been convicted of assaults on persons at Borris, because they were opposed to the return of Mr. Kavanagh, the present Member for the county. Such conduct, he must say, was highly improper on the part of any Magistrates, and, if the allegations contained in this petition were made out to the satisfaction of that House, Mr. Doyne ought not to be allowed to remain in the Commission of the Peace.
 Mr. Carruthers said, the difficulty he felt in dealing with the principle of the Bill arose from the objectionable nature of many of its various details, details which so far affected the dealings of the commercial and trading com-
 1158 1159 l., l., l. 1160 Gazette
 Mr. Shaw said, that he would put the House in possession of the facts of the case, as far as he knew them, and would then leave it in the hands of the House. The hon. and learned Member had informed the House, that the agent for the petitioners had undertaken to abandon the petition of the 4th of March, and proceed with one of a subsequent date. Now, the agent had just put into his hands a paper, which, with the permission of the House, he would read. The right hon. Gentleman then read a statement which was, in substance, as follows:—He declared solemnly, upon his honour, and was ready to do so upon his oath, if required, that he never stated that it was his intention to abandon the petition of the 4th of March, but, on the contrary, that if the hon. and learned Member for Dublin should succeed in his attempt to cause the sureties to the third petition to be rejected on Monday last, he would proceed with the petition of the 4th of March; and, in order that there might be no mistake about the matter, he caused a notice to that effect to be posted up on Saturday last. On Monday last an objection was unexpectedly, and without notice, made to the sureties on the third petition, and as there was nobody on the spot to answer it, the examiners said, that they would make a Special Report, for the purpose of obtaining further time to inquire into their validity. Under these circumstances, the agent, knowing that he would have to keep his witnesses in town at a great expense, determined, as he could not proceed upon the third petition, he would go back to the second, and this day had satisfied the examiners of the validity of the sureties to that petition, which were the same to which the hon. and learned Member objected on Monday, for the sureties were the same in both cases. Under these circumstances, it appeared to him that the hon. and learned Member had not been taken by surprise, and that be always knew that the petition was to be proceeded with. It was for the House to decide
 1141
 Mr. Grote said, that the principle of this Bill seemed to him to be recommended both by policy and humanity, and he was more convinced of this by the speech of the President of the Board of Trade than by any other reasoning upon the subject. He always preferred having his own views sustained by the failure of his opponent's arguments than by the success of his own. This was the case as regarded the speech of the President of the Board of Trade. He did not think that small tradesmen would have any reason to complain when they found that they were only placed on a footing with all the other classes of the community. He should be glad if some facility were superadded for the recovery of book-debts, and he would not give any advantage to the holders of bills of exchange that he would not give to the creditors on book-debts. He felt deeply grateful, as he was sure would the country at large, to the hon. and learned Gentleman (the late Attorney-General) who had made so valuable a use of his profound and extensive learning as to apply it to the correction of an abuse so afflicting to humanity and so injurious to the general interests of the country as the law of arrest.
 Mr. Warburton approved of the measure as founded on the great principles of justice. The principle of justice was, that the creditor had a claim upon every species of property in the possession of the debtor.
 Dr. Bowring said, that as he was willing any experiment should be made which was likely to enable voters to record their votes conscientiously, he should vote for the introduction of this Bill, although he was convinced that it would be at last found that the simple and at the same time the best law for such a purpose was
 1174
 Mr. Fector said that, representing as he did one of those boroughs to which the hon. and learned Member for Dublin alluded, representing a popular constituency of freemen, he could not sit quietly by and hear them abused in the manner they had been by that hon. and learned Member without standing forward in their vindication. Although his constituency were not so numerous as that of the hon. and learned Gentleman, he was prepared to affirm that his constituents were, at all events, as respectable, if not more so, than those of the hon. Member; and all he could say was, that he should have been ashamed to owe his position in that House to such arts and means as those by which it was alleged some hon. and learned Member on the opposite benches bad procured the seats which they now occupied. He owed his return to no intimidation; no threats had ever been used towards any elector who had voted against him; and he repeated, that if either he, or the party by whom he was supported, had resorted to such unworthy means, he would scorn to occupy a seat in that House. He was prepared to maintain, that the ballot was not the way in which Englishmen would wish to exercise their political privileges. Secret voting, he asserted, was not only un-English, but would afford protection to none but the skulking coward, who blushed for his own weakness. If a man promised to give him a vote, and because his violation of faith was screened by the ballot he broke his word, and voted against him, what could such conduct be called but moral delinquency? But would that House he should like to know, give such conduct encouragement? He hoped not, because he thought that the independent exercise of the elective franchise required no such means as secret voting to ensure it. He
 1177
 Mr. John Maxwell suggested, that the Bill should be transmitted to Scotland before being sent up to the House of Lords. The measure had not been introduced too soon. If it had not. been brought forward all the gaols in Scotland would have been filled with unfortunate debtors.
 Mr. Poulter said, that, in rising to move for leave to bring in a Bill to protect the free exercise of the franchise, he did so with an intention to propose, that it should be referred to the consideration of a Select Committee. On the principle involved, it was necessary that the Legislature should come to some determination, and the reference of the Bill to a Committee would, he thought, be the best mode of arriving at a satisfactory conclusion on some of the points connected with the subject. The plain and simple principle he took to be this:—The Legislature had conferred upon a numerous class in the country a most important political right, and, therefore, it was incumbent on them to secure to that class the free and independent exercise of the franchise with which they were invested. The proper exercise of this franchise was essential to the interests of the nation, so it was held out when the privilege was granted—and, therefore, no means should be neglected to give to it that freedom and independence it required. To political parties, or to political opinions, he meant not to refer. His opinion was, that the greater part of those evils which afflicted the country, and had called forth such heavy complaints, proceeded not from individuals in whose power it was, to carry into execution the threats and annoyances which obstructed the free action of the voter. They proceeded not from the principals,
 1171 duresse 1172 1173
 Mr. Poulter said, that the Bill embraced the whole of the United Kingdom, and included as well religious as every other species of intimidation.
 Mr. Richards had received numerous communications from persons who entertained the utmost fears in consequence of the introduction of this Bill. They did not object to the details, for they had no opportunity of seeing them, but to the principle of the measure. It appeared altogether to have been forgotten by the hon. and learned Gentleman who originated this Bill, that they were not living in a state of society like that of ancient times, nor in such a state as it was the object of the Christian religion to institute. It seemed to be the object of this Bill, to assure the public that on all occasions creditors were wealthy and debtors were poor, and that creditors ought on all occasions to be merciful to debtors. By giving summary remedy, too, it appeared
 1145 1146 Doctrinaires [Cheers.] 1147 Doctrinaires [Laughter.]
 Mr. Bernal said, that he was more than ever convinced by the observations of the hon. Member for Hull of the necessity of debating the Bill no farther, as all appeared to be agreed on its principle, but to
 1161 1162
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson said, commercial men could give no assistance whatever to the Commission on a question of this kind. Professional men alone could know whether clerks in Court might or might not be reduced without inconvenience. The learned Lord was intitled to great credit for what he had done. He was glad to see the fees diminished. They were a great grievance. He wished to know whether the effect of the Bill would be to
 1168
 Mr. Kavanagh denied the truth of the statements put forward in the petition. He was Chairman of the Quarter Sessions when the two men in question were convicted, and he could, therefore, state, that no such proposition as that alluded to by these petitioners was made either by Mr. Doyne or any other Magistrate. The petitioner said, that those who perpetrated outrages in his favour during the late election were indemnified against the consequences, but he must positively deny that any outrages were committed by any of his friends or supporters on that occasion. On the contrary, it was notorious that the only outrages perpetrated during the late election proceeded from those by whom he was opposed, namely, "the Priests' party;" and it was a fact of equal notoriety, that collections were made by the priests from the altar to pay the fines which might be inflicted on those of their adherents who might be convicted of outrages.
 Mr. Spring Rice was quite sure that after the hon. and learned Member had declared that he had been informed by the agent for the parties who had petitioned
 1142
 Mr. Ewart said that, like his hon. Friend who had last spoken, he too represented a large mercantile constituency, from no portion of which had he received any instruction to offer opposition to this Bill. Convinced as he was that the measure was calculated to add to rather than diminish the security of property, he should give it his most warm support. The titles of  Doctrinaires Doctrinaire l. 1165 "Caveat,
 Mr. Ewart said, that the ballot was not the question which they had now to deal with; but he could not help remarking, that whenever any mention was made of it, some peculiar sophistry, which he termed subterfuge, was resorted to for want of better reasons to negative its necessity. When the hon. Member for Norwich spoke of religious intimidation, he (Mr. Ewart) thought he alluded to a petition which had that day been presented to the House, complaining of the influence used by certain clergymen in this country at the Can terbury election. It was evident that Ireland was not the only place in which religious intimidation was resorted to. What he hoped was, that such an interference, whether by clergy or laity, would speedily be restrained.
 Mr. Finn said, that while such proceedings on the part of the Magistracy as those complained of were tolerated it would be hopeless to look for peace or order in Ireland. Instead of the priests interfering, as the hon. Gentleman had alleged, with a view to intimidate the voters, they were compelled to take no part in the proceedings of the elections by every species of threat. The charge of intimidation, therefore, rested not with the priests but with the landlords, who used all the influence they possessed to oblige their tenants to vote for a particular candidate.
 Captain Pechell said, the retail traders of Brighton thought their interests would not be protected by this Bill. He had a petition from them to that effect.
 Sir James Graham thought, that if there were one point of more importance than another to the dignity and order of their proceedings, it was this—that the solemn declaration of a Member in his place in that House, was always considered as equivalent to an oath. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin solemnly stated in his place, that he did receive an unequivocal declaration from the agent of the petitioners, and as that person's contradiction could not be obtained on oath, he (Sir James Graham) being anxious to maintain the honour of the House, which was involved in the assertion of the principle that a Member's solemn declaration was equivalent to an oath, would urge the House, especially in the present instance, where the postponement of a week was only required, to depend on the word of the hon. and learned Member, for the sake of the dignity of the House.
 Sir John Campbell rose and said, that in consequence of what had occurred, he should move that the ballot for the Dublin Election Committee be postponed till that day se'nnight. 
 Sir John Campbell  moved the Second Reading of this Bill.
 Sir John Campbell hoped the House would allow him to make a few observations in reply to the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade. He considered it of great importance to decide without delay on the principle of this Bill. He thought this a much better course than for them to run the chance of the principle being rejected, after having devoted day after day, and great labour, to an examination of the details of the measure in a Select Committee. He was surprised to hear the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade, lament that Bills of this sort cantered through the House; for all who knew anything of the progress of Reform in Parliament, very well know, that such Bills did the very reverse of cantering, or galloping through their stages; notwithstanding which, however, he entertained sanguine hopes that the present measure would pass, without any very serious delay. The Bill had been framed upon the evidence of practical men. Merchants, who dealt with millions, as well as petty shopkeepers, had been equally examined by the Committee; and that Committee, after the most minute examination of every class and condition of traders, came to a determination, that a measure of the present description would prove of the most essential benefit to the whole community. Upon the Report of that Committee, a Bill was prepared and brought into Parliament, in the last
 1153 cessio bonorum; chevaliers d'industrie, 1154 l., l. l., 1155 l., l., cessio bonorum l. 1156 l. capias ad satisfaciendum, mesne l. mesne 1157 Doctrinaires fi fa.
 Sir John Campbell said, that he was entirely in the hands of the House; but, as far as his own opinion went, he must say, that it would be most cruel and unjust towards those who now languished in the sickness of hope long deferred, not to allow the House now to decide on the principle of the measure to which persons subject to the operation of the present law had so long looked forward. As to the observation of the hon. Member for Knaresborough, that he had entered on a gratuitous piece of legislation, he could only say, that he had received at least 500 letters, not only from debtors, but from creditors, urging him to press the Bill forward. He did think, therefore, that these individuals ought to have the benefit of the decision of the House of Commons on the principle of the Bill.
 Sir John Campbell said, he hailed with the utmost satisfaction these beneficial alterations of the Scottish law. He should esteem it a distinguished honour to be placed upon the proposed Committee.
 Sir John Campbell suggested that the amount for which debtors were liable to imprisonment, should not be lower than 10 l. l.;
 Mr. Rolfe supported the Bill. It was calculated to confer upon the debtor the most essential benefit, without any injury to the creditor. All experience proved that the hope of deriving any benefit in the way of payment from a person who had been once imprisoned for debt was quite hopeless. What, then, was the use of imprisoning a man for debt? It was of no use to the creditor, while it ruined the character of the debtor, and paralysed all his future efforts. The hon. Members for Hull and Manchester were mistaken as to the tendency of the Bill in one respect. The fact was, that it gave no priority of claim, no peculiar advantage, to bills of exchange over other claims. The only difference was this, that bills were a more satisfactory species of evidence. It was no more than justice that persons having this species of evidence should not be left at sea, like those creditors who were more negligent as to the evidence of debt. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Baring) said, they ought to look more to the evidence of tradesmen and commercial men upon a subject of this kind than of lawyers. So far as facts or habits of dealing were concerned, he admitted the justice of the observation, but no further. Not less than
 1167
 Mr. W. Wynn concurred in the view of the case taken by the right hon. Gentleman who had last spoken. He thought that the House could not, without injustice, allow the sitting Member to be put off his guard by a statement of the agent of the parties opposed to him. If the circumstances mentioned by the hon. Member for Dublin had occured, they would undoubtedly form a justification for postponing the ballot; but the question was,
 1143 O'Connell.
 Mr. Williams Wynn fully agreed in the principle of the Bill, and regretted that he should be obliged to differ in some of its details. However, he thought the hon. and learned Member for Edinburgh had begun at the right end of the subject. He (Mr. W. Wynn) had been for many years most anxious for the success of that or a similar measure. Twenty-eight years since, he had been one of the very few who supported the late Sir Samuel Romilly in his first attempt to make real property liable to the claims of creditors, he was, therefore, glad to perceive that the object of his endeavours was now nearly accomplished. With respect to the imprisonment for debts, no one could doubt its inefficiency for all useful purposes in connexion with credit. In the earlier periods of the history of the country it was an extremely difficult and tedious operation to convert real property into money, consequently, a greater length of credit was necessary in transactions of a commercial nature, Since then, however, matters had completely changed, and no such time was required. This obviated the necessity of delay in recovery upon dealings. The altered state of the country, as well as the social improvements which had taken place in every institution, naturally forced the subject of imprisonment for debt on the Legislature. Half a century ago, taking the state of the prisons into consideration at that period, imprisonment for debt was a real and severe punishment. The condition of these receptacles of mis-
 1163
 Mr. Clay said, that he did not believe that the power of imprisonment ever entered into the mind as a matter of the slightest advantage to any mercantile man of extensive dealing. The Bankrupt-laws gave to creditors of that class all the relief and advantage they sought for as against those upon whom they had claims, and the power of imprisonment therefore could extend to them no benefit. In large mercantile transactions the credit of a man must be judged of by his numerous dealings, his extensive connexions, his general intercourse with the commercial world, and these must always be the best guides to a test of his solvency. He could take upon him to assert, with the utmost confidence, that nothing was more rare than the circumstance of one merchant arresting another for debt, and he was sure that if the whole of the merchants of England were polled upon the question, but few would be found to set any value upon the power of arrest which the existing law gave them over their creditors. If the power of arrest was of any value to mercantile interests of any class it could only be so to small dealers; yet he had reason to believe, that even with this class but little value was set upon it. He had the honour of representing, perhaps, the largest mercantile constituency of all classes in the country, and not one single petition had been intrusted, or a single representation made to him from any portion of them against this Bill. On the contrary, he had every reason to believe, that it met with universal approbation amongst his constituents. As to the supposed effect that the Bill might have, to limit the credit of persons with their
 1164
 Mr. Arthur Trevor said, that the interference of clergymen in election matters seemed to occasion dissatisfaction in the minds of many hon. gentlemen; but, for his part he did not understand, why clergymen as well as other persons should not be at liberty to exercise the legitimate influence which they possessed.  [Cheers from the Opposition] ["Hear, hear!"] 1178 s.
 Mr. Hodges rose, pursuant to notice, to present a Petition from numerous Electors and other Inhabitants of the Borough of Chatham, complaining, that, in consequence of the votes which many of them gave at the last election, the Commanding Officer of the Marine Barracks had thought proper to interfere in a manner wholly unprecedented, and, as the petitioners alleged most unjustly, with the freedom of trade in that place. He was sure it was unnecessary to call the serious attention of the House to a subject of such grave importance, affecting so deeply its rights and privileges, and the due freedom of election, as that to which the petition referred. It was signed by 330 electors and inhabitants of Chatham, and it complained of the line of conduct adopted by the Commandant of the Marine Barracks there, in consequence of the proceedings that had taken place at the late election for that town. The petitioners stated, that for many years—indeed from time immemorial—the tradesmen and other inhabitants of Chatham had been in the habit of transacting business in the Marine Barracks, for which purpose they had been admitted without let or hindrance there, until the 19th of January last; that on the 7th and 8th of that month the election for Chatham had taken place, on which occasion a large proportion of the slopsellers and pawnbrokers resident in the borough had voted for Captain Byng, the candidate opposed to the Government, and successful candidate, Sir John Beresford; that on the 19th of January, to the surprise of the petitioners, an order was affixed to the door of the Marine Barracks, signed "H. James,"
 1194 1195
 Sir John Beresford was obliged to the hon. Member for the note that he had last night received from him, intimating that he would present this petition this evening. The only thing that he could assure the hon. Member and the House was, that the charge against the gallant Commandant of the Marine Barracks was
 1196 1197
 Sir Phillip Durham hoped the House would be slow to open either barracks or ships to such a class as those persons who endeavoured to get in to them, whether Jews or Gentiles. He had been a great deal at sea-ports, and he would say, that if they were to open a barrack or a ship to those whisky-dealers, they would not have a sober man in either in a short time. If the House was to take the power out of the hands of a commandant of marines, or the captain of a ship, to keep such characters out, they would repent it. They all knew that the men employed in this species of trade, were of the worst description. When a man was fit for nothing else in London, he became a coal-merchant; and so in the sea-ports, when a man was fit for nothing better, he became a seller of gin or whisky. There would not be a sober man in a ship in three days, if such characters were to be admitted into it.
 Mr. Hodges could assure the hon. and gallant Officer opposite (Sir John Beresford) that nothing was further from his intention than to cast any imputation upon him. He had not alluded to him further than he was necessarily alluded to in the petition. With regard to postponing the discussion on the petition, it was a matter of indifference to him. He had mentioned to the right hon. Baronet (Sir Edward Knatchbull) yesterday, that he had such a petition, and that he intended to present it to-day, and the right hon. Baronet never hinted to him the propriety of deferring the presentation of it. If the right hon. Baronet had done so, or if the right hon. the Member for the county of Edinburgh (Sir George Clerk) had done so, he would have postponed it to another day. The right hon. Baronet had alluded to some allegations which had been made by him (Mr. Hodges), from the hustings at the last election. He, on that occasion, did complain of intimidation and improper influence having been resorted to, but he expressly acquitted his hon. colleague of having any knowledge of such things. In fact, he did not allude to his hon. colleague at all then. He had since made a diligent inquiry into a number of those cases, and he was bound to state that it would be impossible for the Committee of his hon. colleague to give a guarantee to those persons if he brought them forward; he was quite sure it would be their absolute ruin if he were to do so. He had already expressed his satisfaction that a petition had been forwarded like the present, bringing the case of intimidation before the House in such a way that the individuals coming forward to complain would not be ruined, which would be the case with the individuals in the instances alluded to by him at the hustings at Kent, if they should appear to substantiate the charges which he, on their authority, had made. The gallant Admiral opposite had not been sparing in his abuse of those persons trading in Chatham. He spoke of Jews and Gentiles, and whisky-sellers, and gin-sellers, and would seem to insinuate that they were persons of the lowest
 1206
 Mr. Smith O'Brien, in bringing forward a Resolution which would pledge that House to relieve the aged, helpless, and infirm poor of Ireland, felt the disadvantage under which he laboured, by the Commissioners who had been appointed to inquire into this subject not having yet reported. This objection he knew would have a great weight with some, but it would have none with those who, like him, thought that every hour which they delayed in passing a law to give relief was an unnecessary postponement of a measure necessary to the peace and tranquillity of Ireland. The objection would have no weight with those who knew, as he did, that there were thousands, tens of thousands, he might say hundreds of thousands of human beings living for the last seven years in a state of the most absolute destitution, and this, too, was happening while that House was deliberating, was appointing Committees, and was nominating Commissioners to ascertain questions which it required no inquiry to solve. At various periods the question of Poor-laws for Ireland was before that House, but it was always baffled or postponed. In 1829, Mr. Villiers Stuart brought forward a Resolution sanctioning the principle of Poor-laws for Ireland; it was met by the previous question. In 1830, a
 1207 I spent a day, said Mr. Inglis, in visiting those parts of the city where the greatest destitution and misery were said to exist. I entered upwards of forty of the abodes of poverty; and to the latest hour of my existence, I never can forget the scenes of utter and hopeless wretchedness that presented themselves that day. I shall endeavour to convey to the reader some general idea of what I saw. Some of the abodes I visited were garrets—some were cellars: some were hovels on the ground-floor, situated in narrow yards or alleys. Let the worst be imagined, and it will not be beyond the truth. In at least three-fourths of the hovels which I entered, there was no furniture of any description, save an iron pot; no table, no chair, no bench, no bedstead—two, three, or four little bundles of straw, with, perhaps, one or two scanty and ragged mats, were rolled up in corners, unless where these beds were found occupied. The inmates were some of them old; some crooked and diseased some younger, but emaciated, and surrounded by starving children; some were sitting on the damp ground, some standing, and many were unable to rise from their little straw heaps. In scarcely one hovel could I find even a potato. In one which I entered, I noticed a small opening leading into an inner room; I lighted a bit of paper at the embers of a turf, which lay in the chimney, and looked in; it was a cellar wholly dark, and
 1208 l. 1209 1210 1211
 Mr. O'Connell felt it is painful duty to offer his opposition to the Question brought forward by the two hon. Members who had spoken before him. No man in that House could appreciate more fully the motives and the feelings of humanity which had induced these hon. Gentlemen to propose the remedy of legislative relief for the evils which oppressed Ireland, but he apprehended that their very desire to relieve the distress might mislead them as to the means of doing so, and he hoped, that in endeavouring to get rid of a temporary depression, they would not introduce a permanent evil into the country. He trusted that the House would, therefore, pause before they pledged themselves to a resolution like that which was brought before them upon this occasion. He would beg of hon. Members to observe, that this was not a motion for the introduction of a Bill. If it were, the House would have several opportunities of considering the question. The principles of the measure might be considered on the Motion to bring in the Bill on the first
 1213 per saltum: 1214
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn took a different view of this subject, from that which some of the hon. Members on the other side of the House seemed to take, although he was not less anxious than any of them to afford relief in an effective manner from the evils complained of. Although he felt it to be his incumbent duty, on the present occasion, to vote for the previous question, rather than in support of the original Motion, this was not because he had formed any opinion either adverse to the relief of the poor, or in favour of any particular mode of relief, but because, at the present moment, he found himself labouring under that incompetency, which he was sure must affect the greater number of the Members of that House, to come to any definite decision as to the course the House should take on so great and important a question. He was, for one, unable irrevocably to pledge himself, that he would immediately assess all property in Ireland, for the relief of the poor of that country. He should, under any circumstances, object to deciding such a question by a mere Resolution of the House. He thought, that a point so important to the empire at large, and involving the interests of every class of the community, ought not to be prejudiced by any single opinion of one branch of the Legislature. Those who were favourable to the Resolution, ought rather to be desirous that the subject should remain over until some enactment could be proposed and brought forward, upon which a full discussion could take place, and upon which the opinion of all the branches of the Legislature could be obtained, than to have the question prejudiced by such an attempt as this. There were many objections to coming to a decision in favour of this Resolution. It could not be done consistently with any former proceeding of the House, in regard to the question of Poor-laws in Ireland. An hon. Gentleman opposite had said, that such Motions
 1221 1222
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer said that, in consistency with the views entertained by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, he ought to have abstained from entering into the details which he had suggested to the consideration of the House, because in the greater part of his speech he had spoken against the principle altogether of a system of Poor-laws. The hon. Gentleman said, that it would be better to leave the industrious poor to rely solely on their own exertions, inasmuch as that course afforded much greater security for their industry and good conduct, than would exist if Poor-laws were provided: but the hon. Gentleman himself declared that some qualification was necessary of that broad principle. The hon. Gentleman admitted that, under certain circumstances, the principle he had laid down ought to be departed from, and that it would be wise to provide, at the public charge, temporary relief. Now, if it were
 1227 1228 1229 1230
 Mr. Smith O'Brien was satisfied with the discussion of the question, which no one
 1231
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn said, that he had not the remotest idea of what might be the provisions of the Bill. The hon. and learned Gentleman by whom the Motion was made, had forborne to open the details, it could not therefore be in their power to enter into any discussion of its merits. Nothing was more evident, than that they were incompetent to enter into the discussion, for want of sufficient information.
 Colonel Sibthorpe did not rise to oppose the Motion, but to remind the hon. Member for Middlesex that he had opposed a Motion of his for a return of equal importance, and to express a hope that he would not oppose it any longer. The hon. Member for Middlesex was the almanack as well as the omnibus of the House—for he had no less than eighteen motions for returns on the list of the night, many of which were of a very expensive character. He hoped the hon. Member's constituents would find no fault with his mode of economizing the public time and public money. As the question alluded to malt he (Colonel Sibthorpe) should read two letters to the House which he had received that morning from two practical agriculturists—one paying 3,000 l
 Mr. Baring thought, that interference in such matters was not desirable except
 1238
 Mr. Ruthven protested against the description which the right hon. President of the Board of Trade had given of the condition of the Irish emigrants.
 Mr. Wallace moved for a certain return relative to the hire of Post-office packets.
 Sir Thomas Freemantle said, that he should be happy to give his best assistance to remedy the cause of complaint set forth by the hon. Member, as respected the transmission of newspapers to and from the Colonies. The hon. Member would admit that the Post-office was not to blame for the Act of Parliament was imperative, and must be strictly adhered to; and, whatever might have been intended by the Legislature, the Act still sanctioned the charge made. If a Bill should be intro-
 1240
 Mr. Wallace said, that the Post-office regulations were on a most niggardly system. It never was any wish of his that letters should be delivered on the Sunday; but he had personal reason to charge Sir F. Freeling with the most gross partiality in the charge of postage for letters, and he could call on the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Shaw) to confirm what he said. He happened to see that hon. and learned Gentleman one Monday in the library of the House, having before him a huge heap of letters, thirty-two in number, and on his (Mr. Wallace) observing, that he must have had a pretty sum of money to pay that day for extra letters, the hon. and learned Gentleman told him, that he had all the postage remitted to him by Sir F. Freeling, while on that very day he (Mr. W.) was obliged to pay for every letter he received over fifteen. The hon. and learned Member also observed at the same time, that the law entitled Members to receive all their regular number of Sunday as well as Monday letters free. Now, this he (Mr. Wallace) looked upon as a gross partiality. It was also a matter of complaint and great inconvenience that on Sunday there was only one place, namely, the General Post-office, open to receive letters; so that servants and others were obliged to be sent with letters to the Post-office instead of going to church. It had been said by the Duke of Richmond, when at the head of the Post-office, the clerks of the department were too religiously disposed to do any business on Sunday; but it appeared by the report that there
 1241
 Colonel Perceval was resolved to offer to the proposed measure his decided opposition, and he felt bound at the outset to express his strong dissent. On more occasions than one, he had intimated his objection to any such measure as the hon. and learned Member for Galway contemplated. To such a change in the Marriage law of Ireland, he felt persuaded he never could become a party. He never could vote for giving to the priest of the Roman Catholic persuasion a power not enjoyed by the clergyman of the Established Church, and he hoped that Parliament could not be induced to sanction a Bill, the immediate operation of which would be to entitle a Roman Catholic priest to celebrate a marriage without the knowledge of the family of either party, and without being under obligation to obtain a previous knowledge of whether there was, or whether there was not, any legal or moral impediment to such marriage being contracted. It was most important that the Marriage-law of Ireland should speedily be placed upon a proper footing, one that would give to no sect any advantage over another. With that brief remark, he should for the present content himself, reserving his opposition for the second reading.
 Mr. Lynch moved for leave to Repeal so much of the Act of the 19th of George 2nd, cap. 13 (Irish), as annuls and makes void, all Marriages celebrated by any Popish Priest between Protestant and Catholic.
 Mr. Lynch felt assured, that under the circumstances, there would not have been a word said, but for the remarks of the hon. and gallant Member for Sligo. He hoped that permission would be given to introduce the Bill, and that hon. Members would reserve themselves for the second
 1233
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor said, that while he was perfectly aware that the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, in common with many other persons, was not friendly
 1215 1216 1217 1218
 Mr. Shaw said that he did not deny the accuracy of what had been stated by the hon. Member, as to what passed in the library respecting the receipt of all his letters postage free on the Monday, but he did mean to deny that there was any favouritism whatever towards him on the part of Sir F. Freeling. He had certainly said then, and he said the same now, that the Sunday letters ought not to be charged,
 1242
 Mr. Hardy was of opinion, that if the facts should be substantiated, that it would be the duty of the House to address his Majesty to remove this officer. He must say, however, that it was a great hardship on the gallant officer that an opportunity had not been given him to meet it in the
 1205
 Mr. Richards hoped the hon. Member would not press the subject at present further; but, if he did, he certainly should divide with him. He deprecated the course pursued by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, who had argued, from the abuses which had grown up in the system of the Poor-laws, against the principle of those laws. As well might he argue from the acknowledged abuses in Government, in religion, in the army, in the navy, and in science itself, against those necessary institutions. The lion. and learned Member who was so sharp upon our abuses, should really condescend to look narrowly, and without prejudice, on the contrast which this country, with its Poor-laws, presented to his own country, without those laws. We had been accustomed to the principle of our Poor-laws, and that system had now, for above
 1225
 Mr. Hume differed materially in opinion from the hon. Member for Knaresborough, believing, as he did, that the state of the administration of the Poor-
 1226
 Mr. Hume moved for a Return of the Estimates of the expense to be incurred by the East India Company and the British Government for the Diplomatic Mission to Persia, &c.
 Mr. Hume said, that one of the objects which he had in view in moving for these papers was to question the policy and principle of supplanting the former residents at that Court. British officers long resident in the East, by individuals who had never been in that quarter during their lives.
 Mr. Hume moved, for a Return of the number of quarters of Malt used in distillation in each kingdom, &c.
 Mr. Hume complained that, notwithstanding a Bill that had been introduced in the last Parliament to facilitate the transmission of newspapers to and from our colonial settlements free of postage, there were charges still made at the Post-office for newspapers arriving by vessels from the Cape of Good Hope and other colonies, although from Canada and other settlements they were delivered free. Now he thought that all our colonies should be on the same footing in this respect. He also complained that Members of that House were charged postage for all the letters delivered to them on Monday over the number of fifteen, although amongst those were the letters that arrived on Sunday, there being no delivery on the Sabbath. Now, he considered it very hard that, in consequence of a Post-office regulation, not to have any delivery of letters on a Sunday, Members should be put to the expense of postage for all letters arriving to them in London on that day but not delivered until Monday. There was a strange anomaly too as regarded this matter, because, although a Member could not receive his Sunday letters in London until Monday, and without paying for them, if he chanced to be at Bath, or any other country town, he might not only receive his letters there on the Sunday, but receive them free of postage. The Act of Parliament distinctly stated, that Members shall receive their letters daily, and he could not, therefore, see why they should be charged for the letters of Sunday any more than those of any other day, although they might be delivered on the Monday.
 Mr. Hume said, that it was true he had opposed the Bill of 1828, because he believed that all minute legislative interference on such subjects was vicious as well as unnecessary. He thought that there were three duties which it was imperative upon the Government to perform. The first was to see that the vessels carrying emigrants were trustworthy, and not what was commonly called coffin ships; the second was to see that the emigrants were protected from imposition by fair contracts with those who conveyed them; and the third was to take care that the vessels had on board provisions adequate to the length of the voyage and to the number of passengers.
 Mr. Hume said, that the hon. and gallant Member was in one respect like Jack Falstaff—for he had metamorphosed his seven Motions into eighteen. He had only seven altogether. Two of these seven Motions were designed to prove that the Malt-tax might be repealed without adding a single shilling to the burthens of the country. The gallant
 1235
 Mr. Patrick Stewart thought that the Bill would be useful in all its branches. He thought that the sea-worthiness of the ships ought to be ascertained by Government officers on their responsibility. He trusted that all the hon. Member's mea-
 1239
 Mr. Poulett scrope said, that he had ever taken a very great interest in this question, but had failed in his object; and happy he was, that he had so failed, because it had been brought forward by hon. Members, who, from their large stake in the country, would have some chance of prevailing with those who were similarly circumstanced to look at this question without prejudice. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin, in opposing the Resolution, told them to wait for the Report of the Commission. If he had told them that there was a chance of this being received in the present Session, and that there would then be time to legislate, he would have joined in deprecating this early proceeding; but, as he had every reason to understand, that there was no chance of such Report being laid on the Table of the House in time for the discussion of the question, he would say, that they had no other plan to pursue than to bring it forward, and to take the opinion of the House on a question of an abstract nature—so simple as to require no evidence. What were they sitting in that House for, but to provide for the safety and welfare of the inhabitants of the three kingdoms? What were they to do for Ireland? He did not ask whether the people were comfortable, happy, or prosperous, at the present period; but he would ask, whether they were able to have any security for their existence? This question might be viewed in several lights—as a question of humanity, of Christian charity, of police, or of abstract justice. On all these points it was impossible to come to any other conclusion. As a matter of humanity, or of Christian charity, it was clear, that no inhabitant of a country should be permitted to starve. Doctor Doyle's evidence proved, that a large number of persons were in a state of daily starvation in Ireland, and it was asserted, that such was their reduced condition, that their blood
 1219 1220
 Mr. Bernal did not differ from the gallant Admiral as to the impropriety of the House interfering with orders, whether issued by civil, military, or naval authorities, when they contained regulations authorized by the laws of the services. He was as little disposed as the gallant Admiral to ask the House to interfere with the orders of a commander of a ship, or
 1200 1201
 Mr. Potter said, that he knew many shopkeepers who had been interfered with in a similar way on account of votes they had given. If the House did not interfere, the freedom of election would be at an end. He believed that there was no cure for such practices but the Ballot.
 Mr. Sheil argued that, to obviate objections which had been made by some hon. Member to-night, it would be best to frame the Resolution so as to embrace only those whom age or imbecility rendered objects deserving of charitable relief. There was a striking difference in the legislative history of the two countries. It was this:— After the abolition or confiscation of the monastic property, by Henry VIII., it was discovered that the fund for the maintenance of the poor was absorbed, and to remedy the evil, the 43rd of Elizabeth was passed in the next reign but one. In Ireland the same confiscation of monastic property took place, but most unjustly for the interests of the poor no provision was made even out of the tithes transferred to another hierarchy. He hoped shortly some measure of justice would be dealt out to the people of Ireland in this respect.
 Mr. Sheil said, that Mr. Ellice, the head of the mission, had been a long while in India, and the East generally, and had filled various important stations there. He approved of the election because he thought that the questions to be dealt with were rather of a civil than a military nature.
 Mr. Cutler Fergusson  said, that the existence not alone of the British rule in India, but also of the peace of Europe, depended upon the obstacle which it opposed to the policy of Russia in the Court of Persia. The only question which could arise on the subject of the mission in his opinion was whether it was sufficiently provided for by the 20,000 l
 Mr. Wyse assented to the propriety of waiting for the Report. He had to congratulate the House on the statement made by the right hon. Baronet (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), that he had no objection to the introduction of Bills which would enable them to come to some conclusion before the end of the Session, and from which hon. Gentlemen would judge of the details. The question of the Poor-laws was divided into two parts—one as regarded the sick and infirm, and the other as regarded the able bodied. There were other reasons why he should at present be unwilling to decide upon the nature of the relief. Until some organization was introduced into Ireland—until a general system of education had been established—until the Board of Public Works had been regulated—until the Question of the Irish Church had been fully and finally settled, he, as one of the people, could not consent to any further assessment on the property of the country.
 Mr. William Gladstone moved for leave to bring in a Bill to repeal the Act of 9 Geo. IV., chap. 21, for regulating the carriage of passengers in merchant vessels to the Continent and islands of North America, and to make further provision for regulating the same. The Bill he proposed to introduce asserted no new principle, and merely modified the provisions of the one to be repealed by it. He, therefore, hoped that there would be no opposition to it, especially as humanity and good feeling required some legislative enactment on the subject of emigration. The question involved was one of no small importance to the community. In 1831, the number of emigrants from this country to the Canadas and the Islands was 51,000. He needed not, therefore, impress upon the House that anything which affected the comforts of such a yearly average number was worthy of its attention, especially when it was borne in mind that they were of the poorest condition in the community. In 1828, when the Emigration Bill was before the House, it was notorious that the hon. Member for Middlesex, along with other hon. Members, had opposed it; he trusted, however, that the beneficial results which had arisen from the measure would have the effect of disarming all opposition to the Amendment proposed which was the purpose of his (Mr. Gladstone's) Bill. The provisions of his Bill were comparatively few, and he would give a brief outline of them to the House. In the first instance, it was found that, under the present system the emigrants, during the voyage, and on their arrival, were subjected to a variety of restrictions and expenses, which, as they generally possessed but small means, were, in most cases, destructive to their future prospects. This was one of the abuses which his Bill proposed to remedy. The next provision of the Bill would make it compulsory in owners and masters of vessels to retain emigrants at their option forty-eight hours on board after their arrival. The reason of this provision was to be found in the expense and inconvenience which these poor people experienced on being thrust
 1236 1237 
 
 1828 .. .. 12,000 
 1829 .. .. 16,000 
 1830 .. .. 28,000 
 1831 .. .. 50,000 
 1832 .. .. 51,000
 Mr. Finn: To the statement which had been made, that the poor were supported by the class immediately above them, he would give his contradiction, as also to the statement, that relief was forced by intimidation. He was glad the discussion had been supported with good temper, and considerable advantage would be reaped from it. The proceedings of the Commissioners had been dilatory—from whatever cause he knew not. The House was quite in the dark as to all their proceedings; indeed, it almost seemed as if the Commission had been appointed to prevent any result. He thought, however, it was necessary to wait for the Report before they proceeded further.
 Mr. William Roche : Sir, the excellent spirit in which this subject has been discussed, together with the very pleasing and promising exposition and announcement of the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies, who has just sat down, justify me in narrowing the observations which my estimate of the importance of that subject might, otherwise, induce me to make, and therefore to limit, which I am always disposed to do, my trespass upon the time and attention of the House. My hon. Friend, who so calmly and efficiently brought forward this Motion, has very pointedly and very properly adverted to and depicted the condition of the lower classes of the people in the city of Limerick, which place I have the honour to represent. Sir, I regret to say that the more deplorable that description, and deplorable his description was, the more accurate and characterestic of truth, the deeper—nay, the darker the shades of the picture, the nearer to reality; for, as I remarked a few nights ago, in consequence of some observations which fell from the hon. Member for Coventry, on a similar subject, thousands in the old
 1223 1224
 Sir Edward Codrington said, that as practices similar to those alleged in this petition, had taken place at Devonport, he thought it important that this petition should be referred to a Select Committee, specially appointed to take it into consideration. He would be able before such a Committee, to prove that similar intimidation was going on at the present moment in Devonport. Hon. Members
 1199
 Sir Edward Codrington  said, that the hon. Baronet confounded two cases.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull did not rise to oppose the motion, for if it should appear that there had been any illegal interference on the part of the military, or any other authorities, with the exercise of the elective franchise, it was the undoubted right of that House to interfere to protect the freedom of election. In discussing the question raised by this petition, he would not go into the case of the Devonport election, referred to by the gallant Admiral. That case had been fairly set at rest, and that the imputations in that instance cast upon the officers, could not be supported. With regard to the present case, he regretted he was not in his place when the petition was presented, but having since read it, he would suggest to the hon. Member the propriety of postponing it for two or three days, in order that he (Sir E. Knatchbull) might have a personal communication with the gallant Officer against whom the allegations were
 1203
 Sir Thomas Troubridge said, that this was not the only case of intimidation that could be brought forward in boroughs situated like Chatham. This was a very important case, which ought to be taken up by the House; and he hoped that the suggestion of the hon. Member for Devonport would be followed, and that a Select Committee would be appointed to take it into consideration. He did not consider it the part of an officer either in command of a ship or marines, to give an order that would have the effect of intimidating individuals from giving their votes freely. As it appeared to him, the gallant Admirals opposite had altogether fought shy of the question. He himself could lay before the House a similar case of intimidation, the circumstances of which he should be almost ashamed to detail. He had no doubt that Colonel Tremenhere was a gallant officer, but applying himself to the general principle of interference with the votes of electors, he would say, that it should not be put by or put down by any side wind in reference to the character of an individual. It was the imperative duty of the House to maintain the free exercise of the elective franchise, and whenever a Motion was made to appoint the Committee suggested, he should give it all the support in his power.
 Sir George Grey said, that no one imputed to the gallant officer such acts as the petitioners had complained of. Every one knew that a more honourable man did not exist, and he was quite willing to give him credit for acting up to the sentiments he had just expressed. The present question was one of great public importance. Being himself the Representative of a borough (Devonport) somewhat similarly situated to that of Chatham, he could from his own knowledge testify that the zeal of certain officers often outran their discretion, and that in serving the existing Government, they did not stop to consider the freedom of those placed under them as sailors or soldiers as to the giving of their votes. This petition, signed by 300 and upwards of the inhabitants of Chatham, contained charges which, if established, constituted a gross breach of the privileges of that House; and the complaints thus made by those petitioners, were not to be disposed of by the mere assertion, that the commanding officer of a barrack or a ship, might issue any orders that he pleased for the regulation of those under his command, and that he ought not to be interfered with. The House had a right to look at the  animus 1198
 Sir John Campbell was of opinion that the House was bound to interfere in this case. He thought there should be a Select Committee appointed to investigate the whole matter, and to examine witnesses on both sides, in justice as well to Colonel Tremenhere as to the petitioners. The allegations contained in the petition went to prove a direct interference with the elective franchise. It appeared on the statement of the petitioners that eleven days after the election an order was issued, which was in substance that all tradesmen who had voted for Captain Byng should be excluded from the Marine Barracks, and this fact, coupled with the declaration alleged to have been made by Colonel Tremenhere to an elector previous to the election—namely, that "if Chatham should not return Admiral Beresford he hoped the Government would adopt such measures as would shut up half the shops in the town," amounted in his opinion to a direct interference with the freedom of election. [Sir  Edward Knatchbull.
 Sir John Campbell said, he should be delighted to see one general and uniform
 1232 ["No! no!"]
 Sir Richard Musgrave seconded the Resolution. The hon. Baronet, after referring to the Report of the Committee of 1831, appointed to inquire into the question of giving Poor-laws to Ireland, and stating that that Report was of itself a sufficient ground for legislation, said, that, without going into Ireland, no one could imagine the state of want and destitution which prevailed in that country among the poor. The wretched inhabitants, who had wandered about all day in ragged garments, were frequently obliged to pass the night without any other covering. Charitable individuals endeavoured, in some measure, to remedy this evil by supplying them with clothes, but this was ineffectual for the purpose, as they were after a short time compelled to sell them to save themselves from absolute starvation. Cases were frequently brought before the Magistrates of breaches of the law, committed in consequence of the pressure of extreme want, and the privation of the actual necessaries of life. The Magistrates were unwilling to punish such offences, but as the law compelled them to punish, they visited the first offence, with a slight fine; necessity, however, soon drove the offender to repeat the offence, and then he was sent to gaol, where he was provided with food and lodging, and was better off than when at liberty. The poor man might be fined 5 l 1212
 Sir Richard Musgrave thought the matter highly deserving the attention of Parliament. He could state that in his own county (Waterford) many cases of intimidation had occurred, and that the inhabitants, at a public meeting, had come to a determination that nothing but the ballot would protect the electors.
 Sir Robert Bateson on the part of the poor of Ireland returned his thanks to the hon. Member for introducing the Bill.
 Sir Robert Inglis had thought that the matter to which the gallant Admiral had referred, had been set at rest. If he was not mistaken in the correspondence alluded to, it was stated in a letter from the noble Lord opposite (Lord Ebrington) to whom the case was referred, that the officer in question was not at all to blame.
 Sir Samuel Whalley said, that they never could maintain the freedom of election unless they dealt out a measure of censure, or of punishment if necessary, in cases of this kind. They might express as often as they pleased in general terms their condemnation of intimidation, but to point out a particular case to public opprobrium was the surest way to prevent a repetition of the offence.
 Lord Ebrington rose merely in consequence of the reference made to him by his hon. Friend opposite (Sir R. Inglis), regarding the opinion he had given with respect to the conduct of an officer at the Devonport election. He begged to state that the case in question was totally distinct from that to which his gallant Friend, the Member for Devonport, had just now alluded. The case to which his gallant Friend alluded, was that of an officer of marines, not a magistrate. The case whereon he (Lord Ebrington) had been called on to give an opinion, was in consequence of a representation that had been made to him by Captain Foot, of the navy, that his brother magistrates had declined to act with him on the Bench, on account of his soliciting the votes of certain licensed victuallers for Sir E. Codrington, and Sir G. Grey. Captain Foot sent him (Lord Ebrington) the whole correspondence on the subject, as well as the statement of the licensed victuallers, and after a careful examination of them, it was his (Lord Ebrington's) opinion, that there was nothing in the documents containing the slightest imputation on the character of Captain Foot as an officer or a man. With regard to the petition now before the House, he was not one of those who
 1202
 Lord Sandon knew that the description given by the right hon. Gentleman was a very correct description of the wretched condition of Irish emigrants. He held in his hand a hundred cases of poor Irish emigrants, all of which fully corroborated the statement of the right hon. Gentleman. He believed that emigrants suffered very much from the too crowded state of the vessels, and from a deficiency of provisions; and he thought that by legislation these evils might be mitigated or altogether removed. It was time that the Government should interfere, and it was only following a just principle of legislation when Parliament interposed for the protection of the weak and ignorant.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the Report had been made on Monday last: this was Friday: why had the Report not been brought up before? The fourteen days allowed by the Act for perfecting the sureties were now expired. Yes; the petition was presented on the 6th of the month, and this was the 20th. It was surely too late for the hon. Member to make any such Motion. The Report was made on Monday. Why was it not brought up on Tuesday? Why not, at any rate, on Wednesday? No; instead of this, the hon. Member kept it quietly in his pocket, all the time that he was doing his best to prevent the postponement of the Ballot. If it were not his own case, he should at greater length, and more warmly call upon the House not to sanction such an attempt as this evidently was; but it being his own case, he should content himself with simply entreating the House, to consider the whole of the circumstances, to ask themselves why it was the Report had been delayed till this day, and then to put it to themselves, whether they could, consistently with their duty to the public, or to themselves, as individual Members of the House, sanction the proposition of the hon. and learned Member.
 Mr. O'Connell  objected, in point of form to the receiving of any affidavit, unless it could be shown how the adverse party could answer it by a counter affidavit.
 Mr. O'Connell :If this affidavit were in a shape in which I could prosecute it for perjury I would do so at once. There were four persons present on the occasion alluded to. One of them was a young Gentleman, a client, of the name of Mathison, who came in on business to the office when the conversation commenced. The agent for the petitioner came in, and stated his willingness to abandon the pe-
 12 13
 Mr. Ruthven  entirely concurred in the statement of his hon. colleague. His recollection was recent and most distinct, and he believed that Sir Robert Sidney had made a memorandum to the same effect. He complained that the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Shaw) had stated some matters upon his own knowledge not contained in the petition.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, that he had reason to feel more than usual embarrassment in rising to address the House upon this important question. The subject was in itself of so very complicated and difficult a nature, embracing so many complicated details, and affecting such a variety of interests, that for these reasons alone he required the indulgence of the House in applying himself to it; but when, in addition to the embarrassing nature of the subject, he found that it was one which, ever since the year 1831, had been canvassed with much warmth in that House, and that out of Parliament religious differences had been mixed up with it, he felt all the difficulty of his task, and that
 14 15 s. d. 16 17 l. l. 18 l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l., l.; l. l. l. l. l. 19 l. s. l; l., l. s. l., l. l. l. 20 No.'" l. 21 l l. l., l. l. l. l. 22 l. l. l l.
 Lord John Russell  should say but a few words on the present occasion, not being inclined to offer any opposition to the measure of the right hon. Gentleman. At the same time he must remind the House, that a Bill not very dissimilar was brought into the House of Commons in the last year, and the House of Commons recommended the settlement of that great question in such a manner that he believed nearly all the principal opponents of that measure, sitting on the other side of the
 23 l. s. l. l. l. l. bonâ fide l., l. 24
 Mr. Shaw  was of opinion, that the noble Lord, who had just sat down, had fallen into an error in supposing, that there was no essential difference between the measure of last year and the present plan. He contended, that there was no difference between the two. He would endeavour to point out to the noble Lord a very material distinction between the two plans. In the first place, the Bill of last year proposed the reduction of forty per cent in the amount of tithes, whereas the present Bill only proposed a reduction of twenty-five per cent. He had always thought, that the transference of the liability of the payment of tithes from the occupiers to the owners of the land, would be a great advantage to the clergy; and that, therefore, they should give up some portion of their claims as compensation to the owners. The amount proposed last year—forty per cent—was a monstrous sacrifice for such an advantage. The noble Lord (Lord Althorp) who introduced the plan last year, in the first instance proposed, that they should give up only twenty per cent, and, with the exception of the charge of two and-a-half per cent, then proposed to be made, no objection was urged against that part of the arrangement by those who were supposed to represent the clergy of Ireland in the House. This part of the plan was subsequently altered in the manner he had stated. There were, however, some still more material objections to it—namely, the sum to be paid to the clergy, and the manner in which the sum should be made up. The noble Lord said,
 25 26 l. 27 l., 28 l. l. l. l. l.
 Viscount. Howick  did not rise to follow the right hon. and learned Gentleman through the various statements he had made; indeed, if he had felt inclined to do so, it would have been beyond his powers, such was the discursive nature of the right hon. Gentleman's observations. He rose merely to express a hope, that the right hon. Baronet would not call on them this night to assent to the whole of these Resolutions, but that he would consent to print them, and allow the House to postpone its determination except on those points on which he believed no material difficulty would arise. He agreed with his noble Friend, the Member for Devonshire, as to the principle of establishing a rent-charge, instead of tithes, and on that principle he should not have
 29 30 31
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  trusted he could make an arrangement, that would preclude any difference of opinion. He confessed that the course which the noble Lord, the Member for Devonshire (Lord John Russell) had suggested, was the correct one, viz., to withhold all opposition to the present Resolution—the right being reserved of discussing the whole question hereafter. He thought the House might consent to pass this Resolution—the discussion being reserved till the Bill was brought forward, which would render it intelligible. The House would probably agree with him in thinking the Bill a necessary preliminary to the discussion. It was impossible to understand this measure from abstract Resolutions; the whole ought to be before them in a comprehensive form. He thought this course would not be objected to—it being admitted, that no man would be pledged by the preliminary proceeding to assent to any part of the measure to be hereafter introduced. That was the view, and he considered it a natural and just view, which was taken by the right hon. Baronet. In order to prove to the House, that by assenting to these Resolutions, it would not in the slightest degree lend itself to the measure that was to follow, he need only refer to the Resolution which was moved in the early part of last year. That Resolution was the foundation of a Bill,
 32 l. l.
 Viscount Howick  said, there was a material difference between the Resolution just read, and the one now before the Committee.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not ask any man to preclude himself from making objections to the measure to be brought in on another occasion. Surely it was the usual course for the House to agree to such Resolutions.
 Mr. Hume.  One portion of the present Resolution related to a grant of money.
 Viscount Howick : If the right hon. Baronet would leave out that part of the Resolution about the repayment of the million, the difficulty might be got over. As regarded the redemption of tithes in land, he was aware that was a matter of detail, and might be objected to in the course of the discussions on the Bill; but that part of the Resolution which called on the House to consent to a grant of money he thought ought to be objected to in the Committee in which it was proposed. He used the term grant, considering that where the Resolution said the repayment of the million should not be insisted on, the effect of it was a virtual grant.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had always most anxiously endeavoured to avoid calling on the House to pledge itself irrevocably to any measure, without hav
 33
 Mr. Warburton  said, that at any stage of the bill they might go into Committee, for the purpose of making this grant of money, if it were considered expedient.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, there would be no difficulty, at all events. He must admit, that he did not think it would be fair, without having given notice, to call on the House to affirm to-night that portion of the Resolutions excepted to, if doing so would have the effect apprehended; but having made this remark, he should like to have the opportunity of considering the point with reference to the precedents that existed. Perhaps he might find, that a separate Bill might be brought in after the Resolution was agreed to. He begged to ask, however, whether it would not be for the convenience of the House, that the whole measure, in as perfect a form as possible, should be before it prior to entering on the discussion. He wished now to address a few words to the House on the present condition of Ireland. Though many Gentlemen, who were in the last Parliament were conversant with the details; yet he thought it was an error which they often fell into to assume, that the information of hon. Gentlemen was perfect on the subject. But there were many who were now listening to this dry discussion for the first time, and probably they were not very well aware of the present state of the question. If ever there was a question that was difficult of adjustment in a manner consistent with equitable principles, it was this question. In a great part of the south of Ireland, there was a practical suspension of the collection of tithes. Attempts had been made, in some instances, to collect them, but those attempts met with resistance; and such were the patient endurance and forbearance of the clergy, that they rather submitted to see their families subjected to the utmost privations, than avail themselves of their legal rights, and enforce
 34 l. l. l. No, no!" "No, no!" 35 l., 36 l.; l. l. l. 37 l., 38 l. O'Connell; 39 l.
 Mr. O'Connell  was overpowered by the magnitude of this Question, and the deep interest the people of Ireland had in every discussion that took place in that House upon this subject. There was no use in trying to appease the people of Ireland, unless something was given to them; and he had never heard two speeches with more regret than the speech of the right hon. and gallant Officer, and that of the right hon. Baronet, (the Chancellor of the Exchequer.) The right hon. Baronet's speech
 40 41 l. l. l. 42 l. s. l. 43 l. 44 45 46 l.,
 Colonel Conolly  stated, that his reasons for supporting the measure of the Government was, that it carried in view all those considerations mentioned by the hon. Member for Dublin, but without doing injustice to any one. The Member for Dublin had never once mentioned the clergy, who had been suffering from a series of misfortunes only surpassed by their forbearance. He entirely approved of that determination of the Government
 47 48 l. l.
 Mr. Charles Wood  wished to know whether he understood the right hon. Baronet rightly, that the second Resolution would not be pressed, and that the first only would be put  pro formâ,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he did not mean to call on the House without notice to affirm to-night the resolution, to the effect that the sum of 630,000 l. 49 l. l.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said that originally the Resolutions did not contain that provision with respect to the remission of the quinquennial instalments, and the grant of the remaining part of the million towards the arrears of last year, but it had been considered better to introduce it in order to give the House a more complete idea of the plan which Ministers had in contemplation. In fact the second Resolution was only added that afternoon, after entering the House.
 Mr. Charles Wood  was satisfied with the explanation; and on the understanding that passing the first Resolution did not pledge them to redemption, but merely to furnish the groundwork for the introduction of the Bill, he must say the House would not be discharging its duty if it did not permit the introduction of the measure, in order that they might have an opportunity of forming a correct judgment on its principle and details. But with respect to the second Resolution, he must hear a great deal more of the impossibility of the clergy repaying the million, before he consented to charge his constituents and the people of England with the payment of so large a sum. When it had been voted, they were given to understand that it should certainly be repaid. In his apprehension, nothing could be more evident than that from some fund or other they were entitled to look for the repayment of that money. There never had occurred the slightest circumstance which could at all warrant an assumption to the contrary. He would not then enter into the general question of the Irish Church, or the propositions which had in the last or the present Session of Parliament been made with a view to a Tithe Bill. To enter upon the wide field of such a discussion was not then his intention, but he could not refrain altogether from saying that it afforded him much pleasure to learn that it was the intention of his noble Friend (Lord John Russell), very speedily to make a proposition to Parliament with the design
 50
 Mr. Littleton  was unwilling that such a Resolution as that then in the hands of the Chairman should be disposed of without his availing himself of the opportunity then presented of expressing his opinion as to the present situation of the Tithe Question. One opinion he certainly did entertain, that for a time at least, the judgment of the House ought to be sus-
 51 l. 52
 Mr. Hume  began by saying, that he was most anxious to call the attention of the House to the course which, at the recommendation of his Majesty's Ministers, they were then pursuing, or rather, he should say, endeavouring to pursue, for, in his judgment, it was utterly and totally impossible that they could continue to proceed in that manner. He would earnestly request of hon. Members to look at the question before them, which in truth resolved itself into two questions—that of Irish tithes, and of the sum of 1,000,000 l. l. 53 pro forma, pro forma pro forma, 54 55
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he should certainly take the sense of the House upon the first of the Resolutions for the purpose of obtaining in that form permission to bring in the Bill which his right hon. and gallant Friend sought to introduce. By the affirmation of that Resolution, the House would have an opportunity afforded it of comparing the measures of the last year and of the present, and of judging between them. By voting for that Resolution, no hon. Member would be in the least degree committed to the principle of the Bill; and as to the second point to which attention had been so emphatically called, it was only necessary for him to observe, that if any Gentleman complained of being taken by surprise, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) should feel no shame in giving way, in order to accommodate himself in that respect to the feelings of Members, and to remove the slightest shadow of ground for disapprobation. Before he sat down, it was necessary that he should ask one question of the hon. Member for Middlesex. "Does the hon. Member, (said the Chancellor of the Exchequer) mean to say, that my conduct in reference to this question was not that of a man of honour?"
 Mr. Hume : I said, had I been in the situation of the right hon. Baronet, I should not have acted as he has done. According to my idea of a man of honour, he should not take up and support a measure of which, in similar circumstances, he had been the strenuous opponent.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : Does the hon. Member mean to say, that I have acted in a manner inconsistent with the character of a man of honour? He knows the nature of the question—he knows the course I took on the former occasion—that which I have pursued on the present, is of course before him. Does he mean to say, that I have acted in a manner inconsistent with the character of a man of honour? Does he mean to apply the language he has used to me?
 Mr. Hume : I have no hesitation in saying that as a political man, I should not have adopted the same conduct as that of the right hon. Baronet.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : I do not want a hypothetical answer, I put a plain question to the hon. Member for Middlesex,
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  rose to order. He was sure that no reflection was intended to be cast upon the character of the right hon. Baronet. He could say that for nine years that he had sat in that House, he had seen nothing dishonourable in the conduct of the right hon. Baronet. With regard to the subject before the House, best owing upon the question under consideration the best attention which, in so short a space of time, it was in his power to bestow, he felt that he should best discharge his duty to his constituents by voting for the Motion of the hon. Member for Middlesex. He professed himself utterly and totally at a loss to comprehend how the House could think of affirming one resolution, and imagining itself free from the binding effect of the other. The first Resolution was completely conclusive of the principle. It would tend to create not merely a rent-charge upon the land, but an appropriation of the issues and profits to the uses of the clergy. For these reasons, then, he felt bound to enter his most solemn protest against any proposition which went to conclude, as he conceived this did, the question of appropriation. He hoped, then, that the right hon. Baronet would not urge them to come to any decision upon the question that night, but that at a future time, and after due notice, the question might be again brought under their consideration.
 Mr. Shiel  observed, that it had been argued on the other side, that the mere affirming of the Resolution would be nothing more than a  pro formâ 58 The Times
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, that the clergy would apply for the amount of the composition in the first instance, and in default of payment, they would call upon the Ecclesiastical Commissioners to interfere—thus the clergy would no longer be the litigating parties.
 Mr. Sheil  inquired if the clergy were not, in the first instance, to collect the Tithes? He concluded, that it would be so, and upon that ground alone he should oppose the Motion; for he entertained not a shadow of doubt that the proper course would be to settle the question of appropriation, and not present the second Resolution to the House till afterwards. As to affecting that the adoption of the Resolution would be merely  pro formâ,
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn  said, he wished to make a few observations, but assured the House, at the same time, that he would not enter upon the general question. Loud and emphatic objections had been urged against his right hon. Friend for bringing forward the present Motion without due notice. Surely, it must be in the recollection of hon. Members, that it was the every day practice of the House to adopt resolutions in Committee as preliminary to the introduction of bills; in fact, it was required by the orders of the House that a proceeding in that form should be adopted. Some hon. Member alleged that they were incompetent to discuss such a
 59 60
 Mr. Harvey  said, it was most important that hon. Members should understand, that in affirming the present motion,—one or either of the Resolutions,—they committed themselves, beyond all possibility of question, to that which constituted the essential principle of the measure. The right hon. Baronet, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had assured them that he did not mean to entrap Members into recognizing by the proceedings of that House, or embodying in any resolution whatever objects which, when they came down to that House, had never entered into their contemplation. He believed the right hon. Baronet to be perfectly sincere then, but it was not the interpretation which the King's Minister might then put upon their vote that Members had to consider in disposing of the present question, it was the nature and extent of the construction which, at any time, might be put upon that resolution. To affirm the first Resolution was consenting to the introduction of the Bill, and to some extent that was a
 61 l. 62
 Mr. Ward : As the sense of the majority of the House seems to be decidedly against the principle involved in the Resolutions before the House with respect to the future appropriation of Church-property in Ireland. I feel strongly inclined to vote for the Motion for adjournment proposed by the hon. Member for Middlesex; but if the right hon. Gentleman will give the House a distinct declaration that all he asks for is permission to submit the details of the Bill to the House without pledging hon. Members to the principle contained in the Resolutions, I do not hesitate to say that I wish to see the measure of his Majesty's Government submitted to the consideration of Parliament.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied: I have already distinctly stated that I cannot expect that any hon. Gentleman should, by permitting the Resolutions to pass, be deprived of the power of amending in any part, or altering altogether, the Bill which my right hon. and gallant Friend will introduce to the notice of the House. The Resolutions merely embody the views of his Majesty's Government with respect to the measure which it is our intention to submit to the consideration of Parliament. I would beg to remind the House, that a Resolution of an exactly similar nature to that now proposed was submitted to the House at the commencement of the last Session, upon the division on which occasion the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Littleton) was teller. Surely, then, it is equally unfair to debar us from submitting these Resolutions as the ground-work of the measure which it is our intention to bring forward, as it would be to deprive any hon. Member of the power of considering and determining upon the Bill when introduced, simply because he now assented to the passing of those Resolutions.
 Mr. Ward  considered himself justified, from the explanation of the right bon. Gentleman, in concluding that, by giving his vote for those Resolutions, he should not be precluded from giving the fullest
 63
 Mr. Spring Rice  protested against the analogy which had been attempted to be drawn between the proceedings of the last and the present Session, because, in his opinion, the position of affairs at these two periods was essentially different. He would only ask hon. Gentlemen opposite and his own hon. Friends, whether, after the issue of the Commission of last Session, of which so much had been said in that House, and after the announcement of the intention of the late Government not merely to do everything to facilitate the inquiries of that Commission, but also to act on its recommendations. The question of appropriation, to which the resolutions then before the House distinctly referred, did not
 64 pro formâ, 65 66 67 68 l. 69
 Mr. Shaw,  in explanation, said that it was very true he had opposed the grant of a million to the Irish clergy, because he considered that such a grant would be a bar to all regular payments; but though he did not approve of the principle, he felt obliged to follow a bad precedent, and give his consent to the appropriation of the present residue of the grant to the relief of the clergy. With respect to what the hon. Gentleman had said in reference to some letters which he read to the House from the clergy of Ireland, he begged to inform him that he laboured under a mistake; for those letters he had received during the discussion on the Bill of last Session.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, the rejection of the proposal made by the right hon. Member for Cambridge, is a proof of the insincerity of Government. The Resolutions are a fraud upon the nation—they propose to abolish composition for tithes, but under another name, and for the same purposes, they continue the tithes  ad infinitum. 70 l. l. 71 s. "Resolved!—That the peace of Ireland and the cause of humanity require that the system of tithes in that country should be abolished. "That the rights of persons having vested interest should be provided for. "That a tax founded on a fair composition should be imposed upon Ireland for the said purpose, and the amount thereof paid into the Exchequer, to be disposed of for such religious and charitable purposes, and in such proportions as Parliament may think proper." 72
 Lord Stanley  said, that knowing, as he had ample opportunities of knowing, the extreme difficulties of this case, and knowing the necessity of meeting it with great calmness, he was delighted to find as he was about leaving the House not long ago that the House was about to affirm so much of the Resolution, and so much only, as, without pledging the House one way or the other, would enable the Government to bring forward the Measure which his right hon. and gallant Friend (Sir H. Hardinge) had opened and explained. It was, therefore, with satisfaction that he had heard the right hon. Baronet (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), consent to withdraw so much of the Resolution as had been introduced late in that day, and which, though it was a matter of form, might appear to take the House by surprise in requiring their assent to a proposition for which they were not prepared. After that concession had been made to reason and to justice in consequence of the arguments that had been used—after the declaration by the right hon. Baronet that no man would be bound by an assent to the Resolution to more than an assent to bringing in a Bill for certain purposes, he had hoped that the matter would end. The provisions of that Bill would, no
 73 74 75
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  agreed with his noble Friend who last addressed the House in much of what he had said, but he differed from him in the principle which he considered involved in those Resolutions. He did think that there was something in the present Resolution, the assent to which would compromise a principle. He did not see why a simple Motion for leave to bring in a Bill founded on a part of the Resolution in the hands of the Chair should not be sufficient. This would have been a sufficient ground on which to found the whole question, without having recourse to a measure which would have the appearance to the country of having been founded on the adoption of the latter part of the Motion in the hands of the Chair. He thought that the object of the right hon. and gallant Member would be equally well answered if he were to withdraw his Motion and substitute one to bring in a Bill for the purpose of settling tithes in Ireland. Such a Motion might be disposed of without going into other matters. He would call on the right hon. Baronet to say why he would not adopt this course, and whether any valid objection existed to confining himself to a Resolution on which a Bill might be founded. This would relieve hon. Members at the Opposition side of the House from the difficulty under which they now laboured. He hoped, if this course were not adopted, that the House would not allow itself to be entrapped into a declaration on a subject to which the majority of its members might be opposed. The principle of the Resolution before the House involves the state of Ireland, and its peace and tranquillity, and whether a sinecure church should be imposed on the people who did pot use it, or whether they should consult
 76
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that if he felt that the course which he had proposed to pursue was inconsistent with the practice of the House, or with common sense, not all the taunts with which he had been met on former occasions, would prevent him from altering it; but, feeling, as he did, that the course which he had adopted was consistent with justice and with the usage of Parliament, he cared not for the consequences, and would persevere in that course. All he would ask was, the indulgence of the House in that stage of the debate, while he stated the grounds on which he determined to pursue that course. He had always understood, that, in matters relating to religion, it was necessary that any measure should be first introduced in a Committee of the whole House, and not in the shape of a Bill. In the Journals, amongst the rules by which the House was bound, he found this:—"That no Bill relating to religion, or to the altering of any matter relating to religion, shall be introduced into the House until it shall, in the first instance, have been introduced in the shape of a Resolution to a Committee of the whole House." Now, his right hon. Friend (Sir H. Hardinge) had acted in strict conformity with that rule, and well he knew that if they (the Government) had deviated from that rule—if they had avoided the details of their plan, and come forward in the more short way of a Bill, well did he know that they would have been told of their deviation from the usual practice of the House, and told by none more loudly than by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. S. Rice) opposite. They would have been asked, "Why don't you go, in the first instance, to a Com-
 77 78 l. 79 l. 80
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  begged to say that he was justified in rising, in consequence of the attack which the right hon. Baronet had made on his consistency. The right hon. Baronet had asked how any hon. Member could find any objection to the present Resolutions, if he had voted in favour of that upon which the measures of the late Government had been founded, and which was the same in substance with the present. He had voted for the former Resolution, which he was happy to hear now was the same in substance and spirit with the present, though the first had been by the right hon. Baronet's party opposed before in the Commons House of Parliament. He could not be justly charged upon the present occasion, because in the last Resolution, upon which alone he had voted, the question of appropriation was not raised by the Government. Where, he would ask, did the inconsistency rest, when there was now in power an Administration which a few nights ago by their head had declared itself to be averse to
 81
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that in answer to the observations of the right hon. Gentleman, he could only say that unfortunately an amendment was proposed to the Resolution, to which he by his vote had assented, the concluding expression of which was—[Mr.  P. Thomson:
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that practically speaking, there was no difference of opinion between the two sides of the House. The right hon. Secretary for Ireland wished to introduce his Bill. He (Mr. Rice) and the Gentlemen about him wished that he should have leave to introduce it, and did not desire to fetter his discretion at all in doing so. He (Mr. Rice) was taunted by the right hon. Gentleman for the circumstance of his having been Teller on a division upon a question, as he said, analogous to the present; but as he (Mr. Rice) said, different from it in many respects. But if the right hon. Gentleman gave him a precedent, he would allow him (Mr. Rice) to give him one in return. The right hon. Gentleman had appealed to the authority of the late Government in supporting the Bill which had been introduced. Into the history of that Bill it was not his object to enter. But he would observe that his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department was the originator of a great improvement in the tithe law system in Ireland, and which, if it had been carried into effect at the time he proposed it, might have been the means of preventing much of the evils which had since occurred. His right hon. Friend had introduced two Bills, one for the composition of tithes, and the other for the commutation of tithes, which went the full length in principle of the propositions now before the House. But what was the Parliamentary doctrine of his right hon. colleague who sat beside him? He said that this was a question
 82 83
 Mr. Hume  said, he had no objection to withdraw his Amendment, especially after what had occurred, and he therefore bowed to the suggestion of the right hon. Member for Cambridge.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that he believed no hon. Member could, by the rules of the House, withdraw an Amendment without its permission. He, however, should not, by raising a mere matter of form, stand in the way of any expression of feeling upon the subject which the House might think advisable or convenient to itself.
 Mr. Shaw : Mr. Baker asserted that on the 11th instant, in company with a client, and upon other business, he went to the office of Sir Robert Sidney, the agent for the sitting Member for Dublin; there he saw Mr. O'Connell, who desired Sir Robert Sidney to give Mr. Baker a notice that he was prepared to exchange a list of witnesses. When Mr. Baker was preparing to leave the office, Sir Robert Sidney asked, jokingly, "Do you mean to treat us with all the petitions?" The petitioner's answer was, "I do not know whether I do or not;" but fearing he might be misunderstood, he went back and addressed these words to Sir Robert Sidney and Mr. O'Connell: "I think it fair to tell you that if I complete the recognizances on the third petition (that of the 6th of March), I will let go the other; but it all depends upon your not turning me round upon a point of form." To prevent all mistake, he repeated these words a second time, and Sir Robert
 11
 Mr. Shaw  said, the sureties in the second and longer petition had been perfected; and the delay in reference to the third, and short petition, was solely owing to the opinion of the Examiners, that an extension of time was necessary to perfect the securities in it. He was, however, quite in the hands of the House.
 Mr. Shaw  requested an opportunity of presenting another Petition seriously affecting the character of an individual. It was from Mr. Baker, the agent for the Dublin petitions, who felt that he owed it as a duty to himself respectfully to submit an answer to the serious charge brought against him a few days ago. The hon. Member for Dublin had then stated that he had been misled and deceived by the agent who had made affidavit to the facts contained in his petition in reply. While he (Mr. Shaw) admitted at once the respect belonging to the assertion of a Member in his place—that it was equivalent to words spoken under the sanction of an oath; yet where the circumstances affected the character of a third person the House would not be guilty of so glaring an injustice as to refuse that third person the means of justification.
 Mr. Shaw  brought up the Report of the Examiners into the validity of the sureties in the Petition against the return for the city of Dublin, and moved, that the House should extend the time for perfecting the sureties till Wednesday next.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was not for him to say one word as to the course which the House might think fit to pursue on the subject. If he consulted his own personal feelings in the matter, he should regret that the hon. and learned Member had felt it to be his duty (for he was sure that it originated in a feeling of duty) to revive a matter with respect to which, as the hon. Member for Middlesex knew, all unpleasant feelings on both sides had been entirely obliterated. He felt perfectly satisfied that that hon. Member (Mr. Hume) had made use of expressions, at which any Gentleman would take offence, which they were not intended by him to give, and therefore he was sure, not intending them in that sense, the hon. Member for Middlesex was glad of an opportunity to remove any unpleasant impressions which had been produced on his mind. In the course of the very same night, the hon. and learned Member for the county of Cork referred to certain expressions stated to have been used by him (Sir R. Peel) on a former occasion, and he did not hesitate to assure the hon. and learned Member, that his impressions were altogether erroneous, and that he had never used expressions calculated in the slightest degree to wound his feelings. He would not go further into the question. But he should be very sorry, after having been a Member of that House for twenty years, having been engaged in angry party discussions, and speaking as warmly as any man, if it were thought that this matter deserved further notice. He was in the habit of avoiding personalities himself, and was as little disposed as any man to take offence at comments which might be made on his conduct as a Member of that House, or as a Minister of the Crown. But those who heard the debate were aware that the language which had been used, was applied not as discreditable to Government, but personally to himself, as pursuing a course which was inconsistent with the conduct of a man of honour. Such language being used, if unintentionally, he thought the hon. Member would be glad of an opportunity of retracting or
 101
 Lord John Russell  said, certain expressions had been used by the hon. Member for Middlesex, towards the right hon. Baronet, (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), and that right hon. Baronet had desired to give the hon. Member an opportunity to explain, and there could not be a more proper course. He was not in the House at the time the expressions were used, and therefore, he could not say what took place; but he was sorry when any expressions of a personal nature were used, as they did not tend to raise the character of the House. When expressions were used that demanded the interference of the House, he always wished the House to use its power, as it had done during the last Session, in the case of Lord Althorp and another hon. Member (Mr. Sheil). He thought that no hon. Member in the House was more cautious of giving personal offence than the right hon. Baronet (the Chancellor of the Exchequer). He hoped the House would go no further in this matter.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Attwood) has himself been guilty under the same act, for he certainly inflicted pain on me, with a blunt instrument.
 Lord John Russell  begged to put question to the right hon. Baronet, as to the course he meant to follow in bringing up the report on the resolution which had been agreed to the other night, on the subject of Tithes in Ireland. He believed there was no disposition to throw any impediment in the way of the introduction of the Bill; but, at the same time, there were some hon. Members on that side of the House who might wish to accompany their vote in that respect with some explanations, in order to let it be understood that they were not pledged by that Resolution to the views of the measure when it might be introduced. As the report could not be brought up early tonight, he hoped some other evening would be set apart for its reception. He also took that opportunity of stating, that his wish was to bring forward the whole question of the appropriation of Irish church, property on Monday next, according to the notice which he had given; and it was also his intention to enforce, on that occasion, the call of the House. He hoped that the right hon. Baronet would not object, for the convenience of all parties, to its being brought forward as a substantive motion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was very sorry to observe that the practice was increasing every week, to take the supply days for motions. The time of the House was absorbed with discussions, leaving no day for the transaction of the public business. Still he was very much indisposed to take any course which might be against the general feeling of the House. As far as the day was concerned on which the Motion was to be brought forward, the noble Lord having given notice of it very early in the Session, and as he might insist on his right, an extreme right, which, on public considerations might be productive of inconvenience, and especially as in consequence of the order for the call of the House, many hon. Members must have made their arrangements to meet it, he (Sir R. Peel) would oppose no obstacle to the noble Lord in bringing forward his Motion on Monday. With respect, how-
 103 l.
 Lord John Russell  had no objection to that course. Many Gentlemen, however, could not consent to the Report without expressing their opinions with regard to it. But he had no wish to prevent the Bill from being brought in. He thought that an hour might perhaps be all that would be required for the discussion, if it were taken now.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  hoped the House would not prejudge the question of appropriation, and deprecated the present discussion as highly inconvenient. The hon. and learned Gentleman had stated some instances in which public grants of money had been made without Ireland's participating in the benefit; but there were several others which he might also have cited. For instance, 250,000 l.
 Lord John Russell  rose to order. He said, that the hon. Member (Mr. Barron) had alluded only to the political conduct of the right hon. Gentlemen opposite, and could not have intended to offer them any personal offence. He suggested that the hon. Gentleman should explain.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that if the House affirmed the Resolutions his right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland would be enabled to bring in the Bill, with the clauses respecting the nonpayment of the instalments due at present by the clergy to the Treasury, and remission of that amount, together with the apportionment of the residue of the million, 370,000 l. 105
 Mr. O'Connell  thought the Bill might be introduced with the clause as to the money grant printed in italics; it would be quite competent for them afterwards to move that clause in the shape of a Resolution in a Committee of the whole House. His opinion was in favour of a remission of the instalments; and he would take the million, superseding as it would the necessity of levying tithes on the people as  pro tanto 106 107 108 109
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that if the objection adverted to by the last speaker were taken, he should not persevere in offering to it any opposition. He had only further to observe, that one of the reasons which determined him to proceed by resolution was, that he had not given notice of his intention to introduce a Bill, and he thought the Resolution would best serve the purposes of a notice. Besides that, there was nothing in the Resolution which did not admit of being reconsidered, and there would be time enough for that purpose between that and the 30th of March. He was anxious, he confessed, to have the Bill introduced, and in the hands of Members, for it could not but be satisfactory to them, as it would be to him, that they should be made fully aware of its provisions. It was, he assured the House, by no means a matter of choice that led Ministers to adopt that additional stage in the proceedings. There could be no natural love on the part of Government to additional stages, but he was sure the House would agree with him, that looking to past precedents, and especially to that established in the case of the measure introduced by Lord Althorp—he meant the Irish Church Temporalities Bill—it would have been impossible for him to have done otherwise than propose a Resolution in a Committee of the whole House. Lord Althorp's Bill, as every hon. Member must recollect, had its origin in a Resolution of a Committee of the whole House. Influenced, then, by such considerations, he felt that he could not depart from the course which he had originally prescribed to himself—a course perfectly in accordance with the usages of Parliament, and as he conceived with the obvious convenience of the House, as well of individual Members.
 Colonel Evans  said, that divesting what had been said by the hon. Member (Mr. Barron) of all offence and all personality, he would not shrink from declaring that he entirely concurred in the opinion of the present Government, which was held by that hon. Member. He had no disposition to use any expression which could be personally offensive, but as he had taken opportunities of adverting to the public political conduct of his Majesty's present Ministry, on the hustings and elsewhere, and as what occurred here might lead to a conclusion out of doors that they (the Opposition Members) shrunk in the House from expressions used there and elsewhere, and as he found that a kind of bravado was used on the other side, he felt it necessary to avow there, and to repeat, if necessary, all that he had said elsewhere, as to the public conduct of the Members of his Majesty's Government, and, he must say, that the right hon. and gallant Officer (Sir Henry Hardinge) had more than once taken the course of endeavouring to intimidate, to which he had just referred. There, for instance, was the case of Lord Londonderry's mission, which was before the House the other evening, and when not one word was said against that noble Lord, that could by implication be considered personally offensive, the right hon. and gallant Officer stated, that if anything had been said against that noble Lord, he should have felt it his duty to notice it, and this, too, when it could not be supposed that the right hon. and gallant Officer was excited by the heat of debate, for it was after the debate on that subject was over, and when the right hon. and gallant Officer was quite cool.
 An Hon. Member  rose to order. He would appeal to the Chair, and ask whether the course which the hon. and gallant Officer was pursuing, had anything whatever to do with the subject of debate before the House.
 Colonel Evans  said, that the reference to previous debates, was a matter of daily occurrence. He would not go out of his way, or refer to any other subject. He referred to a case in point, which occurred a few days ago. On that occasion, the right hon. and gallant Officer did refer to what took place in a previous debate, and was allowed to do so without interruption, by those hon. Members opposite, who were now so loud in calling "order." Those assertors of Reform on the other (the Ministerial) side, had said, that if any one had said anything against the character of Lord Londonderry, they would have felt it necessary to notice it. [ "Order!"
 Colonel Evans  was at a loss to know the cause of the interruption he had experienced. He had risen to explain, and looking to the transactions of the last two or three days, he would say, that it behoved those who looked to their characters, and who were in the habit of expressing themselves as to the conduct of public men, not to shrink from an avowal of those opinions, and so far from accusing hon. Members at his, (the Opposition) side of the House, of irregularity, in referring to their public conduct, he thought that Ministers ought to thank them for their forbearance. He thought the conduct of the right hon. Gentlemen opposite (Sir Robert Peel and Sir Henry Hardinge) was most extraordinary, for he would assert that their conduct as public men, exhibited a most flagitious instance of dereliction of public principle. He should be glad to
 123 modicum
 Colonel Evans : The right hon. and gallant Officer had said, that the words he used on the occasion referred to, were, that if the honour of his noble Friend had been attacked, he should have felt it his duty to vindicate it. He (Colonel Evans) was sitting down in the House at the time, and he owned that the words, as they struck his ear, were not like those which the right hon. and gallant Officer said he had used; but having said, that the right hon. and gallant Officer had used them, he could not doubt that they were the exact words; but as to the rest of the right hon. and gallant Officer's remarks, he must protest against the course which the right hon. Gentleman had taken. He had not attributed any personal or unworthy motives to the right hon. and gallant Officer, and yet the right hon. and gallant Officer said, that "if he had, he would have resented it." Every one who knew the high character of the right hon. and gallant Officer, could have no doubt of his personal valour, but he could assure him, that the disposition to which he alluded, afforded no proof of it.
 An Hon. Member  asid that, he took some of the observations of the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster to apply to him. That hon. and gallant Member, and others at his side of the House, had spoken of the inconsistency of Members at his (the Ministerial) side; and one ground of that charge was the different votes given with respect to "appropriation:" but hon. Gentlemen opposite, if they carried their memories back, would find that many of them were more inconsistent than his Majesty's Ministers could possibly be. Did hon. Members forget what had been said by a right hon. Gentleman who had been a Member of the late Government? On the discussion of the Catholic Question, the hon. and learned Member for Southwark, then the Member for Colchester (Mr. Harvey)—and having mentioned that hon. Member's name, he felt it due to him and due to himself to take the opportunity, which he gladly embraced, of doing him justice. [A  Member:
 The Hon. Member  said, that he would take another opportunity of doing the hon. and learned Member for Southwark justice. But to proceed; when the Ca-
 126
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : After the course which this debate has taken, notwithstanding, at a previous period of the evening, questions were put to me to which I gave answers, not expecting that any discussion would ensue, but taking it for grauted, that we should come to an early decision on the subject, and that the public and political conduct of Government would not be called in question, the House will probably not insist on the rigid rule of order, and preclude me, because I then spoke, from making a few observations on what has fallen from the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster. I understood the hon. and gallant Member in the latter part of his speech to declare, that while he asserted his right to condemn in as strong terms as he pleased, the public conduct of Ministers, he by no means intended to indulge in any personal or offensive allusions to them. Now, Sir, although I think, that if in the heat of debate, expressions should be used reflecting on the honour of any individual Member, it is highly proper, for the satisfaction of the persons using such expressions, as well as for the satisfaction of the persons towards whom they are used, and for the satisfaction of the House, that an opportunity should be given for disclaiming all intention of offence. I, at the same time, fully admit the right of any Member of this House to question, to the fullest extent, the conduct of Members of his Majesty's Government as public men. I now speak, then, with reference to the construction which I believe the hon. and gallant Member put
 127 128
 Colonel Evans  said, that he had never charged this Government with adopting every principle of the preceding Government; quite the reverse. He had never thought that the Dissenters' Bill, even when brought in by the late Government, was a measure of Reform for which they could claim any great merit.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : The charge, then, of the hon. and gallant Member against me, amounts to this:—"The right hon. Baronet always opposed the great measures of his predecessors, and he does so still." It is a strange way of charging me with inconsistency, to say, that I am pursuing the same course in office that I did when in opposition. "You oppose the liberal measures of your predecessors, you have brought in my modicum of Reform," says the hon. and gallant Member, "and the country therefore rejects you; your measures and politics are not sufficiently liberal for the spirit of the age, and your hours are numbered." This may be a perfectly good accusation; but how is it consistent with that other, earnestly insisted upon, that, for the sake of place, I have adopted the principles of my predecessors; that I have submitted extensive Reforms to the House, for the purpose of retaining the emoluments or distinctions of office? So much for the general principles of the Government. Now with respect to this particular measure, regarding tithes in Ireland. I have heard charges made against me with respect to the course I have pursued on the question of commutation of tithes in Ireland, which can only be founded in utter ignorance—for I should rather attribute them to ignorance, than intentional misrepresentation—of
 129 130 131 132
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  Rathcormac had not then occurred.
 Colonel Evans  said, he was bound to acknowledge that the right hon. Baronet had well defended himself from the charge of inconsistency on this particular measure, which he, (Colonel Evans) never looked upon as a very great reform; but the right hon. Baronet had only succeeded by throwing overboard all his colleagues and supporters.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said that, his right hon. Friend assumed him to have approved of the Bill of August last year; but he objected to it. He did not object to the Bill of February; and he would venture to say that if the Bill of February had been presented to the House of Lords, his impression was that it would have been passed. The Bill which his colleagues in the House of Lords rejected was the Bill of August last, which contained no redemption clause and admitted 40 per cent. [Mr.  Littleton:
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn  said, that as there was no disposition on the part of Government to oppose the appointment of a Committee, he thought the present discussion uncalled for, and that it was scarcely necessary for himself or his right hon. Friends to make any observation on the subject. On a former occasion he had stated, that whatever Addresses were presented during his occupation of office had been treated precisely in accordance with previous precedents. The general rule and practice at the Home-office was this—where Addresses were forwarded, approving of the course taken by the existing Government, the answer was invariably that given in the cases complained of by the hon. Member for Middlesex, so where Addresses supported views to which it might be supposed from the policy of Government the Crown was opposed, the other course of a simple acknowledg-
 148
 Mr. Goulburn  would not be tempted to enter into a discussion of the subject; but he was perfectly ready to meet particular charges. That the Brotherhood Club was an Orange Society he solemnly declared, he did not know till he heard the hon. and learned Gentleman assert it. Were there no Clubs that occasionally addressed the King—Odd Fellows and others? And how were they to be discriminated? He would lay the Address of the Brotherhood Club on the table, to show that it afforded no evidence of proceeding from an Orange Society; the answer had been given under that impression. With respect to the other Address of the Orange Lodge, No. 903, if the hon. and learned Gentleman looked carefully at the answer, he would see that it avoided any recognition of the Society, and simply acknowledged the receipt of the Address as that of the individuals who signed it. He complained of the unfair imputations of a design to encourage and maintain Orange Societies. Such a charge was unfounded when made against the Government, and especially unjust when directed against an individual who, as the hon. Member for Tipperary admitted, had introduced measures to put down those Societies; and at a time when the attempt entailed on him much undeserved unpopularity.
 Mr. Cole  said, an hon. Member opposite had alluded to an outrage that recently took place in Enniskillen (the town he had the honour to represent). He could tell the hon. Gentleman, that the transaction occurred in consequence of an irruption of several thousand Ribandmen from Leitrim and adjoining counties. He would not undertake to say, who were right, or who were wrong on that occasion; but this he knew, that the sufferers were Protestants—one individual being killed on the spot, and another mortally wounded.
 Mr. Divett , as an English Member, protested against the 1,000,000 l.
 Mr. Littleton  hoped his right hon. Friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) would give him credit when he said that no individual could be less prone than himself to impute to him motives of action not founded on principles of the highest honour. He had had the honour of being in some degree privately acquainted with the right hon. Baronet—for many years they had acted in each other's presence, and sometimes in concert, and he had never noticed any thing that could lead him to suppose the right hon. Baronet pursued any but the most honourable conduct; but he must take the liberty of reminding the right hon. Baronet of what he appeared on this occasion to have altogether forgotten, viz., that he had colleagues in the Cabinet. He knew, and so did all the world, the extreme caution with which, during the last Session of Parliament, his right hon. Friend expressed himself on most public questions; and upon none did he express himself with greater caution than upon the Irish tithe Question. But, nevertheless his right hon. Friend was undoubtedly associated with gentlemen in this and the other House of Parliament—the latter especially—the justification of whose consistency would be extremely difficult, and any attempt at which the House would not, he was certain, hear from his right hon. Friend. But to deal fairly and frankly with his right hon. Friend, he must tell him that his conduct with respect to this very Bill did not stand quite clear from the charge of inconsistency. Like the right hon. and learned Recorder, the Member for the University of Dublin, sitting behind him, his right hon. friend contended that the measure proposed by the present chief Secretary for Ireland resembled greatly, in its principal features, the Bill submitted to this House in February last. But the right hon. and learned Recorder added, and so, he believed, did the right hon. the Chancellor
 134 135
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  wished to make a few observations upon the subject before the House. He really had hoped that such a measure as that then before the House—a measure, the effect of which would be to transfer to the Church something little short of the third part of the lands of Ireland in fee—would have been better considered before it was proposed, and would have been introduced in a manner totally different from that in which it had been submitted to the House. He would make bold to say, that the Bill would altogether fail in attaining the object which its promoters proposed to themselves, though perfectly willing at the same time to give the Bill and its author (the right hon. Baronet opposite) full credit for all that they deserved; but when he looked at it and saw the manner in which it dealt with the loan of the million, he found it impossible to apply to it the language of approbation. One effect of the measure certainly would be most prejudicial as regarded those by whom the arrears to constitute that million had to be paid, and he could of his own knowledge declare, that the smaller the tenement, the more severely would the pressure of the demand bear upon the poor tenants, many of whom paid from 10 s. s. 112 l. l. 113 114 l. s. 115
 Mr. Shaw  said, that, having been alluded to by the hon. Gentleman as a person who had forfeited principles for place, he begged to observe, that he was not aware of any elevation to place which had attended his removal from the opposite side of the House to that on which he then sat, nor had he deserted any principle which he had formerly professed. On the subject to which the hon. Member had particularly alluded, his opinions had not suffered the slightest change; and, with great respect to that hon. Gentleman, he must be allowed to say, that he (Mr Barron) did not seem to know anything at all about the measure on which he had been speaking so energetically. He had been evidently confounding in his mind the first Tithe Bill of the late Administration with their second Tithe Bill; and obviously he was equally ignorant of the principles and details of both, as he was of those of the present measure. The present Bill was like the first Bill, with a slight difference, which went in favour of the occupying tenant, and was against the landlord. It was not similar to—it was extremely unlike—the second Bill, which was the Bill in the hon. Gentleman's mind, and that to which he had alluded. And as for himself, he (Mr. Shaw) had repeated essentially the observations this year which he had made before. He had re-stated in the substance what he had said about throwing the payment on the landlord, but did not think that he should be justified in opposing the Bill, in consequence of feeling the objection to particular provisions of it which he entertained.
 Mr. Frederick Villiers  would just say a few words in reference to what had fallen from the hon. Member. What he did say was, that he was sent for on one of the days of the election, to witness from a house opposite five clergymen endeavouring to tamper with two electors, who had declined to vote. He did not mention the hour at which that had occurred. He had mentioned another instance where he was informed, that at seven o'clock in the morning three clergymen, one of them the brother of the right hon. Baronet, at the head of the Government, were seen tampering with a coach proprietor, and endeavouring to get him to vote for the Government candidate. He had every reason to know, that the clergy in Canterbury had acted with the greatest zeal against him. Twenty-
 97
 Mr. Goring : On the part of my constituents, I have no hesitation in saying, that the political conduct of the hon. Gentlemen opposite (on the Treasury bench) exhibits a gross dereliction of principle, and is disreputable and dishonourable. [ Cries of "Order, order!" and cheers.
 Mr. Barron  said, that conceiving that the honour of every Member was best placed in the hands of the Speaker, he would, under his directions, retract the expressions he had used, and apologize for having used them.
 Mr. Barron  arose amid renewed cries of "order, order!" and said with much vehemence, "I can only say, that I believe in my conscience what I have said to be true."
 Mr. Barron  said, that if the gallant Officer alluded to him, he treated his observations with the utmost contempt. He threw back the gallant officer's imputation with scorn.
 Mr. Barron : So far as the House is concerned, I have no hesitation in giving the fullest apology. With respect to the expression which I made use of, I can only say, that I never spoke of individuals; but if any individual thought fit to take it to himself, I have no apology to offer.
 Mr. Barron  remarked, that the changes which had taken place in the opinions and conduct of hon. Gentlemen on the Ministerial Benches were wonderful in the extreme. He found, in a publication called the  Mirror of Parliament 117 l. 118 "Hos ego versiculos feci, tulit alter honores! "Sic vos non vobis nidificatis aves!
 Mr. Barron : No; and that only proves that it is as bad to place the burden upon the landlord now as it was then.
 Mr. Barron  begged to say one word in explanation. The right hon. Baronet had misrepresented what he had said. He stated that the principle of the measure now before the House was, to place the burden of the tithes on the landlord. He then quoted the words employed by the right hon. Baronet last year, and showed that the circumstances of Ireland were in no way changed, except in the opposition to tithes having become greater, since the right hon. Baronet made his observations upon the very principle which was now at stake before the House—viz., that it was impossible, in the language of the right hon. Baronet, to fix the payment of tithes upon the landlord until the law had been vindicated. That the right hon. Baronet had not explained, but, with his usual dexterity, he had wandered into a variety of matters unconnected with the charge.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  objected to the terms in which Mr. Finn had couched his Motion, and complained that it did not go far enough, inasmuch as it did not give the Committee power to inquire into the tendency of the Orange Associations to frustrate the administration of justice in Ireland. The House had already appointed Committees to inquire into the state of society in Ireland. Those Committees had instituted long examinations, and made voluminous Reports; and, as the right hon. Secretary well knew, nothing had been done upon those Reports. This, as it had occurred before, might occur again. The House would perhaps excuse him, if, with that circumstance in his recollection, he now mentioned a number of cases which had happened within his own knowledge, in which the due course of justice had been frustrated by the influence of these Associations. He would commence by referring to what had recently taken place in his own county of Meath. It appeared that the son of an individual who had been recently promoted to the Lord-lieutenancy of that county, had been guilty of the conduct which he was now about to describe. A number of Orangemen, linked arm-in-arm together, and wearing their usual insignia, passed by a Magistrate of that county, as he was going to Church. Not knowing them, he asked where they were going; but he received no
 144 145 Question! 146
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, that as the discussion on these Orange Associations had been so frequent during the present
 143
 Sir Henry Hardinge  was understood, amidst loud cries of "Order!" to say that that was not correct.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, that as an indirect allusion had been made to the exhibition of an Orange flag in a box above that in which the Lord-lieutenant sat on his visit to the theatre, he begged to say, that Lord Haddington was much displeased at the occurrence, and on the following day the Lord Mayor called on Lord Haddington, and expressed his regret at what had taken place. He would only ask hon. Members opposite, how Lord Haddington could have prevented the exhibition which was complained of?
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, that he had received a letter in reference to a statement made by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, on a former evening, relative to Mr. Robinson, a statement to which he (Sir Henry Hardinge) did not attach much importance at the time. The writer (Mr. Robinson) stated, that the hon. and learned Member was altogether incorrect in his allusions to him—that he was not an Orangeman or Member of any Conservative Society, and that he had not the honour to be nephew to Lord Farnham. He could also state, that the individuals mentioned as being improperly appointed by the Lord-lieutenant were not Orangemen or partisans, as stated by the hon. Member. The fact was, that in every act of the Government there was the utmost desire to treat Orangemen and Ribandmen with the strictest impartiality. The hon. Member for Meath had alluded to a murder
 150
 Sir Henry Hardinge , who spoke amidst much noise and confusion, was understood to say, that, after the very coarse invective
 119 Cries of "Chair!" and "Order!"
 Sir Henry Hardinge : I am at all times, Sir, ready to give the House any explanation in my power, when it appears to me that they require it. I have, therefore, no hesitation in saying, that when I was charged with bringing forward a measure merely through a base love of holding office, and when it was stated that, in introducing that measure, I acted upon different principles from those which guided me on former occasions, I say I should be unworthy of standing in the position in which I have the honour to be placed, or, indeed, of any position in this House, if I did not meet the invective which was pronounced against me by declaring it to be most unfounded and untrue. I might have used, perhaps, a word different from "untrue." At the same time, when such motives are attributed to me, as one of his Majesty's Ministers, I feel it incumbent on me to repel the insinuation with indignation.
 Sir H. Hardinge  begged the hon. and learned Gentleman not to suppose that it was from any disrespect to him, that he declined entering into a discussion upon the subject. Ample opportunity would be afforded hereafter of considering the whole question; and as the army Estimates were appointed for this evening, he thought it would be imprudent in him to delay them by offering observations upon another matter. One remark, however, he would make in reply to the hon. and learned Gentleman's allusion to the Protestant clergy, and their desire to make use of the military in the collection of tithes. He could assure the House, that he had received a great number of letters from Protestant clergymen, in which they expressed their deep and conscientious repugnance to levying their tithes by military force, and declared, that they had rather remain in their present poverty and misery than resort to violent measures.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, that conceiving the explanation of the hon. Member to be satisfactory, understanding that it was meant to be perfectly satisfactory, he would at once express his regret at his warmth of his expressions,
 Sir Henry Hardinge  asked, whether his previous conduct had shown any disposition to repel charges not made? What he had said, was, that he would understand charges in a political sense when so made, but that he would notice only those which personally attributed unworthy motives to him in his public conduct. The hon. and gallant Officer (Colonel Evans), had himself too high a sense of
 125
 Sir Henry Hardinge  rose to explain. The hon. and gallant Officer had assumed what he supposed him to have said with respect to Lord Londonderry. Now, what he had said, was, that if any expressions
 124
 Mr. Henry Maxwell  rose with great pleasure to second the Motion of the hon. Member for Kilkenny. He was himself an Orangeman, and proud of avowing it. Like the hon. Member, he prayed for the fullest inquiry, and hoped that the Committee to which such inquiry was intrusted, would be constituted in the most impartial manner. He concluded by expressing a hope that Government would have no objection to grant the proposed Committee.
 Mr. Warburton  concurred in the suggestion which had been thrown out respecting the convenience of printing the money portion of the Bill in italics, and then submitting that portion afterwards to a Committee of the whole House.
 The Speaker  said, that the proper time for explanation for one hon. Member was, when the Member addressing the House, had concluded. He must now say, that the House had completely lost sight of the question before them, and he put it to the good sense of hon. Members, whether they ought not to return to that question.
 The Speaker  was understood to require a more ample and satisfactory apology from the hon. Gentleman.
 The Speaker  said, that freedom of debate was never more secure than when the discussion of the debates in this House were conducted with temper and decorum, and, was never in greater danger than when hon. Members permitted themselves to use expressions which they might have reason afterwards to repent. From the course which the discussion had taken he regretted, he took blame to himself, for not having interfered sooner, and called the hon. Member to order at the moment, for using expressions that a gentleman ought not to have used. But he was fearful of giving more importance to the matter by interfering, than it, perhaps, deserved. He now felt bound to say, that any Member, who said, that any man acted basely, or from base motives, used an expression which he ought not to have used, and that hon. Member should recollect that, in doing so, he offended not only against the individual Member whom he so improperly assailed, but also committed a grave offence against the House. He was sure, that hon. Member, having so offended, would discharge his duty by apologizing for the offensive expressions he had used.
 The Speaker  said, that the rule, as laid down by the right hon. Gentleman, was in strict conformity with the rules of the House, and he anxiously wished that the practice of the House was in strict conformity with that rule; but it was well known that it was the common practice of the House to refer to previous debates, and to opinions delivered in them. This was the practice; but if particular words of former debates were referred to, it would not be regular.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, he rose to call attention to a Breach of Privilege greatly affecting this House, and committed by the right hon. Baronet, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The Speaker of the House had asked, and obtained, at the opening of the Session, perfect freedom of debate within its walls; but it made little difference whether that freedom was effected by the Crown, or by the Ministers of the Crown; for the right hon. Baronet (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had called upon the hon. and learned Member for Middlesex(Mr. Hume) to account out of the House, for words spoken in it. Hon. Members were sent into that House to express all their opinions as public men, and in so doing, they were acting in the performance of a public duty. Should he offer to form an opinion of any man, particularly Ministers of the Crown, as to whether they were pursuing a course fitting Members of that House, it was not only his privilege, but his duty, to express that opinion; and it was most important that not any one should be permitted by means of threats or intimidation of any kind whatsoever to induce hon. Members to depart from that expression. He would say, if called upon to express an opinion as to the course of the right hon. Baronet (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), in reference to his late proceedings, as a Minister of the Crown, compared with his proceedings as one of the Opposition of the late Parliament, he should have felt it his duty to express himself as the right hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. Hume) had done, and he claimed the right to tell the House, and the right hon. Baronet, that he held such an opinion; and as that was his opinion, was it come to that pass, that threats of swords and pistols were to be used, and was there to be calling out to mortal duel; and that, too, by so high an authority as a Minister
 98 The hon. Member having concluded without making any Motion, there were loud cries of "What do you move?" and laughter." laughter. "House of Commons, "March 20, Friday Evening. "SIR—In the course of the debate, this evening, I understood you to make use of expressions of which the purport was, that I was pursuing a course with respect to the measure then under discussion, that was inconsistent with the conduct of a man of honour. "Thinking it probable, that such expressions
 99 "I have the honour to be, Sir, your obedient servant, "ROBERT PEEL." "Joseph Hume, Esq., M.P."
 Mr. Hume  was anxious to see the Bill of the right hon. Baronet, in order to see if anything would be done by it for that unfortunate country. It was with that view that he should support the Resolution for the purpose of enabling the right hon. Baronet to bring in his Bill. There was, however, matter in the Resolutions which he should most strongly object to; for instance, the purchase of land out of commutation money. It was a principle disapproved of by the last Parliament, and would be alike injurious to the clergy and
 104
 Mr. Hume  thought it most extraordinary that the right hon. Baronet and his Majesty's advisers should have counselled his Majesty to receive certain Addresses in the most gracious manner, and others, though of a perfectly legal character, scarcely to be acknowledged at all. Orange Addresses were received in the most gra-
 147
 Mr. Sheil : The right hon. Gentleman stated his desire to avoid a recognition of Orange Societies, but he called the right hon. Gentleman's notice to one answer, which stated—"I have had the honour to lay before the King, the loyal and dutiful Address of the Brotherhood Club." Was not that a recognition of an Orange Society? Another answer was—"I have had the honour to lay before the King the loyal and dutiful Address signed by yourself (the Secretary) and others of the Orange Lodge No. 903." Yet, in the face of these replies, the right hon. Gentleman ventured to deny his recognition of Orange Lodges. In his opinion, the Government had clearly manifested a disposition to sanction such Societies. Persons holding the highest offices in them were courted and promoted. This was the charge brought against Ministers. Did the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department forget a Motion formerly made by a Member of the present Cabinet, a Mr. Goulburn, for a Committee to inquire into the Constitution of Societies calling themselves Orangemen, though the Government to which the right hon. Gentleman now be-
 149
 Mr. Sheil  thought it quite impossible that the arrear of tithe ever could be raised; and that the entire 1,000,000 l. l. l. 116
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  thought, that when loyal and dutiful Addresses (such as he had been intrusted with by his countrymen) were presented, in which the Ministers in whom his Majesty had reposed confidence up to the 15th of November last were approved of, they ought to be received with the common forms of acknowledgment, as well as Addresses from Orangemen, in which those Ministers were termed "revolutionary."
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  hoped the House would allow him to say a few words. He thanked the right hon. Baronet (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) for the Jury Bill he had given the country, he also thanked him for another Bill which he had passed about ten years ago. In so doing, he acted properly, virtuously, and honestly; in that Bill he had made it capital felony, without benefit of clergy, for one Gentleman to pull a trigger upon another. He hoped the right hon. Baronet would not forget his own child. He had made it murder to kill another, or to inflict pain by a blunt instrument. The right hon. Baronet had acted with manliness, and the hon. Member for Bath might be well advised to withdraw his motion.
 Mr. Gisborne  put a question to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, which we could not catch; in answer to which,
 Mr. Gisborne  observed, that an attempt had been made to set up a distinction between the Resolution of a Committee of the whole House on the subject of a vote of money and on any other subject, it having been contended, that that alone was binding on the House and on individual Members which related to pecuniary grants. If that doctrine prevailed, he confessed he did not see how they could get out even of that Resolution upon which the intended Bill was proposed to be founded, for it professed to deal, first, with 670,000 l. l. 110
 Mr. Spring Rice  did not think that was a proper time for a motion of that description, nor did he think it was one of those questions on which the House would be disposed to interpose its authority. He was one of the last persons who would wish to have the present discussion introduced. He did entirely dissent from the principle laid down by the hon. Member for Bath. He did not speak particularly with reference to the present motion; but as a Member of Parliament, he could not admit the principle advanced by the hon. Member. If, in personal discussions in that House, hon. Members made use of expressions contrary to their honour and feelings, the principle, as laid down by the hon. Member for Bath, would preclude Members altogether from explanation. They were not an assemblage of gladiators—they were not an assembly of cut-throats, but an assembly of Gentlemen. He did not wish that they should be under no control in the sentiments they expressed. When, a few days ago, an hon. Gentleman and he had some altercation during a debate, he was not one, and considering the matter in the abstract, who would have thought rightly of himself for taking shelter under the privileges of the House for the expression of such opinions. He could not say what gave rise to the correspondence then before the House, but he would, entreat the House not to be induced to enter into discussions of that description. He meant nothing disrespectful to the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Roebuck), but he would entreat the House not to go into or entertain the question upon the principles laid down by the hon. Mover. He thought if the question were
 100
 Mr. Wyse  corroborated the statement of the noble Lord, as to the increase of Orange Societies since the accession to office of the present Government. It was not sufficient that Members of the Administration deprecated such things, the House and the country looked not to their words, but their acts. It was seen how the Government deprecated an Orange outrage in the theatre of Dublin! Had a green flag been exhibited at the theatre over the Marquess Wellesley's head, with an inscription of "No tithes," and if no notice were taken of the transaction, we should have heard the Whig Government denounced as "revolutionary" by the Orange party. When like conduct was displayed by Orangemen, why had there not been a word of reproof from the Lord-lieutenant?
 Mr. Finn  rose to move, as an Amendment for a Select Committee, to inquire into the nature, character, extent, and tendency of Orange lodges, associations, or societies in Ireland, and to report their opinion thereon to the House, of which he had given notice. He did not anticipate that his motion would be opposed by
 136 Dublin Evening Mail. 137 138 Dublin Evening Mail. 139 140 141 Evening Mail. l. l. 142
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  begged, after the attack which had been made on his Majesty's Ministers, to call the attention of the House to the state of the debate. He was sure that he spoke the sense of a large majority of the House, when he said, that the interposition which had been most properly made by the Chair, ought to have put an end to the discussion, and brought the House back to the actual question before it. They (the Government) had no disposition to make hostile charges; and he hoped that those which had been made, would not be carried further. They were before the House with the measures which they had introduced, and they wished to carry on the business of the country; but if it was impeded, the fault would not rest with them. He knew the disposition of a large number of the Gentlemen opposite towards the Government; but he also knew the firm position which they (the Ministers) occupied in the confidence of the House, and the still more firm position which they occupied in the confidence of the country, and by those they were prepared to abide.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  said, he had been intrusted with a Petition from certain freemen of Canterbury, to which he would call the particular attention of the House. It had reference to a petition which had been presented the other evening by the hon. Member opposite, complaining of undue interference on the part of certain persons in the late Canterbury election. No sooner did the intelligence of the presentation of that petition, and of the statements contained in it, reach Canterbury than the present petition was prepared, which denied  in toto 96
 Mr. Ward  was rejoiced to find, that his Majesty's Government had done justice to the Motion before the House, by admitting the necessity of the inquiry asked for. He had strong feelings on the subject, and he would tell the gallant Officer, that he had derived his opinions from that which the gallant Officer would consider a legitimate source. He took his impressions from a work of the noble Lord the Member for Hertford, who published some years ago—a work entitled " Three Months in Ireland, by a Protestant." Lord Mahon rose, but was called to "Order." 152
 Mr. Ward  said, that the noble Lord, whilst disclaiming personalities, had made an attack upon him which was most unfounded and untrue. He would not deny that in the course of his mission to Mexico, circumstances occurred, which, though most painful to his feelings, were not injurious to his character. He acknowledged frankly, and fully, that he committed an error upon that occasion; but Mr. Canning, in, he believed, one of the last letters he ever wrote, told him, that he was perfectly satisfied with his explanation regarding it, and that he stood as high in his estimation as before. That was his distinct answer to the charge which the noble Lord, flushed he supposed with a few weeks' possession of office, had most unfairly, most wantonly, if not cruelly, brought against one, who never injured him. The noble Lord seemed to think, that he (Mr. Ward) had brought a charge against him by erroneously attributing to him the authorship of a pamphlet, of the opinions contained in which the noble Lord needed not to be ashamed. He was led into the mistake in consequence of seeing the noble Lord mentioned as the author in the pamphlet which the noble Lord had referred to, and when he sent to his bookseller for "Lord Mahon's work on Ireland," he sent him the " Three Months in Ireland."
 Sir Samuel Whalley  also protested against the 1,000,00 l.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  wished to say, as an appeal to the "order" of the House had been made, that it was decidedly contrary to the first order of the House to refer to words used in a former debate. He would contend, that if words spoken in debate were to be referred to, they must be questioned on the night they were used; but if not on that night, it could not be questioned after, and he would appeal to the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair if this were not so.
 Lord Clements  said, that he had received a letter from Leitrim only the other day, stating the great increase of Orange Lodges since the accession of the present
 151
 Lord Mahon  felt quite sure, that after a charge so personal, and so unexpected, as that which had just been brought against him by the hon. Member for St. Alban's, the House, with that regard for justice, which he had always observed a British House of Commons disposed to manifest towards private individuals, would allow him to trespass on their attention for a very few moments. He had been accused of being the author of a work called " Three Months in Ireland." 153 Cries of "Name."
 Lord Mahon  said, he would at once declare, that the transaction to which he alluded, in no degree affected the personal character of the hon. Member. He regretted that he had alluded to the subject at all; but he felt that he had himself been personally attacked. Again he must express his regret that he had alluded to the matter in question.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the question of moduses had been very much narrowed by the late Lord Tenterden's Act. His desire would be to leave the matter always to the consent of parties. If they wished to avoid expense, he would encourage them to be guided by the commission; but if they insisted on a trial by jury, there would be no objection.
 Lord John Russell  observed that no man was usually more unwilling than himself to bring a breach of privilege before the House or to complain of unintentional mistakes, committed by the gentlemen who report for the press, or to find fault with a hasty expression escaping from those who write for the sake of attracting public opinion in their favour; but what had recently been read by the hon. and gallant Admiral seemed to call for particular notice. He would take the liberty of reading it again, that the House might be more fully aware of its import:—"We assert, in reply to this, and shall abundantly prove, that our report of Sir Edward Codrington's speech is substantially correct, and that this gentleman, in impeaching its correctness, has had recourse to direct and wilful falsehood, or to an equivocation so mean, dirty, and pitiful, that in comparison with it, even direct and wilful falsehood becomes a respectable and manly vice." He had always thought it very unadviseable to proceed with questions of this sort when the passions might be in any degree excited in favour of the complaining Member, and against a party who did not belong to the House; but entertaining the opinion he did of the paragraph, he should think it
 170
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  then proceeded to state that he was about to call the attention of the Committee to a matter of not mere party consideration, but involving considerations of much general importance, attended by great complexity of details, and affecting to a considerable extent the interests of the community at large. He was about to submit to the consideration of the Committee, a measure for facilitating the settlement of the Tithe Question in this part of his Majesty's dominions, an object, the attainment of which was equally desired by both sides of the House. If he were not to approach this question with great diffidence as to the merits of the plan which he had to propose, and great anxiety as to its results, it would argue the greatest indifference on his part to the opinion of the House and the public, or the greatest confidence in his own powers—a confidence quite unwarranted—when the magnitude, the delicacy, and the complication of the subject were considered. It had been felt, for years, that the settlement of this question was a subject of the highest importance to the country. He was not, however, going to enter into a long detail of the history of this question, or to weary the House by a pedantic display of learning; for, looking at the litigation caused by tithes—looking at the variety of interests the subject embraced—considering the effect the levying of tithe had on cultivation, and the manner in which it operated to the discouragement of agriculture—he should take it for granted that there was nearly an unanimous feeling in the House, that a change should be made in the mode of levying tithe. At different periods, there had been different plans proposed for the accomplishment of this object; and although it was not his intention to enter into any minute dissection of the various schemes which had been submitted to the House, still it was necessary that he should take a short review of some of the latter measures proposed for this purpose. If he found that the principle or provisions of any one of those measures were prefer-
 171 172 173 174 s. s. d. 175 176 l. l. l. l. l. 177 s. s. s. s. s. s. s. d. s. s. s. 178 179 l. 180 amicus enriœ, 181 182 183 184
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  stated, in reference to the constitution of the commission, that the Archbishop of Canterbury should have the appointment of one member, and the other two commissioners should be nominated by the Crown. It was not necessary that the members should be clergymen.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley,  while expressing his readiness to entertain any plan promising to effect a settlement of the Tithe Question, could not refrain from stating his apprehension that the plan proposed, proceeding as it did on the principle of voluntary commutation, would not be attended with those satisfactory consequences which appeared to be expected from it. He
 190
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the first question was, whether the occupiers of land, having only a temporary interest, could subject the land to a permanent charge. Now, his proposition was, that the consent of two-thirds in value of the landowners should be obtained; and in the case of the occupier of land, he was bound to give notice to the landowner before the agreement of two-thirds could be ratified. The second objection originated in the possibility of land varying in value, but that would apply to all leases and corn-rents. The security against injustice in this case was that it was a voluntary commutation. The duty of the parties themselves would be to consider all those matters which referred to the possible change in the value of land, &c.; and act accordingly. But the experience of five years,
 186
 Colonel Wood  said, that the objection of the hon. Member for Maldon did not apply with any force to the plan of his right hon. Friend. He seemed to think, that lands which fell off in value would remain subject to a higher charge, but it should be recollected that the plan would protect land in an improved condition by the application of capital. The great argument against tithes at present was, that they formed an impediment to all improved cultivation; because, whenever capital was applied, the tithe-owner came in and took advantage of its application. The plan of the right hon. Baronet completely protected the landowner against that great inconvenience, because, the tithe being now fixed, any improved value given to land in consequence of the application of capital did not increase its amount. Setting this advantage, therefore, against the objection of the hon. Member for Maldon, the balance certainly would very much preponderate in favour of the improvement of land instead of its prospective deterioration. The measure was likely to give very great relief to the agriculturists, and the voluntary principle on which it proceeded would not only give great facilities to the commutation of tithes, but be greatly satisfactory to all parties.
 Lord John Russell  did not by any means undervalue the difficulties which of necessity must attend the preparation of such a measure, and though he doubted the probability of its proving effectual, he hoped, it would, not be supposed that he rated too low the character of that task which the right hon. Baronet had undertaken. He admitted the proposed Bill, so far as it had been laid before the House, did appear to avoid some of the objections which, fairly enough, perhaps, had been urged against other propositions for the settlement of the question of tithes; nevertheless, he did apprehend, that any proposition for a merely voluntary contribution, afforded but little prospect of success. In his judgment nothing short of a compulsory enactment could prove effectual. Let the House only consider for a moment the circumstances under which compositions were made, and the difficulties which stood in the way of making them. The fact was, and it could not be a matter of surprise that it should be so, that the farmers and tithe-payers generally in almost every parish considered the amount of
 191
 Mr. Baring  said, that there had, he need scarcely observe, prevailed, both in and out of doors, a great anxiety to obtain a settlement of the Tithe Question, and the Tithe Bills of last year received the greatest possible attention; but not one of the different schemes removed the invincible difficulty attendant, as he conceived, upon a compulsory arrangement. The measure now proposed by his right hon. Friend gave full promise of working well; it might be tried to a considerable extent, and after some experience, so to be derived, of the practical effect of its provisions, they might then with safety extend its operation further, with every hope of eventual success. One recommendation of the proposed measure would be, that it could give dissatisfaction to nobody, for none could come within the scope of its operation otherwise than by their own voluntary act. This, he thought, was a consideration which ought to have no small weight with the House. It was, of course, full in the recollection of hon. Members, that the last attempt at bringing forward a Tithe Bill had proved completely unsatisfactory, and the measure now proposed was so opposite to that, he hoped the House would agree with him that it ought to have a fair trial. He by no means con-
 192
 Mr. Pryme  said, that the right hon. Baronet seemed to found his expectation of the efficacy of the proposed measure on the number of commutations which had hitherto taken place. He should remember, however, that these commutations had generally arisen from Inclosure Bills, under peculiar circumstances. If, as was generally supposed, an inclosure rendered the land one-third more valuable to the clergyman than it previously had been, he had obviously an interest to that extent in seeing it take place. In the general course of negociation which accompanied such matters, he was asked by the landowners to consent to the inclosure and to a commutation of the tithe at a corn-rent; if he were unwilling, they would say that they refused to consent to the inclosure on any other terms; and then, rather than not have the inclosure, he would accept those which they offered. In this manner, numbers of the commutations which existed had been brought about. The right hon. Baronet had mentioned the large saving of expense which would attend commutation under his Bill, as an additional incentive to effecting it. That incentive would only operate upon the landowner, for the tithe-owner was at present not liable to any share of it; that is to say, the inducement to commute, arising from that cause, would influence only the parties who now felt most strongly the necessity of a commutation, and would not at all affect those whose consent was most essential and most difficult to obtain—the tithe-owners. He could not but think that the proposed measure would be unsatisfactory to the country. In the agricultural
 195
 Mr. E. John Stanley  said, the same obstacles which had hitherto stood in the way of a commutation would still exist under the proposed Bill; and he trusted that the right hon. Baronet would hold out some hope of a compulsory commutation at another period. So far as the present measure went, he thought it a very good one, inasmuch as it removed the inconvenience and expense attendant upon the local acts which were now necessary for a voluntary commutation.
 Mr. Hodges  expressed it as his opinion, that the measure would not be likely to be attended with success in some parts of the country, however readily many parishes might he prepared to enter into the arrangement proposed under it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought that he should best consult the convenience of the House if, before any further questions were put, he proceeded to answer those which had been already addressed to him. As the present was only the first stage of the Bill, every body would see that there were strong reasons why he should not pledge himself to the answers he might give upon the different points which had been
 197 198 199
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the tithe was to be levied on the occupying tenant, who would have the right to deduct the amount of it from the rent which he owed to his landlord. With respect to abatement, there was a power given by Lord Althorp's Bill to make an abatement 5 but if parties made a voluntary arrangement among themselves, his Bill would give no power to the Commissioners to make any abatement from it. One word with respect to compulsory arrangement. If he had prepared a Bill to make a compulsory adjustment of tithe, he should not have hesitated to give the Commissioners power to make an abatement. But he had not prepared any such Bill, as he had seen various attempts made to attain that object, and all of them ineffectual. He did not believe that any one general plan for a compulsory arrangement could be adapted to districts differing so much in local circumstances as the county of Cumberland and the county of Kent. Indeed, he did not think that any general plan of that kind could be devised which would give satisfaction to the tithe-payers throughout the kingdom. The best mode, as it appeared to him, of getting ultimately at a compulsory arrangement, was to try first the voluntary plan, to see where it succeeded, and to note where it failed. Then, when additional information was gained from various quarters, the House might steer its course through all the difficulties attending the compulsory plan. What he principally deprecated was, the making a compulsory arrangement as an
 200 l. l. l. l. l. l. 201
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the expenses of the commissioners and other officers would be paid out of a public fund, but that the expenses of the surveyors, valuers, and witnesses must be paid by the landowners interested in the commutation, except in certain eases, which he would specify hereafter.
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn  said, that he would not oppose the Motion for the introduction of the Bill, as the hon. Member said, he would not press the second reading of it until the evidence of the Irish Poor
 204
 Mr. Hodges  rose, pursuant to his notice, to move that the Petition of certain electors and others of the borough of Chatham, presented on the 19th instant, be referred to a select Committee. The hon. Member said that, as the subject had been discussed already and as he understood that the right hon. Baronet (Sir E. Knatchbull) had to present a counter-petition on the same subject, he thought he should best consult the convenience of the House by not doing more now than moving for the appointment of the Committee, reserving to himself the opportunity of malting any remarks in reply to what might be said on the other side.
 Mr. Hodges  contended that the present was a case which called loudly for inquiry. As to the exception to the order for excluding the slopsellers, it could be shown that those who were so excepted, though they were not voters (at least two of them were not), they had declared that if they had had votes they would have given them in favour of Admiral Beresford. There was, he conceived, sufficient evidence to prove the interference of the military authorities on one side. It could be proved that the regimental colours were taken from the flag-staff, and put on other staff's, and borne in the procession of Admiral Beresford. He did not think that the statement of the right hon. Baronet had at all met the allegations of the Petition, and he should, therefore, persevere in his motion.
 Sir George Clerk  contended, that the case of the petitioners was not made out. The charge against Colonel Tremenhere was, that he had issued a general order excluding slopsellers and pawnbrokers from the marine barracks, and excepting from that order only three persons who were described as voters for Admiral Beresford. Now, what were the real facts of the case? In January last, there were several ships paid off, and the marines belonging to them were taken into barracks. They had all money coming to them, and knowing the practices of the slopsellers in dealing with the men, and the manner in which the men were plundered, an order was issued to prevent the slopsellers and pawnbrokers from going into the barrack-yard as usual, and on inquiry into the characters of those who were in the habit of visiting the barrack-yard, three only were allowed to be exceptions to the rule, but of these three two were not voters, and one of these two had acted as an agent for Captain Byng. But as a proof that the order was intended to apply only to the particular circumstances of the paying-off of the ships, he need only mention that the order was rescinded on the 14th of February. On these grounds he roust say, that the gravemen of the charge
 207
 Mr. William Ord  said that, if Colonel Tremenhere had exercised his military powers for military purposes, he would of course come out of the proposed inquiry without a stain upon his character, and if it should turn out that he had abused the powers with which he was invested, for the purpose of carrying into effect a system of intimidation he would suffer, the inquiry would be fully justified in either case. He (Mr. Ord) had been informed that such orders where wholly unprecedented in the barracks at Chatham, and that no such in, terference had ever before been known. He had also understood that the individual Lucas, who had been described as a draper, was a slopseller, and did actually vote for Admiral Sir John Beresford, and that such would, on inquiry, be proved to be the fact. The orders were not cancelled until it was
 209
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he should consent to the appointment of such a Committee as that proposed with very great reluctance. He could well understand, that, under such a charge, the personal wishes of the gallant individual would be, that his conduct should (if the explanations of his friends proved insufficient to satisfy the House) be submitted to any examination that the House might require, but he could not think that the personal wishes of any gallant officer ought to be conclusive upon the point. He was not present when the subject was before discussed, and he had not heard of the case until to-night, nor did he know the charges before. He understood that some reference was made in the petition to certain expressions alleged to have been made by the gallant officer to another individual on the subject of the election, and that also there was a charge that he had perverted the authority with which he was invested for the purpose of influencing the election; Now the latter charge, he thought, stood on very different grounds to the former. A charge against an individual of abusing authority with which he was clothed was one upon which the House of Commons might properly proceed, but to the appointment of a committee to inquire into lan-
 211
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  suggested, that all objects ought to be answered by the granting of a motion of inquiry into the circumstances under which an order had been issued at the termination of the last election for that borough, by which it was ordered, that pawnbrokers and slop-sellers should be prohibited from entering the barracks without a special order from the commandant.
 Mr. Baring  rose pursuant to notice, to move that the House do go into a Committee of the whole House on the Timber Duties.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, he wished to know what course the right hon. Gentleman meant to pursue upon this important question? If he was correctly informed, it was the intention now to go into a Committee of the whole House for the purpose of moving a Resolution, on which ft Bill would be founded, and that Bill
 214
 Mr. Baring  said, the question to which he was about calling the attention of the Committee, was one of great importance, and involved so many points worthy of consideration, that he should not have brought it forward at so late an hour, if he apprehended that there would be occasion to address the Committee at any length. The timber duties as they now existed, grew out of a Committee of Inquiry, which satin 1821 or 1822, so that they had been thirteen years in operation. He would not now inquire how far these duties were at first proper or expedient. However, that might be, they had given rise to so much conflicting interest, that it became absolutely necessary to come to Parliament upon the question. There were two notices upon the paper relative to this subject—one to equalise the duties, and the other for the appointment of a Committee. The present duty was, on Baltic timber 55 s., s. s. s. 215
 Mr. Warburton  would make no opposition to the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman, but he should have been better pleased if he had simply endeavoured to correct the anomalous operation of the present law by which timber was conveyed from the ports of Europe to the North American colonies, and then brought to England at a duty lower than that on timber freighted to England direct from the Baltic. This anomaly was, however, attended by an advantage; it pointed out in the most glaring manner the absurdity of the duties imposed under the timber system. As the question was to be referred to a Committee he would not enter into the subject, but he could not refrain from expressing his opinion, that the information afforded to the Committee of Trade, which sat in 1821, was amply sufficient to enable them to legislate at once upon the matter. That Committee, it was stated by the right hon. Gentleman, approved of the duties according to their present scale. The fact, however, was, they merely recommended that the duties as they now existed, should be imposed in the first instance, and that
 216 s. s., s. s., s. s. s.
 Mr. Robinson  would refrain from discussing so large a question as the timber duties. The object of the Board of Trade was to correct an obvious anomaly in the existing law, by which timber freighted from Europe to the North American colonies, and then imported into England, paid only the same duty as that levied on colonial timber. It was clear, that when the discriminating duties were established there was no intention to sanction such a proceeding. When the time for discussing the general question arrived, he should be prepared to consider it, not as affecting the colonies alone, but all the other great commercial interests of the country. If it could then be proved to him, that the protecting duty in favour of the colonies was greater than, under all the circumstances, they were entitled, he would willingly give his vote for putting the duties on a proper footing.
 Mr. Carruthers  would not allow the statement which had been made by the hon. Member for Bridport to go unanswered. The difference between the duties—one being 10 s. s. s.,
 Mr. Hutt  recommended, in order to correct this great anomaly in the long chapter of anomalies in the timber duties, that the colonies should be placed in respect to the duties on an equal footing with European
 217
 Mr. George F. Young  regretted, that some other means had not been proposed to alter this anomalous scale of duties. As to the allusion made to the former arrangement of duties, and the present price of Baltic timber, it only went to prove the dreadfully distressed condition of British shipping. It was at the most ruinous freight, that they were obliged to take such voyages.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  said, that in some of the Charter-Parties of ships which had been hired to take timber from the Baltic to Canada, a provision had been inserted, to enable the charterers to consent to the conveyance of the cargoes to England. In many charters he had reason to know that such a provision had not been inserted, and he wished to know, whether compensation would be allowed to parties who might suffer from not having provided against an alteration of the law. There was no question which ought to excite greater alarm among the shipping interest than the present, and he greatly regretted, that, it was intended to accede to the Motion of the hon. Member for Manchester.
 Mr. Baring  had to state, in answer to the hon. Member's question, that notice was given to those connected with the trade, of the intentions of Government in the middle of February, early enough for every possible purpose, and before any arrangements were far advanced. He therefore did not expect that any claim of compensation would arise. It was necessary for the Government to take some step in reference to this question, and they thought it was the most adviseable course to submit it once more to the consideration of a Special Committee. It was intended to throw the question completely open to the full and fair consideration of that Committee.
 Dr. Bowring  was gratified at hearing the mention of "consumer" in the course of the discussion. He hoped the day would arrive when his interests would receive more consideration. A distinction had been drawn between the colonies and foreign countries. There ought to be no distinction. If the foreigner came forward with a cheaper article than the colonies it was to our interest to purchase from him, and we might rest assured, that he in return would take our commodities.
 Mr. Carruthers  considered the colonies
 218
 Mr. Maclean  said, he perfectly well remembered the words used by the hon. Member for Penryn, and he had certainly not understood him to say any thing to the effect that it was the duty of military and naval men to hold opinions with the Government, whatever that Government might be. When last this subject was before the House, the hon. Baronet, the Member for Devonport (Sir G, Grey) had
 210
 Mr. Cayley  wished to know from the right hon. Baronet, whether it was his intention to propose that the two-thirds of the tithe-payers should be computed according to numbers or to value, who were to determine whether or not there should be a commutation in any given parish? [The  Chancellor of the Exchequer: "According to value.
 Mr. Grote  asked whether the expense of adjusting the tithe in any parish was to be paid by the parish, or out of any public fund?
 Mr. Grote  was very unwilling to add to the number of questions which had already been put to the right hon. Baronet, but there was one which he (Mr. Grote) was very anxious to have answered. He wished to know whether the right hon. Baronet proposed to deal with the tithes in cities and towns in the same manner as with those of the agricultural districts? He knew that, in the city of London, tithes, in various parishes, were most unequal and oppressive. And he was desirous of knowing whether the right hon. Baronet meant to devise any means for removing or alleviating the burdens which pressed upon the inhabitants of cities and towns with regard to tithes.
 Mr. Warburton  thought that the House ought to consider both the Petition presented by the hon. Member for Kent and the statement made by the hon. Baronet opposite as  ex parte, Knatchbull: ex parte,
 Mr. Freshfield  said, that, as a personal friend of the gallant Officer whose conduct was the subject of the present Question, he felt himself bound to bear his testimony to the high personal character and honour of that gallant individual. He was satisfied that there was not the slightest foundation for the imputation that the orders in question were made in reference at all to the election, but on the contrary, were issued on a special occasion, to which the right hon. Baronet had alluded, and having answered the purpose for which they had specially been issued, they were abrogated on the 14th of February; but such was the condition of the barracks, consequent upon the indiscriminate admission of the traders, that the field officer had been obliged to interfere. This manifested their necessity. With respect to the conversation attributed to Colonel Tremenhere, it was a mere passing comment in the street, and could not avail against him, inasmuch as he had no control over the electors, being there merely in his military capacity. He had yet to learn that because a man filled the station either of a naval or military officer he had no right to entertain political opinions, or that he might not say that he should feel himself ungrateful to the Government if he did not make some return for some of the favours received from it. He strongly objected to the proposed Committee of inquiry, not because he entertained any other conviction than that the character of the individual would come out of it with honour and credit, but because he thought such an inquiry was unworthy of the House, and was not justified by the facts.
 Mr. Freshfield,  in explanation, said, the hon. and gallant Member had totally misunderstood his observations; so far from having said any thing like that attributed to him by the hon. and gallant Member, his argument was, that naval and military men were still citizens, and as such had the right to the free exercise of their particular political principles.
 Mr. Parrott  wished to know whether the burthen was to remain on the owner or the occupier of the land? Was any abatement to be made where the land was highly cultivated?
 Mr. Parrott  observed, that the working of the Bill must mainly depend on the commissioners and he trusted, therefore, that much care would be exercised in their appointment. On one point he wished for some explanation. After the commutation had been made, was the burden to remain fixed on the owner or the occupier? If it remained on the owner, and if, by some means, it should happen that the land on account of which it was charged, were to be thrown out of cultivation, still he would be liable for the permanent impost. On the other hand, if it were to rest on the occupier, the burden would not exist in the case which he had supposed. He would point out, that although the resolution was professedly for a voluntary commutation, yet the commutation would be compulsory on the one-third of the landowners who did not agree.
 Mr. Pease  stated that, in the county of Durham, the landlords and tenants were at this moment paying tithe out of their capital. The consequence was, that land there was daily going out of cultivation. Under such circumstances it could hardly be expected that there would be any voluntary commutation of tithe on the principle of this bill. Every one would rejoice to see the heart-burning occasioned by the collection of tithe removed by some well-arranged plan of commutation; but if the principle of this bill were insisted on, there would be a degree of distress in the north of England which language could not describe. He knew many estates in which this plan would give the clergyman his tithe, but would not leave the landlord a farthing for rent, nor the tenant a farthing for profit. The House must not wait for five years to see what effects this plan would produce, but must go forward boldly and meet the evil at once. He did not conceive that this plan would be of any value to the tillage land in his county, whatever it might be to the grazing land. It would greatly disappoint the farmers of Durham. Where the clergyman was of an easy disposition, and understood aright the position in which he was placed, there would be no difficulty in effecting a commutation; but wherever the clergyman
 202
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  was much afraid that any plan other than one of a partly compulsory and partly voluntary nature would not secure the object the right hon. Gentleman had in view. In his opinion, the history of Scotland about two hundred years ago, supplied a model for a plan of tithe settlement as little liable to objection as any that could possibly be devised; and he regretted the right hon. Baronet had not had his attention directed to it before he came down with his present proposition. The plan to which he alluded he would briefly state to the House. The difficulty of ascertaining the value of tithes in Scotland having occasioned great dread of perplexity and confusion it was agreed by all the great landholders, by the taxmen or leaseholders, and by the clergy, that the matter should be referred to their Sovereign, accompanied with a request that he should
 187
 Sir Ronald Fergusson  would not have risen but in consequence of what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Penryn (Mr. Freshfield). He thanked the hon. Member for his concession, that officers in the army and navy had an undoubted right to express their political sentiments, but he must, at the same time, protest against the principle laid down that they were bound to vote with the Government from whom they had received their honours. Naval and military men had as good a right to vote according to their own particular principles as any other class. The present Government had been in power too short a time to do any good for Colonel Tremenhere, and he hoped their career would be too short to enable them to benefit him.
 Mr. Lennard  was anxious to put two questions to the right hon. Baronet. The agreement, it was proposed, should be signed by two-thirds of the parishioners; but the payment agreed to was to be fixed in the parish for ever. Now, those two-thirds might consist of persons who were tenants with but a temporary interest in the land, and only holding leases for short periods; was it not too much, then, to give them a power of imposing on that land a sum of permanent and lasting amount? There was another point which always struck him as of considerable importance in relation to the Tithe Question. The right hon. Gentleman stated, that the fixed payment on the land should afterwards vary every seven years according to the value of corn; now, at first sight that seemed a very fair, equitable, and unobjectionable mode of proceeding; but there was an objection to it which had been urged several times last year, especially by the right hon. Member (Mr. Baring) for the county of Essex, and which he hoped the right hon. Baronet would have the kindness duly to consider. The objection was this: supposing the rate of tithe placed on land with reference to its productiveness, and fixed for ever by a corn rent, if the land in all time to come
 185
 Mr. Estcourt  said, it was impossible not
 194
 Mr. Gisborne  wished to know whether the decision of the commissioners as to moduses should in all cases be conclusive, or whether, when parties wished, there might not be an appeal to another court?
 Mr. Greene,  contended, that it would be difficult to frame a compulsory measure which should be fairly applicable to all the different parishes in the country. It had been said, that existing commutations were few; that arose from their temporary nature. When they came to be rendered permanent, the case would be very different. A strong reason for the small number was to be found in the enormous expense which was attendant upon the present plan of effecting them; he knew one case in which the cost had amounted to 3,000 l.
 Mr. Blamire  had heard the development of the proposed measure with great satis-
 193
 Mr. William Smith O'Brien,  in seconding the Motion, expressed a hope that, before long, the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Goulburn) would be able to lay the Report of the Irish Poor-Law Commissioners before the House.
 Sir Edward Codrington  rose to complain of a breach of privilege. In a discussion on the Chatham petition, on Friday last, he had felt called upon to take part, and the observation he had made was, that great intimidation had also taken place at Devonport, which he considered was very much to be attributed to Mr. Dawson, the Secretary to the Admiralty, having hoisted the Admiralty flag, while the General commanding the Marine force had also taken a principal part in the election. He had distinctly stated that Mr. Dawson hoisted the Admiralty flag, but he did not state that he had canvassed under the Admiralty flag. It had been attributed to him in  The Morning Post The Times. The Morning Post, 169
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  would beg leave to state to the House what the hon. Member had not done upon the case on which he had moved the House. When the hon. Member had introduced the Petition to the notice of the House upon a former occasion he had stated that the petition contained allegations upon the character of a gallant officer which required an investigation, and which was entitled therefore in every respect to the serious consideration of Parliament. He trusted that he (Sir E. Knatchbull) was the last man capable of a wish to suppress any charges brought forward in that House, or to avoid an investigation of that which deserved to be inquired into. He would, however, beg leave to state to the House what were the charges which existed in the present case, and he doubted not that he should be able to convince the House that there existed no necessity for the appointment of a Committee. No public or private good whatever could arise from the proposed inquiry; but he would rest his objection on a distinct denial of the total charge brought forward against the individuals in question, and he would then leave it to the hon. Gentleman himself to say, whether he would wish to appoint a Committee to investigate the case, or otherwise he would appeal to the House, whether it could agree to the hon. Gentleman's Motion? In reference to the petition which the Hon. Member had presented on a former occasion he had stated that certain
 205 206
 Sir E. Knatchbull  said, that he thought he could put an end to the present debate. The House would remember, that in the course of his former observations he had intimated, that if he should not succeed in satisfying the House with the explanations he was about to give, it was not his intention to object to the Motion for the appointment of a Committee. Upon his explanation he regretted to find so great a difference of opinion prevailed, but since the debate had proceeded, he had communicated with Colonel Tremenhere, and that gallant officer confirmed what he had before stated. The anxious desire of Colonel Tremenhere was, that his conduct should undergo every investigation. Therefore he had no objection to the appointment of a Committee of Inquiry.
 Sir George Grey  agreed with the right hon. Baronet in thinking, that there was a distinction to be drawn between the two charges, but he thought the right hon. Baronet could not have read the petition, or he would not have moved the amendment just proposed, an amendment which would in effect make the inquiry perfectly nugatory. The petition expressed a confidence that the House would not permit persons holding official situations or military commands to interfere unduly or vexatiously with the right of election. This expression was made after a statement of facts, some of which were denied, and which he hoped the gallant individual might be able to prove to be untrue. The conduct imputed to Colonel Tremenhere was, that in his military capacity he had promulgated, a few days after the election, a vexatious order, of which the petitioners would not have complained, if it had been acted upon with fairness and impartiality, but that inasmuch as two or three slopsellers who supported one interest were admitted into the barracks, whilst others who had supported the adverse candidate were excluded, they regarded the order as intended to interfere with the free exercise of the elective franchise. In this opinion the petitioners felt themselves fortified in consequence of a conversation having occurred previous to the election, in which Colonel Tremenhere was alleged to have said, that "if Chatham did not return Admiral Beresford, he hoped the Government would take such measures as might have the effect of shutting up half the shops in the town." It was impossible, therefore, to shut out from the inquiry this evidence of the  animus 212 animus
 Sir John Hanmer  contended that the appointment of a Committee of inquiry upon such a trivial matter was beneath the credit, honour, and dignity of the House. The charge with respect to the slopsellers, had in his judgment been fully disproved, and surely the House would not attend to the suggestion as to an expression of a few hasty words spoken in the streets during the excitement of a contested election, and deal with such expressions as if deliberately made. He protested against such a course, not because he felt any personal interest in the matter, but because he conceived it beneath the dignity of the House.
 Sir Richard Musgrave,  pursuant to his notice, rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the relief of the poor in Ireland in certain cases. It was not his intention to press the second reading of this Bill, supposing he got leave to bring it in, until after the evidence collected by the Irish Poor-Law Commissioners was laid upon the table; and even then, if Government would introduce a measure of its own, and would take into its consideration the state of the poor in Ireland, he would yield up his plan and give his assent to its measure. His object was to obtain relief for the poor of Ireland, and he cared not by what party it was afforded, so long as it was afforded. Nothing would have induced him to take up this subject but his strong conviction of the necessity of affording them some mode of relief. It was stated in the evidence of the first medical authorities in
 203
 Sir Robert Inglis  approved of the plan which his right hon. Friend had submitted to the Committee on two grounds. First, on the ground that the working of the Bill was to be voluntary; and, secondly, that it was to be but a temporary measure. It was a great experiment at best, and he was free to confess that his right hon. Friend, in suggesting a plan which could only be tried with the consent of all the parties interested, had taken the course which appeared to him most likely to lead to a satisfactory result. He did not deny, that the question of tithes had created a great deal of attention out of doors; but, with all due deference to the opinion of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had spoken last, he would contend, that the parties who received, and the parties who paid tithes, were the only persons whose interests the House had to consider when deliberating upon the question of commutation. If he differed from any part of the right hon. Baronet's speech it was that in which he expressed an opinion that concession ought to he made to those who were willing to take tithes at less than the actual value. He had always looked upon tithes as property, and considered that they should be dealt with exactly like land, If any Gentleman should tell him that in purchasing an estate, he would proceed to its valuation not on a survey, but on the statement of rent received, he would not be surprised at his valuing tithes by a similar test. But he could not conceive on what principle a Gentleman, who, in purchasing an estate would not be content with a tenant's statement, but would insist upon a survey, should require the Church to surrender its property for less than the amount at which it was valued. He sincerely rejoiced at the prospect of settlement which the measure held out, and he was glad to perceive by the tone of the House that, as far at least as its principle was concerned, it was not likely to meet with opposition.
 Sir Robert Price  suggested the propriety of introducing some declaratory enactment for the settlement of many controverted rights which now existed, and upon the subject of which the decisions of the different judges had been quite opposite. He
 196
 Mr. Rolfe  did not intend, to offer the slightest opposition to the plan for the settlement of a question, considered on all hands difficult, on which the right hon. Baronet, (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had made an able and useful statement to the House. Though it might be better to reserve his observations for a future stage of the measure, he would make one or two remarks which occurred to him. He ob-
 188 Hear! from the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Chancellor of the Exchequer: 189
 Mr. Rolfe  wished to know whether the attention of the right hon. Baronet had been called to the tithe on fish? In the extreme west of England this was a matter of some importance. The tithe on fish was in its nature double. There was first the tithe on fish; and next the tithe on fishing. As to the first, there would be no difficulty as to the principle of commutation; but with regard to the second, as it depended on the profits of those who caught the fish, how was it to be commuted? On whom was the assessment to be laid, the individuals who caught the fish being unknown? He believed that there would be some difficulty felt on this subject on the north east coast of Yorkshire, about Whitby.
 Lord John Russell  was convinced that the character of the gallant Admiral was above suspicion, and when he gave notice of bringing forward the question, he did so on public grounds. So far as the gallant Admiral was concerned, and on account of the gallant Admiral's request, he was not disposed to press his motion; but, having taken up the question on public grounds mainly, he was in the hands of the House, whether he should go on with it or not. The character of the gallant Admiral had been fully cleared; but it was for the House to say whether, in vindication of its own dignity, an anonymous libel of that kind was to be overlooked?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  hoped the noble Lord would not bring forward
 225
 Mr. Wynn , with all possible deference to the opinion of the right hon. Baronet, who had had so much experience in the department to which these votes related, would contend, that by yielding to the argument, which the right hon. Baronet had employed, the House of Commons would surrender their most powerful means of control over the Executive. If money voted for one purpose might at the pleasure of the Government be applied to another, there was no saying where such a principle might lead to. There had been a declaration made by the House of Commons, that if money which had been voted for one service should be applied to another, the party making or authorizing that application should be guilty of a misdemeanour. If it was allowable to apply a sum voted for wages and victualling to defray the demands made for half-pay, on the same grounds it might be applied to the use of the army, the Colonial Department, or any other purpose. He did not believe that there would be the slightest opposition to voting the half-pay and the money to be paid to pensioners. There was no objection which could be raised against the House going into Committee, particularly as the necessity for it had arisen from circumstances over which the Government had no control, and it was the safest and best course which could be pursued.
 Mr.Pryme  would ask whether this embarrassment did not arise from the late dissolution of Parliament, which had driven off the assembling of the Parliament till the latter end of February, instead of admitting of their coming together in the beginning of that month, or the end of January? He would not throw any obstruction in the way of the House going into Committee, but he would remind the House, that this was one of the many evils occasioned by the dissolution of the late Parliament.
 Mr. Warburton  could not see the necessity of this Bill. Looking at the habits of the people at present, and comparing them with the past, he did not perceive that they were becoming more and more irreligious, or at all the less observant of the Sabbath-day. In reviewing the acts of the Legislature of the country for the last two hundred years, he incidentally discovered that the people were less religiously disposed formerly than they were at present. By an Act of James 1st, he found that markets and fairs were prohibited from being held on the Sunday, except markets for victuals. By another act, he was not sure, but he believed of Charles 1st, he found that fairs were forbidden to be holden on a Suday, except in harvest time. Indications such as these, with various others that might be mentioned, incidentally, established the fact, that the Sabbath at present was much more rigorously kept than formerly. And if hon. Gentlemen about him would tax their
 234 conversazione;
 Mr. Potter  understood it had been distinctly stated by the hon. Gentleman who introduced the Bill, that it was very different from the Bill of last year. With a slight exception he found it the same, and hoped that it would meet the fate of its predecessor. The Bill of last year underwent a great many Amendments, and this Bill could not pass without undergoing a great many more, and he submitted, that the time of the House should not be taken up by unnecessary discussions on Sabbath Bills. He wished the Gentlemen who were so anxious for legislating on the Sabbath would read a document published in the summer of last year, written by the liberal and enlightened Dr. Butler, of Shrewsbury, and delivered as a charge to the Archdeaconry of Derby. He would read an extract from that charge, in which he entirely concurred:—"One or two efforts have been made, evidently so uncongenial to the spirit of freedom and liberty which belongs to our constitution, so harsh in their restrictions, and so unequal in their operation on the different classes of society, that we ought, I think, most heartily to rejoice at their rejection. Furthermore, the severest prohibitions will not effect the truly religious observance of the Sabbath, by influencing the heart. Rather will they tend to bring odium, not only on such legislation, but on the sacred day itself; and by turning it into a day of ascetic gloom instead of religious cheerfulness, may conduce to harden men's hearts, but not to convert them. Acts of Parliament may perhaps be so framed as to provide for the decent external observance of this day; but what Act of Parliament can reach the heart? Could all men be compelled by Act of Parliament to attend divine worship on this day, how little would be done towards making them religious when their attendance was compulsory! It is the will that gives the life and meaning to the act; and this leads me to mention what I consider as far more likely to be efficacious in promoting the proper observance of the Sabbath than a whole statute-book of Parliamentary enactments—I mean, the gentle force of persuasion and example. I have watched, myself, and I have consulted others who have made the same observation, and who concur with me in thinking, that since so general an expression of public opinion has been elicited respecting the desecration of the Sabbath, the good feeling of
 236
 Sir Samuel Whalley  said, that if he considered the measure to be at all like the Bill which was introduced last Session, he should vote for the Amendment. But he thought a single sentence would induce hon. Members to accede to the second reading of the Bill. It was merely to make more effectual a law passed in the reign of Charles 1st.; to close such shops as might not be necessary to the comfort and convenience of the people. The hon. Member says, in answer to the petition on behalf of the market gardeners, that he did not intend to prevent the sale of fruits on the Lord's day. He was sure that the hon. Member, knowing that for six days the labouring classes were pent up in close shops or manufactories, would not attempt for a moment to withdraw them from the pure air of heaven and all innocent amusements which were compatible with the observance of the Lord's day. But it was fit for the Legislature to give every opportunity to the maintenance of a religious observance of the Sabbath among the people, so far as they could without interfering with that innocent recreation and comfort which the people were so justly entitled to; without endeavouring to attain that impracticable object, making the working people religious by Act of Parliament
 237
 Mr. Poulter  only desired a just and reasonable concurrence between the law of the land and the manners of the people. He was aware that religious people always could obtain the exercise of their religion, but it was the object of his Bill to obtain a decent observance of religion at all places. On the second reading of the Bill of last Session he had received a letter from the worthy Archdeacon D'Oyley, of Lambeth, stating that there was more trade carried on in that parish on a Sunday than on any other day, and he trusted that the House would not assist in maintaining such a state of things. With regard to the argument used, as to what was open shop, he presumed that it would be interpreted by the law according to the  quo animo. 238
 Mr. Hawes  objected to the Bill going into Committee, for the Act of Charles 2nd it proposed to enforce was practically obsolete.
 Sir Robert Bateson  had for the last two months come down, day after day, with the view of presenting several petitions, praying for the better enforcement of the observance of the Sabbath. He felt it a duty to a large constituency, who were anxious for the passing some law on the subject, to give his support to this measure. He was not to be daunted by the sneers or taunts of those who advocated the necessity of free trade. The well-wishers of free trade attacked the subject covertly; they were afraid to come forward openly, for they would have their arguments refuted. He trusted that the hon. Member for Shaftesbury (Mr. Poulter) would not be intimidated, but persevere in his intentions.
 Mr. Lennard  said the Bill expressly revived the statute of Charles 2nd. And the statute of George 2nd, which excepted the healthy amusement of boating from its other interdictions, would also be repealed by it, and thus that delightful recreation would be forbidden. If this Bill were to be passed into a law it must be very much altered. In its present state he could not support it.
 Mr. William Ord  had an objection on principle to the Bill before the House. It was founded on exceptions. No Bill should proceed upon such a principle.—Properly speaking, the exceptions destroyed the principle, and, therefore, the measure had no principle at all. It would, he was satisfied, be found to be a mere in-
 239
 Mr. George F. Young  said, the opposition to the Bill was of the most pernicious character. He could scarcely refrain from perceiving that those who opposed it seemed determined to break down all distinction between the Sabbath and the week day. He trusted that the House would never consent to such an encroachment, for if they did the poor man alone would be injured by it. At present the labourer worked six days in the week, and rested on the seventh. The object of the Bill of the hon. Member for Shaftesbury went to affirm that regulation and enforce it. If the principle which the opposers of the measure advocated, the entire freedom of Sunday trading, were once admitted by the Legislature, the poor man would be compelled to work the remaining day, the Sabbath, and he would get no additional wages. That something was necessary to be done for the suppression of the evil of extravagant Sunday trading the number of petitions which had been presented to the House sufficiently proved. He was, he confessed, much astonished to see hon. Members, in opposition to the measure, who, on all occasions took so much credit to themselves for liberality of sentiment and respect for the petitions of the people attend so little lo either in respect to the Bill before the House. Believing the Bill before the House to be one calculated to effect the object in view, he should give it his support.
 Mr. Ervart  was convinced, that the Bill would have no effect whatever in promoting the better observance of the Sabbath. As far as he could judge of the temper of the House, and the inclination of the country, he never knew an opposition to any measure to be so extended, so uniform, so temperate, and at the same time so determined. The measure was radically de-
 240
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn  had, on more than one occasion, given his support to measures which had for their object the preservation of the sanctity of the Sabbath, so that he thought he needed do no more than repeat his conviction, that some additional means of effecting that desirable object to those already in existence were required. He had not, however, supported some Bills which purported to have the same general object in view as the present measure, because he believed they went beyond those limits where legislative interference should stop short. The Bill of the hon. Member for Shaftesbury was not open to this objection; it went to the exact limits which it ought to stop at, and went no further. It prevented only the obvious and publicly offensive desecrations of the Sabbath, and did not interfere with those harmless enjoyments of the poorer classes which were embraced by the other measures to which he had alluded. He (Mr. Goulburn) therefore thought the hon. Member had acted a wise part in limiting its provisions to those bounds, and exempting it by that means from the just exception to former measures—measures, he would say, brought forward in the best spirit, but with an erroneous view of the subject on which they sought to interfere. The hon. Member for Liverpool had said, that the Bill took away the privilege of a certain class, and instanced servants in support of his argument that Sunday trading should not be interfered with. But the argument of the hon. Member, to be of avail, should be extended farther; and, if it were extended farther on the principle sought to be established, the theatres might be opened on the Sabbath. [Mr.  Ewart: 241
 Mr. Clay  said, that the opponents of the Bill took their stand on the fact, that Sunday trading was not so great in amount as to require legislation to prevent it. A great deal had been said about not offending the consciences of religious people. Other people had consciences as well as
 242 Drunken Barnaby's Journal: Veni Banbury. Oh! profanum! Ubi vidi Puritanum Felem facientem furem Quia Sabbatho stravit murem.
 Mr. Pringle  said, that the Bill was founded on the report of a Select Committee of the House, who had examined evidence, and taken every pains to procure information on the subject. If the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets had read the report and the evidence given before the Committee he could not have stated that Sunday trading was not too great. Any hon. Member, however, who wished to take the evidence of his own senses on the subject, needed only go through various parts of London on a Sunday morning, Tooley-street, Lambeth, and St. Giles's, and he would soon be convinced of the incorrectness of the hon. Gentleman's statement. It would, he was aware, be urged against the suppression of Sunday trading, that the artizan and labourer were
 243
 Colonel Evans  said, that the Bill if passed in the present shape would have the effect of reducing many thousands to a state of beggary. It would also trench very deeply upon a certain portion of the trading property of the metropolis. He much regretted the hon. Member for Shaftesbury did not see fit to take these things into his consideration previous to coming forward with any legislative interference on the subject of the Sabbath. As he wished all information possible on the nature of the Bill he desired to know of the hon. Member, whether it was contemplated by it to prevent the sale of fruit, vegetables, fish, and all other perishable commodities left over Saturday night on the Sunday?
 Sir A. Agnew  hoped that the hon. Member for Shaftesbury would not enter into any compromise or entertain any suggestion made by the enemies of Sabbath legislation. If he did, the effect would be an impairing of the utility of the Bill, perhaps its destruction. He (Sir A. Agnew) was happy to find a growing number of hon. Members in the House disposed to respect the petitions of the religious portion of the community, and interfere to prevent the desecration of the Lord's-day. The Bill should have his best support.
 Mr. Hume  was disposed to vote for the second reading of the Bill until he had heard the observations of the hon. Baronet addressed to the hon. Member for Shaftesbury. He was very unwilling to trust the measure in Committee to a man who could advise another not to listen to any reasonable suggestion. He wished to know of the hon. Member for Shaftesbury whether confectioners' shops, or those traders who travelled, from place to place in steam-
 244
 Mr. Poulter  replied that confectioners' shops fell under the equitable construction given to the Act of Charles 2nd by the Court of King's Bench; and the Bill had no reference whatever to what was done on board steam-boats.
 Mr. Warburton  deprecated the enormous expense attendant upon re-opening the registers before Committees, who, under that Bill, if it should pass into a law, would have the power of doing so. He should oppose that Clause of the Bill.
 Lord John Russell  would not press the Clause to which the hon. Member for Bridport objected, if the sense of the House were against him.
 Mr. H. Bulwer  thought there were some regulations in the present measure more unfair than in the former.
 Mr. Bernal  was decidedly opposed to the Clause for opening up the lists before a Committee, but he admitted that the present was not the proper time for going into a discussion on the subject.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  approved of the Bill, and thought it a great improvement. He was in favour, too, of the clause which was censured, as he thought that the House could never give up its right to revise the decisions of the registering barristers.
 Mr. W. Ord  had no objection to a reference to a Committee as a Court of Appeal against decisions by the revising barrister, but he had a strong objection to sending original cases for their judgment.
 Mr. Praed  could not understand why, because voters had been put to one expense in obtaining a decision on their claims, they should be exposed to have the expense doubled.
 Mr. Grote  said, that if he understood the object of creating revising barristers, it was to settle disputed votes cheaply and expeditiously on the spot; but the country would be deprived of that great benefit if a Committee of that House were allowed to have an original jurisdiction on the subject. This would have the effect of giving a certain victory to the rich at the expense of the poor.
 Mr. Goulburn  doubted whether, if an original jurisdiction were denied to the Committee, it would not greatly increase the expense to the voter; for if it were known that no votes were to be open to discussion but those which were questioned at the time of registration, the number of objections to votes would greatly accumulate.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the Committee would be the proper place to go into the details of the measure. He would add, that it could not have been intended by the Reform Bill, to deprive a Committee of that House of the power of questioning the validity of votes. He objected to sending the Bill to a Select Committee, the only effect of which would be to have their Report pulled to pieces when it was presented to the House. He would prefer sending the Bill in the usual way to a Committee of the whole House; but to give time to consider the subject, he would defer the Committee till after Easter.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said that the Question for the House to consider was, whether the more advisable course to pursue was to vote the money for the half-pay and the pensions together, or pass the one first, and leave the other to a future occasion. His noble Friend would leave this altogether to the discretion of the Committee. It was in conformity with all practice that on Friday next a notice should be inserted in the  Gazette
 Lord Stanley  had no wish to stand in the way of the right hon. Baronets arrangements with the House, but he could not help thinking that the right hon. Gentleman had a little misunderstood his right hon. Friend, near him (Sir
 232
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had stated that he should be unwilling to lay it down as a principle that no exigencies of the public service would justify such an arrangement as that proposed by the right hon. Baronet. The Question was one of the balance of inconvenience, and there could be no doubt that the danger to be apprehended from the precedent that would be thus established would be an inconvenience much greater than the course which he wished to pursue.
 Lord John Russell  did not take a very different view of the Question from that entertained by the right hon. Baronet, and he should consent to go into the Committee of Supply, with the understanding that no other vote should be brought forward than those which had been mentioned in the course of the discussion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  believed the question related to whether one of the eleven copies of works which were furnished by all publishers to certain libraries should be exchanged with France for a copy of the works of that country. The right of having one copy had been agreed to be purchased from the University of Aberdeen at a sum of 500 l. 233 l.
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn  denied, that there was a shadow of foundation for the charge of any peculation, or the appropriation of the light-houses' funds to favour persons professing certain political opinions. The right hon. Gentleman briefly adverted to the difficulties experienced by the Government in making the arrangements with the lessees of the light-houses; but he deferred entering more fully into the subject until the intended Bill should be introduced.
 Mr. Murray  approved of the proposed measure, and earnestly trusted to see the commerce of the country relieved by the Bill of the hon. Member for Middlesex, from many of its present incumbrances. He thought the labour and care of the hon. Member deserved the approbation of the House and the country.
 Mr. Fitzsimon  could not give a silent vote on a question of such interest to his constituents, in the county Dublin in particular, as well as to his country in general. He fully concurred in the well-merited eulogium passed by the hon. Member who had preceded him, on the vast labour and watchful care which his hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex, bestowed upon this, as upon all other subjects connected with the welfare of these kingdoms—agreeing with that hon.
 262
 The Lord Advocate  would have no objection to see the whole light-house system of the United Kingdom placed under the Board of Admiralty, but he did object to having it under the control of the Trinity Board. It should be recollected how the Trinity Board was constituted. It was formed by about twenty-two masters of ships, and from it the officers of the King's service were altogether excluded. In short, it was a self-constituted body, and he therefore, on the part of the people of Scotland, must say that it would be most imprudent to place such enormous sums of money in the power of any merely self-elected body, who would be likely to apply three-fourths of them in the way of pensions. He did not think that the lights already under the superintendance of the Board were so well attended to as to justify such a measure, but although he had many other objections to it he would not at that hour detain the House by entering into them.
 Lord Ashley  remarked, that there was a distinction in the words regulating the half-pay of the army, and the half-pay of the navy. In the one it was "to defray all demands for the half-pay of the army up to the 31st of March," while in the other it was "to defray all demands for
 229 Gazette.
 Lord Ashley  said, he wished to explain to the House the difficulty in which the Government found itself, in consequence of certain votes in the Navy Estimates not having yet passed. On Friday next, it would be necessary, in accordance with the usual custom, to give notice in the  Gazette 226
 Lord Granville Somerset  did not rise to oppose the motion, but be could not agree
 256 l.
 Mr. Aaron Chapman  would not anticipate any objections to the Bill intended to be brought in by the hon. Member for Middlesex. For his part, he could have no feelings of regret at anything said by the hon. Member for Middlesex about the Trinity House, when he saw, that it was recommended that all the light-houses of England, Scotland and Ireland, should be put under the management of that Board. It was not correct to state, that the amount of expenses of collecting was so large as 20 percent. If the hon. Member looked to the scale of collection, he would find
 258 s. d.
 Colonel Leith Hay , as a member of the late Board of Ordnance, wished to give some explanation on this subject. There had been a negotiation between the Corporation and inhabitants of Gravesend and the late Board of Ordnance, for the purchase of this fort; but a difference arose between them regarding the reservation of certain roads, and that the late Board of Ordnance seeing no prospect of those gentlemen coming to a conclusion on that point, felt it their duty to break off the negotiation altogether. They also took the opinion of the then Attorney-General, as to the agreement which had been partly concluded, who gave it as his opinion that the contract had been rendered void by the conduct of those parties; that the Ordnance had a right to put an end to it,
 222 Edward Knatchbull l. l.
 Colonel Leith Hay  had said, that the late Board had determined on the sale of this property, and that the present Board on coming into office, without inquiry had stopped the sale.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that in point of fact, this was a modest application on the part of the inhabitants of Gravesend, to be allowed 3,000 l. l.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that in that stage of the proceedings he should trouble the House but very shortly. He must, however, say a word on the part of the hon. Gentleman's (Mr. Hume's) statement, which related to Ireland, and that was of complaint against the hon. Gentleman; for, as had just been observed by the hon. Member(Mr.Chapman) who had addressed the House, that the hon. Member (Mr. Hume) had summed up his censure of the Trinity Board by recommending the entire management of the light-houses of the United Kingdom to be centered in that Board—so he had concluded his praise of
 259
 Mr. Sinclair  was understood to say, that if the gentlemen opposite were so anxious to vindicate the dignity and privilege of the House against the aspersions of the newspapers, the newspapers in their own interest would furnish them with abundant materials, for these papers had uttered the grossest libels against gentlemen on his side of the House.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  concurred in all that had been said by his right hon. Friend. Had he been inclined to follow the course which had been pursued by the noble Lord, he might have come down to that House, and complained of some very gross attacks that had been made upon him within the last forty-eight hours. He thought it, however, much better to abstain from doing so, as the attacks were too contemptible for notice, and he would not therefore notice them.
 Mr. Labouchere  would be sorry that any such inconvenience as that alluded to should arise; but he must say, that after listening to the statement of the noble Lord, he could not understand in what way the votes asked for were more necessary than any other votes relating to the army, or any other public service. It was undoubtedly intended by the arrangement entered into last year, that all the Estimates of the year should be passed before the 1st of April, but he repeated, that he did not think the passing of the particular votes in question more necessary than the passing of any other money votes. He believed about 1,000,000 l. 227
 Mr. Warburton  said, that if on selling the property to the town of Gravesend any abatement should be made in its actual value, care ought to be taken that the property was appropriated to public, not to private purposes.
 The Speaker  intimated to the hon. Member that he was out of order in making these observations, when there was no Question before the House.
 Dr. Bowring  said, the Government of France was very desirous this interchange should take place between the two countries, with the condition that it should not be interrupted either in peace or by war.
 Dr. Bowring  asked the right hon. Baronet whether he was prepared to give an-answer to the question which he had some time ago put to him, as to the interchange of literary works between England and France.
 Dr. Bowring  concurred in the opinions expressed by the right hon. Secretary at War, and the right hon. Member for Montgomeryshire. There was very great difficulty in administering the expenditure with regularity, and this difficulty would be enhanced if the plan of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Cumberland, was acceded to. If money which had been voted for other purposes might be applied to meet the demands made for half-pay, this kind of application, without the au
 231
 Mr. Herries  had heard, with satisfaction, the observations made by his right hon. friend, (Sir James Graham), and was glad to find, that he relaxed somewhat from that rigid rule which he had been formerly disposed to apply to the appropriation of public money; but he (Mr. Herries) confessed, that he did not understand the distinction now drawn by that right hon. Gentleman. The right hon. Gentleman maintained, that after the passing of the Appropriation Act, all the monies appropriated to particular purposes should be strictly confined to those purposes; but he added, that in the interval between the passing of the votes (which was as much an act of appropriation as the Appropriation Act itself) and the passing of that Act, monies might be indiscriminately applied to the necessities of the service for which those monies were voted. He (Mr. Herries) always had maintained that that strict appropriation of money to separate parts of the same service, which had been so much urged on the Government, was in practice impossible. He thought his noble Friend had taken the only coarse open to him, in explaining the situation in which the Government was placed, and calling on the House for a vote of money. If it were to be understood now, as it had been formerly, that all navy monies might be applied constitutionally to any part of the Navy Service, then there would be no necessity for the proposed vote; but if it were not constitutional to appropriate public money to any other purpose than that to which it was specifically assigned, then it would be necessary for the House, in order to enable the Admiralty to carry on the current service, to furnish it with the means to provide for those payments, which the noble Lord had observed would shortly become due.
 Mr. Hume , in pursuance of his notice, called the attention of the House to the Report of the Select Committee on Light-houses, with a view to their consolidation under one management. This Committee was appointed in the last Session of Parliament, for the purpose of taking into consideration the state of the Light-houses in the United Kingdom, the expense of maintaining them, &c. Highly important as the subject was, it had never before undergone a
 247 
 
 No. 1.—ENGLAND. 
 Lighthouses. Floating. 
 Trinity-house 42 13 
 Under management of do 1 1 
 Private hands On lease from do 3 0 
 ———Crown 7 0 
 Patent, Act of Parliament 4 0 
 57 14 
 Local, or Habour do. 51 4 
 108 18 
 No. 2.—SCOTLAND. 
 Northern Light 25 0 
 Local, or Harbour do 28 0 
 53 0 
 No. 3.—IRELAND. 
 Ballast Board 23 3 
 Ballast Harbour 9 0 
 Ballast Harbour. Without revenue 5 0 
 37 3 248 
 
 Public Light-houses. Floating. Local. Total. 
 No. 1.—England. 57 18 51 126 
 2.—Scotland. 25 0 28 53 
 3.—Ireland. 23 3 14 40 
 Total of each. 105 21 93 219 l. 1. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 249 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 250 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 251 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 
 
 Light-house. Gross Collection. Per Centage or Commission. Rent and Land-tax. Expenses for Maintenance. Nett Surpuls to Proprietors. Propriestors. 
 £. £. £. £. £. 
 Spurn High Light-house. 12,813 1,626 242 1,987 8,958 Benedict John Angel, Esq. and G. L. Thomson, Esq. 
 Tyne-mouth Castle, in fee. 3,844 462 689 2,693 Wm. Fowke, Esq. 
 Skerries, Co. Anglesey (in fee). 14,479 1,604 350 12,525 Sutton Morgan, Esq. 
 Total. 31,136 3,692 242 3,026 24,176 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 252 l. l. l. l. 253 l. l. 254 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 255 l. s. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  said, that if the case was as the noble Lord had told the House, that the half-pay could not be paid until these votes were passed, he, for one, should be very sorry to stop the pay of any half-pay officer. But he could not agree in the propriety of such an arrangement, and he should be glad to learn from the right lion. Baronet who had made the arrangement, how it came to be made.
 Mr. Pease  said, that while he admitted the high character and honour of the Trinity Board, he considered some alteration was necessary, its constitution being of too restricted a character. He hoped that in any settlement of this question the expenses which had been incurred by the builders of private light-houses would not be forgotten.
 Colonel Parry  concurred in the opinions expressed by the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Kirkcudbright. The question ought not to be one of pounds, shillings, and pence, but one of which the object was national. He complained that there was much loss of property on the coast of North Wales. He could mention a circumstance which strongly marked the necessity of some improvement in the system regarding lighthouses. Within the last week a vessel of the value of 12,000 l.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  was favourable to the establishment of a central board for the management of all the lighthouses in the kingdom. The inhabitants of that part of Scotland with which he was connected, were not at all satisfied with the administration of the Board of Northern Lights. He believed that the gentlemen of whom that Board was composed were men of the highest honour; but, in point of fact, they were entirely ignorant of nautical affairs, and, in consequence, left the whole management of the lights to their engineer, who had often a personal interest in erecting them in places where they were not so much required as in others. The hon. Gentleman proceeded to complain of the want of proper lights in the Solway Frith, which, with the exception of the Red Sea, (and he would scarcely even make that an exception) was acknowledged to be the most dangerous navigation in the world. He had for many years
 257
 Mr. Ingham  expressed his decided opinion that the great mass of people in the north of England, who were interested in the question, were perfectly satisfied with the management of the Trinity Board. The whole amount received for lights was 83,000 l. l.
 Mr. Wyse  concurred in the praises which had been bestowed upon the hon. Member for Middlesex, for the very distinct manner in which he had brought the motion before the House; and if any confirmation were necessary of the merit which was thus attached to that hon. Member, he (Mr. Wyse) should appeal for that confirmation to the speech of the noble Lord on the other side of the House (Lord G. Somerset), for a weaker defence against the charges which had been brought forward by the hon. Member for Middlesex, he (Mr. Wyse) had never yet heard, than that which had been made by that noble Lord. They had heard that night, what they had not of late been in the habit of hearing in that House—they had heard a well-deserved eulogium passed upon Irish economy, which, at the same time that it was highly creditable to that country, reflected the greatest disgrace, not so much upon the English nation, as upon the English administration. He would ask the noble Lord, how it came to pass, that the administration of one department in this country was not conducted with an equal degree of credit to that of the same department in Ireland? How it came to pass, that the same skill and integrity which he admitted to exist in the administration of that department in Ireland, was not to be met with in England? Also, what there was so peculiar in the administration of this department in Ire-
 260 261
 Mr. Ewart  was sorry to hear the noble Lord at the head of the Woods and Forests, resort to such a justification of the charges imposed upon the public by the owners of private light-houses, as that of their having made a considerable reduction in the charges originally exacted. He did not conceive that the gratitude of the public should be measured by the reduction of a charge which was originally unwarranted, and still remained extravagant. With respect to the measure now proposed to be introduced, he thought that the interests not only of the merchant but of the consumer, would be greatly benefited by it.
 Mr. William Roche. —Sir, deeming the Petition which I hold in my hand to be one of very considerable importance, to both the com-
 219 l. 220 animus 
 
 Qrs. 
 1,000 bolls, weighing 196 lbs. each boll, turn out by measure 41 lbs. per bushel, or 597½ 
 1,000 bolls weighing 196 lbs., each boll, turn out by measure 42 lbs. per bushel, or 583¼ 
 Difference and loss to the Irish shipper - 14¼ which at 30 s. l. s. d. 221
 Mr. Tooke  presented a Petition from the Corporation and Inhabitants of Gravesend, praying that the sale of the Blockhouse Fort by the Board of Ordnance, which was advertised for the 30th inst., should be deferred, in order to afford the petitioners an opportunity of purchasing it, for the purpose of converting it into a place of public recreation. The petitioners stated, that it was advertised to be sold in forty lots, that it was likely to be converted into small cottages, and to become a nuisance, instead of being one of the public attractions of the place. The petitioners, after giving a statement of their negotiations with the late and present Board of Ordnance, for the purchase of this ground, proceeded to say, that the inhabitants of Gravesend would be willing to give a reasonable price for the ground in one lot, but that they would not enter into a competition with other purchasers, if it should be put up in forty lots, as in that case if one lot was purchased by some other party, their object might be defeated, and the place converted into a nuisance. The hon. Member hoped that the Board of Ordnance would attend to the prayer of the petitioners.
 Sir Edward Codrington  rose and said, that in consequence of what had passed yesterday in the House, and the feeling so strongly expressed by the House on the nature of the attack, he did not wish to go further in the present business, and he hoped the House would go no further in it. The transaction was fully explained, and his conduct fully vindicated. He thought what had taken place would be a sufficient lesson to those whose conduct rendered such a course necessary. He hoped the noble Lord would not press his motion.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  took the responsibility of the deferring of this sale on himself, as he had advised the Master-General to put it off. He assured the hon. Member, that there was not the
 223
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  complained of the charges which had been made by the gallant Member against the present Board of Ordnance. There had been no intention on their part to cast any imputation on the late Board.
 Sir Frederick Trench  was sorry the hon. and gallant Officer should have thought it necessary to censure the motives of the Master-General of the Ordnance. He could venture to say, that the mind of the Master-General was influenced by no other motive than a desire to afford facility to any arrangement tending to promote the health, the interests, or the recreation of the inhabitants of Gravesend as far as was consistent with his duty to the public. [Colonel  Leith Hay: 224
 Sir James Graham  said, that when the alteration was made in the Appropriation Act, it certainly was the desire of the officers of the Crown that the estimates for each year should pass before the 1st of April; but it was at the same time foreseen, that great difficulty might probably arise in attaining that object; and in the first year the experiment altogether failed. However, he could not see any constitutional impediment in the way of applying money to one great branch of the public service generally to the use of that branch, after the passing of the Resolutions, and before the passing of the Appropriation Act. The hon. Member for Middlesex would recollect, that the objection which he had taken to the application of the public money to a different purpose than that originally intended, did not refer to such an application as was made in the interval between the passing of the money vote, and the passing of the Appropriation Act. What he objected to was, that after money had been appropriated by Parliament to one service, that money, so appropriated, should be transferred to another. But he never had contended, and never could contend, that in the interval between the passing of the vote, and the final appropriation by Parliament, there ought to be the least difficulty on the part of the Executive in carrying on the service during that interval by the aid of the monies voted. With respect to the present case of the Navy Service, the sum voted the other night amounted to 2,000,000 l. There is nothing voted. 228
 Sir James Graham  was decidedly of opinion, that until the Appropriation Act was passed, which was the final act of the Legislature, an application of the money which had been granted to different purposes from those for which it was designed, might be made without any violation of a constitutional principle. A vote of the House of Commons was certainly an indication of the manner in which the money would be appropriated, but until this was done, there was nothing to prevent a discretion being exercised in defraying the current, services out of the Appropriation Fund. This was the only way to meet such difficulties when they arose, unless the House would consent from year to year to pass the Estimates before the end of April. As the practice was now, Parliament did not meet till the middle or the end of February, and it was hardly constitutional to call upon the House to pass these Estimates within six weeks from their being first assembled, as it would go to weaken or take away the check which the House was enabled to exercise over the Executive. He attached, as well as the right hon. Secretary-at-War, the greatest importance to a proper strictness being observed with reference to the Appropriation Act, but publicity was the best preventive against abuse, and the best way would be to defray the expenses of the current services out of the money voted for those services, being somewhere about 2,000,000 l.
 Mr. Goulburn  interposed: He was not aware whether the hon. Member contemplated any motion, but certainly the Committee sworn to try the merits of the petition, had a perfect right to adopt that decision if they thought it justified by the facts of the case.
 Mr. Gisborne  wished to call the attention of the House to a Petition, which he presented last night, from Mr. Joseph Parkes, the agent for the Petitioners, complaining of the Return in the Borough of Leicester Election. The Petitioner wished to be allowed to alter the name of one of the persons who had been given in as sureties. It appeared that when a gentleman who had been named in the first instance, declined to become surety, the agent was authorized to give in the name of Mr. Thomas Stokes, of Leicester, for that purpose, but that, by some clerical error, the name of Mr. Samuel Stokes was given in. He was not aware of this until yesterday morning, when he received a letter from Mr. Stone, the solicitor for the petitioner, against the sitting Members at Leicester, informing him of the error, and that it was then too late to give the usual notice of this change. The Act enabled the House to alter the name of the proposed securities once, but it stated that the time shall not be enlarged more than once, or for a longer period than thirty days. The name of the securities had been altered once, and the present was not an application for that purpose, but merely that leave might be given to rectify that which was little more than a clerical error. If the Motion was assented to, no injury would be inflicted on any party, nor was there the slightest ground for supposing that any injustice would be done. The House had consented to a much more important alteration the other night, in reference to the Ennis petition, by substituting the number six for five in the
 269
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, that the Motion of the hon. Member could not be assented to without violating the letter of the Act. It was directly contrary to that Act to let the name be altered a second time. With respect to the Ennis case, he would only observe, that it was not analogous to the present case, as then the only question was, whether parties should be allowed to alter the number of a house, which number they were not under the necessity of inserting.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that hon. Gentlemen on the other side gave two different interpretations to the same Act. The interpretation given in the first place was, that name meant person. Now, it was not in the present case wished to substitute one person for another, but one name for another name erroneously given to the same person. The House having decided that person was the proper interpretation of the word name, he contended that they had the power to make the required alteration.
 Mr. Law  was of opinion, that the prayer of the petition contemplated, not only a breach of the Statute, but of the regulations of the House. The Statute said, that the name should not be changed more than once, and the name had been already changed. Then there was not sufficient time, for the 30th of the present month was the day by which the whole matter must be decided, and the House required seven days' notice even from the presentation of the petition, in order that the other party might have the opportunity of examining into the sufficiency of the sureties.
 Sir Matthew While Ridley  contended that the case required only a common sense view to dispose of it properly. The first object of the House in such matters was, to do justice between the parties—in the first place, to the petitioners; and, secondly, to the sitting Member. He thought the Act would be in no respect violated by allowing the error, which was only a clerical error, to be corrected. The Statute, he admitted, would not allow the surety to be changed more than once, but it would allow of the Christian
 270
 Mr. Grote  said, that while the Act precluded the substitution of one person for another more than once, it did not preclude the correction of an error in the name ten times over, if the House thought fit. It did not appear to him that the Act objected to the change of the residence more than once.
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn  said, the error was not to be considered merely a clerical error; because, if they granted the prayer of the petition, they would deprive the other party of the power intended to be given to him of inquiring into the sufficiency of the sureties. On the 20th of this month, notice was served on the sitting Members, that a person of the name of Samuel Stokes, of the parish of St. Mary, Leicester, was named a surety. The parties went to inquire for him; it was a large parish, and they could not find any such person. Then, on the 25th, came another notice, which told the parties that they had been looking after the wrong man, and that they should inquire after Thomas Stokes in the same parish. The consequence was, that the parties could not have the time to which they were entitled, viz. seven days, the 30th being the day on which the recognizance would be perfected.
 Mr. Joseph Parkes  was then called to the Bar; and having been sworn, was examined. He said that he was instructed, on the 20th of March, to substitute the name of Thomas Stokes for Matthew Babington. On the 20th of March he tended the affidavit of Thomas Stokes to the examiners, and delivered the name of Samuel Stokes to Mr. Rose. The mistake made of giving the name Samuel instead of Thomas, was an error on his part, and it was committed without the least intention of creating delay or difficulty. In reply to the Attorney-General, he said he had a knowledge of Leicester, and wag acquainted with only two persons there of the name of Stokes, one Thomas and the other Benjamin. He had had no communication by letter with Thomas Stokes; the only communication with him was the receipt of his affidavit. He first applied to change the name of Babington to Stokes on the 20th of March. He communicated the error yesterday morn-
 271
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the question lay within the narrowest possible compass. If the House passed a law, it was the duty of the House, as it was the duty of the other subjects of his Majesty, to set the example of conforming to the laws. The enactment provided that seven clear days should intervene between the day on which the names of the sureties should be given in, and entered in a book, and the day on which the sufficiency of the sureties was to be examined into. The question then was, whether the name of Samuel having been given in, the House had afterwards power to sanction the substitution of that of Thomas—would that be a compliance with the Act? A name had been given in seven days before completing the surety—would they, by substituting another name, comply with the rule?
 Mr. Harvey  did not agree in the terms of the distinction taken by the right hon. Baronet (the Chancellor of the Exchequer). The substitution was merely the name of Thomas for Samuel; it was the same surety, but an error merely having been committed, they could allow the parties to correct the error.
 The Attorney-General  said, if the House had the power of granting the Motion for the alteration of the name in the case of a mistake, it ought to grant it. He fully admitted that without any reserve; but it was another matter when the mistake might make it too late for the sitting Member to write into the country on the subject of the inquiry into the sureties' sufficiency. He thought the time had gone by. He was reluctant to address the House on the subject, but as it was peculiarly within his province as a lawyer, he could not avoid it. He would appeal
 272
 The Speaker  said, if it were the pleasure of the House, he would give it his opinion. [ "Divide," "Chair"
 Lord Sandon,  amidst cries of "Question" and "Divide," said, if they adopted the principle contended for by the Motion, it was indifferent for how long it was. He would appeal to the other side, whether they were acting honestly, in dealing with this question in the manner they were doing.
 Mr. Robinson  never saw such proceedings on a question where there ought to be the absence of all party feeling, and it would be recollected that the other side of the House (the Opposition) cheered when the witness was under examination at the Bar. He thought the House had not power to dispense with the rule, although it was a mere  laches
 Mr. Rolfe  felt unpleasantly situated when he thought he was bound to vote against the party he usually voted with, and it was a question how far, when acting with a political party as a body, he could be permitted to vote against them on questions like the present. He agreed with the Attorney-General, that the question was, whether the House had authority to interfere under the Act. It was impossible to enlarge the time beyond Monday next; the rule must apply, and there would be no time if the place were Cork, or any other distant town.
 Mr. Richards  had voted with the majority under the impression that it was for the correction of a mere clerical error, but he was now bound to say he had found out he had, by so doing, acted erroneously.
 Lord John Russell  differed from his hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney-General, on the construction of the Act, as to the alteration of the name, and he thought the words of the Act did not preclude them from making such an alteration as was then proposed. In this case, the name of the surety had been given; they did not propose to change it, but merely to correct a clerical error committed by altering the name of the same person.
 Lord Francis Egerton  amidst cries of "Question," said, that though, as had been observed, they did not propose to substitute another person, but another name, still the effect would be the same to the parties interested.
 Mr. Warburton  said, in case there had been no name of a surety delivered in till that day, he should have agreed with those who opposed the Motion, because seven days could not then elapse. But the name of the surety had been given as far back as the 20th or 21st instant.
 Mr. Harries  said, the hon. Member for Bridport (Mr. Warburton) had stated the case truly. The name of Samuel Stokes had been given in from the 20th inst. and continued till yesterday. The sitting Member only knew that as the real name.
 Mr. Lefroy  rose to bring a similar matter under the notice of the House, and to draw their attention to the consideration of the petition which he had presented last night, for leave to rectify a mistake in the name of a proposed surety in the case of the Cork County Election. The object of the Petition was to obtain an enlargement of the time for entering into the recognizances, with the view of correcting a clerical error in the Christian name of one of the sureties; the words "William Mannix" having been inserted instead of "Henry Mannix." 274
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Shaw) had remarked, that these petitions were identical; and yet he voted against the one and seemed disposed to vote in favour of the other. The right hon. Gentleman, after such an admission, had certainly displayed considerable moral courage in taunting the hon. Member for Middlesex with an avowal that he would vote black to be white against Ministers. The hon. Member (Mr. Shaw) would not truly vote black to be white; but he showed a perfect willingness to vote orange one way, and green the other. He acted judicially, too, in the decision to which they had, in the former instance, come; and, as a learned Judge, he called upon those who sat at his (Mr. O'Connell's) side of the House, to do justice in the cases of both petitions, though he appeared to forget, that in these instances he was himself open to the charge of voting justice only to one party. He could not avoid congratulating the learned Judge, and those to whom he administered justice, on his admirable consistency. The noble Lord, the Member for Liverpool, too, charged those on his side of the House with inconsistency, in voting in one case differently from the manner in
 278 alibi
 The Attorney General  was desirous not to cast the slightest imputations upon hon. Members at either side of the House, with respect to the course which they had taken with reference to those petitions. He could not help, however, expressing it as his opinion, that he did not consider there was the slightest inconsistency in opposing the prayer of the last, and granting that of the present petition. He had before stated that the indulgence which was sought ought to be granted, if the House had the power of conceding the request. There was no doubt that in this instance the House had the power of allowing that alteration in the names of the securities to be made when the substitution could be made without violating the law, which proposed that there should be a certain time for the purpose of enabling the sitting Member to examine the competency of those securities.
 Mr. Goulburn  had no objection to state that it was his intention to propose an Amendment to that Motion.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he had no objection to do so; but it was difficult to state an Amendment without stating the reasons on which it was grounded. He would say, however, that the Amendment would be to the effect that his Majesty would be graciously pleased to order copies of the memorials which had been presented against this charter, together with an account of the proceedings before the Privy Council.
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn  observed that the hon. Gentleman had omitted the main point, which was, whether the House, without receiving any information as to what had taken place before the Privy Council and the proceedings which had followed, should, under the circumstances in which they stood, vote an address to the Crown, praying his Majesty to confer a Charter on this institution, and expressing in that Address the restrictions with which they wished that Charter might be granted. It should be recollected by the House that the hon. Member brought forward a similar Motion last Session, and that, on the recommendation of the noble Lord, then Chancellor of the Exchequer, he withdrew it, and the Question was referred to his Majesty, and to the responsible advisers of the Crown. The Question had undergone anxious investigation. It had been referred to the Privy Council, and this at a time most favourable to the interests of those concerned for the University, and then those parties who conceived that they were likely to be injured by the grant of this Charter stated the reasons which appeared to them conclusive against the grant. Yet, now the hon. Gentleman came forward again to ask them—without any knowledge of the proceedings before the Privy Council, or the objections to the grant that had been there stated—without any knowledge
 282
 Mr. O'Loghlen  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the appointment of convenient places to hold the Assizes in Ireland. The hon. and learned Member said, persons in Ireland had to travel sometimes sixty or seventy miles to obtain justice. He need not say, how very inconvenient such a state of things must be; he should be happy to meet with the assistance of any hon. Members in preparing his Bill, and as he did not expect any opposition to his motion, he would simply move for leave to bring in his Bill.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, he did not intend to offer any opposition to the measure—he only hoped sufficient time would be given to refer the matter to a Commission.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not intend any opposition—he only wished to say, that he was afraid the vigilance of
 304
 Mr. Wyse  said, that some time ago an attempt was made to remove the assizes from Waterford. The Bill had met with great opposition from the inhabitants; and he was afraid the hon. and learned Member had sought to introduce a measure which was extremely obnoxious to the great body of the magistracy of the county.
 Mr. Littleton  said, that from his experience in Ireland, he believed such a measure would be extremely useful. He thought the apprehension of his hon. Friend was quite unfounded, because it would be quite impossible to remove the assizes without the concurrence of the Privy Council.
 Mr. Walker  looked upon the measure as giving the death-blow to the independence of Ireland. He had no objection to the Privy Council of England, but he wished the affair to be brought to the proper tribunal, and that was that House. He would not refer it to a tribunal, not only partial, but consisting wholly of one party. When he knew that the Grand Juries in Ireland were nominated by the Orange Sheriffs, and the Orange Sheriffs of Ireland by the Orange Judges, and these Orange Judges forming a large and influential portion of the Privy Council of Ireland, he must say, that a more unjust proposal could not have been imagined, and he trusted that Irish Members, having a majority against Orangemen, would not permit the Bill to pass [ "Hear"
 Mr. O'Loghlen  said, he had not expected such opposition, It had been objected to vesting, in the Lord Lieutenant and Privy Council, the power of choosing proper places for holding the assizes; and he did say, that he thought it was carrying party spirit too far to attribute the influence of partial feeling to such persons. There was a check upon them if they were disposed to act in that manner, because, without the consent of the Grand Juries of the county (who were composed of men not very likely to appoint inconvenient places for the assizes), they would not be enabled to carry this Bill into execution. He thought their objection, however, would come with better force in the Committee, when they would examine into the details, as this resolution was only intended to introduce the principles of the Bill.
 Mr. Ruthven  having expressed his disapprobation of the Privy Council of Ireland,
 DR. Lushington  said, the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Goulburn) opposed the Motion on the ground that the House was not in possession of sufficient information. The right hon. Gentleman said the memorials laid before the Privy Council upon this subject, and the proceedings which arose out of them, the arguments and discussions, ought to be first before the House. The right hon. Gentleman had ample time for perusing all these documents. Had he produced any arguments from these documents they might perhaps afford reason for rejecting the Motion altogether, but their absence afforded no reason for delay. The right hon. gentleman was well aware that the memorials or arguments of Counsel would have no effect upon the House, otherwise he would have availed himself of them upon this occasion. The Members for both Universities were in that House, and if there were any solid objections to this Motion they could easily have stated them on the part of the Universities. His hon. Friend (Sir Robert Inglis) said, it would be interfering with the prerogative of the Crown to grant the Motion. What interference was it with the prerogative of the Crown to ask his Majesty to exercise it for the benefit of the country? Would it be said that Oxford and Cambridge were sufficient to fill up the void which now existed in the public education of this country? Were they extensive or economical enough? They were notoriously so expensive that education in them must be confined to persons in a high rank of life. They could not effect the purpose proposed by the University of London. What was that purpose? Why, to afford the opportunities for education to the children of the vast population of London, consisting of all sects and persuasions. How many persons were there who, having witnessed the expense, the inconveniences, and evils, of education at a distance from home wished to have their children under their own eye? As his hon. Friend (Sir Robert Inglis) would exclude the great body of the Dissenters from education in Oxford and Cambridge he ought, in common justice and humanity, to be disposed to grant the privilege now sought for. His hon. Friend said, the value of the degree
 286 sub judice. Robert Inglis: sub judice.
 Mr. Baring , notwithstanding the sweeping charge of illiberality which the hon. Member for Bridport had brought against those who sat upon the Treasury Bench, begged to remind the hon. Member that he was one of the earliest subscribers to the London University; and having been one of the earliest subscribers, he certainly was enabled to confirm one of the observations that had fallen from the
 290 291 Cries of "Question!" and "Divide."
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose and said, I take it for granted, from the general demand that is made in the lower part of the House for an immediate division, that the Gentlemen assembled there are perfectly acquainted with the nature of the Motion on which they are going to divide, that they have maturely weighed the proposal upon which they are going to address the Crown, and, therefore, that they consider there no longer remains any necessity for further discussion; but, to those who are not exactly aware—to that portion of the House which not having heard the argument [a number of Members had just entered the House] cannot be acquainted with the nature of the proposal upon which we are going to pronounce an opinion, I take the liberty of reading the Motion. It is in these words: "That the House do agree to an Address to his Majesty, beseeching him to grant his Royal Charter of incorporation to the University of London, as approved in the year 1831 by the then Law Officers of the Crown, and continuing no other restrictions than against conferring Degrees in Divinity and in Medicine." No man who has not read the Report of the then Law Officers of the Crown, or does not know the contents of it, is very well qualified to press the restrictions specified in the Motion upon the Crown. The address is to grant a charter of incorporation, but to grant it upon the principle approved of by the Law Officers of the Crown in 1831. Now, I ask the House of Commons whether it be decorous to proceed on a certain night to address the Sovereign of this country to grant a charter to a certain body according to the
 292 293 Warburton 294 "Hear, hear!" "Hear!" "Hear!" "No, no!"
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : The hon. Gentleman refers to a paper which he admits has been very imperfectly delivered. Was there ever such a farce. He holds in his hand a paper which he admits has been very imperfectly delivered this afternoon.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : Then I must have misunderstood the hon. Gentleman. I understood him to say, that the paper was not printed until to-day, and that as yet it had been but very imperfectly distributed. But I will not dwell upon the point. I proceed. I have described the proposition of the hon. Member for Truro. Now what is the proposal of my right hon. Friend, the Member for the University of Cambridge? He proposes an amendment, praying his Majesty to give directions that there be laid before the House, not merely the proceedings before the Privy Council, but copies of the Memorials presented to, and the proceedings had before, the Privy Council, in the matter of the London University. I conceive that the House, being in possession of all those documents, will be better able to determine what course it will be proper to pursue, than it can be at the present moment. The hon. Member for Bridport says, that he shall feel it to be his duty to press the question to a division, unless I will pledge myself to take the adoption of a particular plan which he has pointed out, into my serious consideration? I will not, for the purpose of evading the temporary difficulty, give any pledge of the kind required by the hon. Member. If the House shall think it decorous to proceed to an Address to the Crown, praying that a Charter may be granted to the University, as settled by the Law-officers in 1831—if it shall be prepared to say to-night, that the Charter
 296 297
 Lord John Russell  said, that when the right hon. Baronet acknowledged that the claims of the Dissenters to admission to Universities were well grounded, and when he said that those who did not conform to the Church of England should have an opportunity of obtaining academical honours, he wished that the right hon. Baronet had, at the same time, pointed out some way in which the House could have expressed its acquiescence in his opinion. But while the right hon. Baronet allowed the justice of the claim under consideration he did
 298 l. 299 300
 Mr. Scarlett  observed, that the House was precluded, by the Grenville Act, from taking up the subject in the way proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard. Unless there was a special report, he doubted whether the House could proceed further with the case. The Committee had to determine whether the sitting Member or the petitioner was duly elected, and they determined in favour of the petitioner; and there the matter must end unless the late sitting Member chose to petition the House.
 Lord Francis Egerton  said that, if this mistake were not considered a clerical error, it could only be construed into an intentional fraud, and he did not believe that any one would attach such an interpretation to the proposed intention in the present case. Indeed if there were a doubt upon the mind of any hon. Member as to this point, he thought it ought to be immediately removed, when he reflected that the residence of Henry Mannix was given with the name of William inserted by mistake as one of the securities.
 Lord Francis Egerton  said, that as he intended to vote for the Amendment of his right hon. Friend, he was anxious to guard himself against the supposition of being disposed to quash the proposition of the hon. Member for Truro. Enter-
 287
 Mr. Charles Buller  said, that there was a question before the House, and that he should conclude with an Amendment.
 Mr. Charles Buller  said, that the Counsel for the petitioner were not aware of it until it was adopted, and then objected to it. The effect of the decision was of some interest to the House; serving on an election Committee was no very agreeable task, and by the resolution this Committee had shifted the burden from its own shoulders to that of another Committee to be appointed upon the petition of Mr. Villiers. He was aware that there were precedents apparently justifying the proceeding, and had they been in point he, perhaps, should not have objected to this result.
 Mr. Charles Buller  wished, briefly, to direct the attention of the House to the Report. The circumstances under which it had been agreed to were these:—In the opening of the proceeding before the Committee, Mr. Harrison, as counsel for the petitioner, proposed not to go into his whole case, but begged the Committee first to examine one point, viz.: Whether the returning officer had not partially and improperly exercised his discretion by rejecting certain votes that were upon the register, and ought to have been received, thereby giving Mr. Villiers a colourable majority. The consequence of establishing this point, as the learned Counsel stated, would be, that the petitioner would be placed in the situation of the sitting Member, and the sitting Member should be allowed to petition if he thought fit. The Committee acquiesced in this course, and after entering upon the inquiry specified, decided that Mr. Lushington had a legal majority of votes; that he ought to be returned, and that Mr. Villiers ought, if he thought it expedient, to be permitted to petition against that return. This was an exercise of discretion on the part of the Committee that in his (Mr. C. Buller's) opinion, ought not to be supported but on very substantial grounds. The House would at once perceive the hardship upon Mr. Villiers; he had brought a number of witnesses to London, expecting that the case would be proceeded with in the usual way, and now found that he must maintain them at a heavy expense during the fourteen days allowed him to petition, or relinquish his right altogether.
 Mr. Charles Buller , was speaking strictly to the question. An instance of the kind did not occur once in twenty years, so that the precedents were few. One of these, upon which the Committee had relied, was the Middlesex case: there Sir Francis Burdett had a majority over Mr. Mainwaring on the fifteen days' poll; but the returning officer thought proper to keep the poll open for a sixteenth day, and at the close of the sixteenth day Mr. Muinwaring had the majority. The Committee had decided, that as it was clearly illegal in the returning officer to keep the poll open for sixteen days, Sir Francis Burdett ought to have been returned; and they, therefore, made Mr. Mainwaring the petitioner. In the Carnarvon case, the returning officer had admitted votes, contrary to the express directions of an Act of Parliament: the Committee struck them off, and, unseating the sitting Member, left him to petition, if he thought, fit. The determination of the present Committee was clearly incomplete, and they had no right to come before the House with such a Resolution, and to pretend they had discharged the duty imposed upon them, without entering upon a scrutiny of
 266
 Mr. Harvey  observed, that next to avoiding any error, the best course was to devise the safest and most effectual means to correct it; and when upon that principle he had voted for the prayer of the former petition, he felt himself compelled, by the dictates of justice, not to reverse in the present the vote which he had given in the previous case. He would however, for an instant recal the attention of the House to the circumstances attending the former petition. He would remind hon. Gentlemen that the request of that pe-
 275 276
 Mr. Ronayne  said, that the very fact of the residence having been mentioned in the first instance, confirmed him in the opinion that William was not inadvertently substituted for Henry; because, as it was proved that these two individuals were brothers, it was extremely likely that William, being the younger, resided at
 279
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  opposed the Motion on the same ground as he had voted against the last.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that the former petition had prayed for the substitution of the name of Thomas for Samuel. And there-quest contained in the present petition was, that the name of William should be changed for that of Henry. The only difference he could perceive between them, therefore, was, that one was presented by an hon. Member sitting on the other side of the House, and that the present petition had been brought under their notice by his hon. colleague. He perceived, that the hon. and learned Member expressed his approval of the correctness of the opinion which he had ventured to pronounce; but he could not believe, that the hon. Members opposite would—unless they acted on the principle of the hon. Member for Middlesex, who had asserted, that he would state black was white to support the party on his side of the House—reject the prayer of the petition.
 Mr. George F. Young  thought that the House had, in all cases, the right either to receive or reject the decision of an election Committee. At present he was unable to form an opinion on this subject and therefore wished to see the evidence before he was called upon to do so. He
 268
 Mr. Warburton  contended that although the report had been unanimously adopted, the House had the power of calling for the minutes of the Committee, and if it appeared that the determination was pregnant with injustice to call for the opinion of this House. He trusted, therefore, that his hon. Friend would persevere in his Motion for the production of the minutes, that the House might be in a condition to pronounce an opinion.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that although the noble Lord had concluded by expressing his determination to vote for the Amendment, he confessed, considering the views generally taken by the hon. Gentlemen who now occupied the Treasury Bench, and with whom the noble Lord was associated, upon the subject of education, he had not heard the sentiments
 288 289 tabooed
 The Speaker  agreed with the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Wynn), that, the House had no power to re-consider the determination of the Committee, but there was a Motion before the House, he could not say whether the hon. Member really meant to bring any question before the House.
 Mr. Freshfield  observed, that in some cases it was not possible for election Committees to take into consideration all the merits of the subject submitted to them.
 Mr. Freshfield  said that, to show there was no intention of fraud, Henry Mannix was prepared to show that he was the person residing at Richmond Villa, the address appended to William Mannix's name, as given in the securities.
 Mr. Kennedy  said, that in the former case, the Speaker had informed the House that he had found no precedent for making extension of time a second time, after a period of seven days had, upon the first application to Parliament, been granted for altering the securities.
 Mr. Hume  observed that the Committee should have tried, according to the Act of Parliament, which of the two parties was entitled to the seat—the sitting Member or the petitioner; but they had not done so, but had merely unseated the sitting Member.
 Mr. O'Loghlen  observed, that it appeared that a gentleman from Cork, named Cummins, had suggested that the address of Glanmere should be appended to the name of William Mannix when the securities were first entered; and it did not appear that this gentleman was forthcoming, although he had been called as a witness by the hon. Member for the University of Dublin.
 Mr. Estcourt  wished to correct a misapprehension which had run through the whole discussion, on the part of the hon. Member on the other side of the House. But before he did so, he must say, that he hailed with satisfaction the observations of the noble Lord, for he thought there could not be a stronger reason for acceding to the proposition of the Secretary of State for the Home Department than the noble Lord's statement of the assiduity which the Privy Council had applied to this question, and he thought that the House would be unjustly treated, if it was not put in possession of the result of the consideration of the Privy Council. The paper which had been exhibited to the House, and of which it had had an account from the hon. Member for Truro, he had never heard of before. The Gentlemen on the
 301
 Mr. Stratford Dugdale  said, that he was little acquainted with the forms of the House, but he apprehended that no Member had a right to call in question the decision of a Committee appointed to inquire into and determine the merits of an election petition. However amusing might be the speeches of hon. and learned Gentlemen, such a course as that now taken would be extremely inconvenient. He would not enter into any of the particulars of this case, but merely say that the decision of the Committee had been unanimous. There had, in fact, been no difference of opinion on the subject.
 Mr. Stratford Dugdale  remarked, that Counsel on both sides had been perfectly aware of the course contemplated and taken by the Committee.
 Mr. Stratford Dugdale  presented a Report from the Committee appointed to try the merits
 264
 Mr. Tooke  asked if it was the intention of the Government to oppose the Motion of which he had given notice—namely, for an "Address to his Majesty, beseeching him to grant his royal charter of incorporation to the University of London, as approved in the year 1831, by the then law officers of the Crown, and containing no other restriction than against conferring degrees in divinity and in medicine?"
 Mr. Tooke  begged to inquire the nature of the Amendment. If the right hon. Gentleman would answer the question, it might have the effect of saving the time of the House.
 Mr. Tooke  was glad to hear that such was to be the Amendment. The question it involved might be very briefly disposed of by the House. He considered that the memorials were of little, if any, weight, and that the proceedings before the Privy Council were in fact no better than a blank sheet of paper. He said that he
 280 281
 Mr. Tooke  begged to correct the hon. Member. The London University, as it really existed, did not at all emanate from the proceedings of which the hon. Member spoke. It originated in a meeting that was held long subsequent to those proceedings.
 Mr. Tooke : I am not fairly treated by the right hon. Baronet.
 Mr. Tooke  rose to explain. The right hon. Baronet had alluded to several Reports of the Law-officers of the Crown not having been produced. He thought that
 295
 Colonel Verner  begged leave to make an explanation personal to himself. (After some opposition, the hon. Member was allowed to proceed.) He said, that an hon. Member opposite had objected to his being named as a Member of the Committee appointed the other night to inquire into the Orange Societies of Ireland. He did not clearly understand the nature of the objection, but he hoped it was not meant, by the hon. and learned Member, to cast any imputation upon his honour—for, though conscious of the purity and integrity of his own intentions, he could not allow even a supposed imputation to rest upon his character on the part of others. He was at a loss to know upon what occasion he had so misconducted himself, as to be pronounced, by the hon. Member for Tipperary, an improper person to take his place on that Committee. The only instance he recollected which afforded that hon. Member an opportunity of judging of his conduct was in a Committee last year, upon a subject which interested that hon. Member not a little, and he trusted the hon. and learned Member would do him the justice to say, that, upon that occasion, his conduct was not influenced by ungenerous or unfriendly feeling's, and that he joined in the decision of that Committee as heartily as any Member belonging to it. He had had the honour to present a petition from the Grand Orange Lodge of Ireland, praying for an inquiry into the origin, nature, and principles of the Orange Institution. In the prayer of that petition he fully concurred; but he had hoped the inquiry would have been instituted before a fair and impartial tribunal—such, he must say, he could not consider the Committee appointed. He would repeat that that was not a fair tribunal—because some of its Members had already expressed themselves in such terms of the Orange Society, as to render them any thing but fair and impartial judges; and if the House would permit him to read one or two short extracts from the sentiments declared by some of the Members of that Committee, he had no doubt the House
 306 Mr. Sheil said, in 1826, "We," the Catholic Association, an illegal body, "shall be masters of the representation of Ireland. We have already driven the faction out of their strong holds; and, improving upon our success—having acquired a confidence in our resources—having learned what union and organization can effect—we shall not have a single Orange representative in Ireland. Look, for example, to Louth—in forty-eight hours' notice we beat the whole Protestant aristocracy to the ground. I am not given to boasting, but this I may venture to assert—that, however unconnected with the county, I could, without any considerable exertion—nay, almost with the movement of my finger—have thrown Mr. Leslie Foster out of the county. I forbore to make any vigorous exertions against him, in the hope that he may turn the lesson which he has received to good account; but if he does not—if he is determined to bid defiance to the people—if he is dead to all admonition—he never shall represent Louth again." Mr. O'Connell wrote a letter to Lord Duncannon on the 30th August, 1834, in which he said, speaking of the Orangemen, "Their souls are so hardened in guilt, and so accustomed to the avowed desire of practical cruelty, that they do not affect to conceal their wishes to render Ireland once more a desert, and to irrigate her plains with the blood of her inhabitants." And again, in his letter "To the People of Ireland," dated 20th September, 1834:—"The Orange faction are, in point of intellect and understanding, the most deplorably degraded that ever excited the contempt or scorn of mankind." …… "Then, as to their moral qualities, what are they? The preaching up of wholesale proscription, massacre, and extermination. They call themselves Christians. They preach up doctrines almost too bad for the eternal enemy of mankind to suggest to human depravity. Bayonets and blood—bayonets and blood—form their texts and commentary Their laymen vie with their parsons in ruthless atrocity; and it becomes doubtful which of the two are the more ready to preach rapine, murder, and desolation. The infernal spirit of religious persecution reigns over the whole, and renders the Irish Orangeists the most depraved, as well as the most despicable of the human race." 307
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  remarked that, after what had been said by the Chair, he would not question the regularity of this discussion, although he might be allowed to say that the course was not usual and that it afforded an opportunity of indirectly casting, not imputation, but disrespect, on the decision of a Committee. Whether that was or was not intended he did not know, but it seemed to him that nothing improper had been done. He had risen for the purpose of doing that which Mr. Villiers, had he now been a Member of that House, would have done as an act of duty, and which he had attended in his place yesterday to do had an opportunity been afforded. The hon.
 267
 Sir Robert Inglis  hoped, that the House would not, upon the bare statement of the hon. Gentleman who brought forward this Motion, agree to an Address of this nature. He did not intend to make this an occasion for going into the general question of the disabilities of Dissenters to enter the Universities, nor did he mean to say anything whatever that might be considered disrespectful to the Dissenting body. All he should deal with was, simply the Resolution before the House. He first objected to this Resolution, on the ground that it went to infringe the immediate prerogative of the Crown. [ "Oh," from Mr. Hume. 283
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, if the hon. Member was disposed to throw overboard what Henry Brougham or Lord Brougham had said, the time might come when what Mr. Tooke said might also be thrown overboard, as not binding this year any more than what Henry Brougham said six years ago. But it appeared that the present Motion applied for a Charter to grant degrees only in arts and in law. This, however, was merely an attempt to get the small end of the wedge in, when the rest was sure to follow in time. He objected, also, to the incorporation of this establishment, because it was calculated to interfere with a system of sound education in the metropolis. He felt convinced the result of granting such power, would be injurious to the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge. There was a petition presented from Oxford on the subject, in which it was stated that they would have no objection to the privilege of granting certain degrees. What they wanted was, that the degrees conferred by the London University, should not circulate as having equal authority with theirs. They might have equal value when the new University should become as distinguished for all the qualities that ought to belong to such institutions, as the old were. There was another consideration worthy of attention. He did not mean to impeach the solvency of individuals, when he said that property was one of the original elements of the London University. There were shares in it which were now as marketable as shares in any other speculation or business. Now, was a Joint-stock Company, that sort of body which ought, or could with
 284 285
 Mr. Williams Wynn  was anxious to impress on the House the great inconvenience of discussions of this nature. The question, however, was, did the evidence justify the decision of the Committee, and was it competent for the Committee to act on that evidence, leaving to the House to take any ulterior measure it thought proper? He thought the House could not interfere further, as the Question was one on which it was not the province of the House to decide. The only course the hon. Member could properly pursue was to ask for leave to bring in a Bill to restrict the powers of Committees. Such a course had been pursued before. He thought it injurious to interfere wantonly with the powers of Committees.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  spoke to older: The House had no power in this mode to re-consider the decision of au Election Committee.—He would not enter into the question whether the Report was right or wrong, because the House had no authority of the kind.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  contended that it was perfectly competent to the House to grant the request contained in the petition. He was certainly still of opinion, that in order to guard against any possibility of fraudulent practices, the House was bound to hold parties to the strict letter of the law, and not give facilities to alterations of this description, unless in cases where the substitution of one name for another was purely accidental, and that the correction of the mistake could not be construed into any violation of the law. In the last case before the House (the Leicester petition) they had determined that one name might be changed for another, though it was impossible to grant an extension of time equal to the number of days which was allowed upon the first application, in order to enable the sitting Member to inquire into the legal securities. In the present instance it was proposed to change the name of William for that of Henry, and this alteration could be made in unison with the provisions of the Act of Parliament, so as to allow the usual number of days which were granted to afford the sitting Member an opportunity of inquiring whether the securities offered were or were not sufficient. He could not suppose, therefore, that hon. Members, under the circumstances of the case, and after the decision to which they had come in the former instance, could without exposing themselves to the charge of acting entirely from party motives, and thus holding themselves up to the public in a light which he would not attempt to describe, refuse the request contained in the petition which had been presented by the hon. Member for the University of Dublin.
 Lord Sandon  thought that the hon. Member who had just sat down was not exactly the sort of Gentleman who was entitled to read the House a lecture upon equity and consistency. The reason why he (Lord Sandon) had objected to an equitable view of the former case was, that the House had only had the option of inflicting a hardship upon one side or the other, and it had therefore given its decision in favour of the party that had done nothing for which he ought to suffer; but the present case was exactly the reverse, and the House was at perfect liberty to follow the dictates of equity, and in so doing he should act with perfect consistency with his conduct on the previous division. He could only observe that, according to the doctrines of many hon. Members opposite, when equity was on the Ministerial side of the House then equity meant one thing, and when it was in favour of the Opposition Benches then did it mean another. Acting on the principle of equity, and with a view to do justice to both parties, he should feel no difficulty in acceding to the Motion of his right hon. and learned Friend. If hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House had been determined to infringe an Act of Parliament for the sake of equity they ought to pursue the principles of equity now that no law was to be broken by so doing.
 Dr. Bowring  rose to present a Petition, signed by 3,000 inhabitants of the borough of Blackburn, complaining of practices that had taken place at the election for that borough. He had given notice of his intention to present this petition, that the Members for Blackburn, particularly the hon. Member on the Bench above him (Mr. Turner), might be in their places. If the effect of this petition should be to deliver the town of Blackburn from the oppression and the abominations which had been practised there at the last election, he should be in the highest degree gratified. Much did he owe to a large portion of the constituency and to the inhabitants of that town, for the kind and generous affection which, on many occasions, had been exhibited towards him, which had led him through two severely contested elections without the outlay of a single shilling; and which claimed from him every effort to prevent the influx of a deluge of corruption, and the iron-handed despotism of oppressive power. If he could rescue them from such evils, he should make them some not inadequate return for their unbought, unbribed devotion to the cause of Reform. At all events, he would say, that if such practices were to be allowed there, and elsewhere, as had accompanied the two elections, the elective franchise, instead of being a boon and a blessing to the new boroughs erected under the Reform Bill, would be a curse and a calamity. When the hon. Member first appeared, how was his advent welcomed—how, but by the
 310 311 Laughter. 312
 Mr. Turner  said, that it now appeared that there was no allegation in it either against his hon. colleague or himself. If the hon. Member had let him know beforehand the contents of the petition, he should have been prepared to rebut every allegation contained in it; and if it were referred to a proper tribunal by that House, he should be ready to meet it. He thought that the hon. Member and his Friends would not come out of such an inquiry so immaculate as he would have the House believe they were. He was not himself present at Blackburn, until the day of nomination; and he had not canvassed a voter. With regard to the tenant alluded to by the hon. Member, he had not in fact asked him for his vote. That tenant wrote a note afterwards to him (Mr. Turner), stating that he had voted for the hon. Member (Dr. Bowring), because he was the losing candidate, and that he would have voted for him (Mr. Turner), if he had been in the same situation. That was the man he was said to have intimidated. He was sorry to trouble the House with these remarks; but he thought he was justified in making them after the manner in which the hon. Member had thought proper to allude to him.
 Mr. William Fielden  said, that this was rather a remarkable charge to prefer, the real fact being, that while the allegation, as far as the Friends and supporters of his hon. colleague and himself were concerned, was entirely unfounded, it applied most fully to the conduct of the
 313 "Quis tulerit Gracchos de seditione querentes?"
 Lord John Russell  said, that the right hon. Baronet, the Chancellor of the Exchequer having asked him the other day as to whether he would give him an outline of the Motion which he (Lord John Russell) meant to make on Monday next, the answer which he would then make was, that he was not prepared to pledge himself to any particular words, or not to vary the terms in which he declared his intention to move; but his present intention was, to move that the House should resolve itself into a Committee, for the purpose of taking into consideration the expediency of applying any of the surplus revenues of the Church of Ireland not required for the spiritual care of the Members of that Church, to the religious and moral instruction of all classes of the community.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : May I ask the noble Lord, supposing the House should accede to his proposition, will he be prepared to produce a practical plan by which he will make that appropriation?
 Lord John Russell : I do not feel myself bound to answer the question of the right hon. Baronet. When the House shall have resolved itself into a Committee
 314
 Colonel Evans  said, he had noticed some intelligence published in the newspapers from Moldavia and Wallachia, and he therefore wished to ask whether Ministers had any information from that quarter. There was reason to believe that within a recent period an important correspondence had taken place connected with the relations between Turkey and Russia, and the interference of the latter with the affairs of the former, especially as regarded the two principalities he had named. It was also apprehended that the British trade had diminished in the Black Sea, in consequence of regulations adopted by Russia. He had seen some notices on this subject in the public prints, where, however, conclusions were drawn in which he did not concur. He wished to know whether Ministers had any objection to lay copies of such documents upon the table as particularly related to the nationality of Moldavia and Wallachia, granted by the treaty of Adrianople? He was also anxious to see any correspondence between this country and Turkey with reference to the designs of Russia. It was the more important that Parliament should have the earliest intelligence upon such subjects, in consequence of the peculiar situation of the present Government as regarded the House of Commons.
 Sir Charles D'Albiac  rose to order. He submitted that the hon. Member was not justified on a Motion respecting the Army Estimates, in going into an examination of the Ordnance Estimates.
 Colonel Evans  said, that when the number of the police force and marines was taken into consideration, there were more men by 20,000 maintained now, than were required for several years after the peace. The right hon. Gentlemen(Mr. Herries) was bound to give some explanation to show that so large a force was necessary, before the House could consent to allow such a number as that proposed to be voted. He should have felt compelled, by the dictates of his judgment, and in accordance with his duty as a representative, to sanction an amendment calling for a large reduction in the army; but when that moved by the hon. Member for East Surrey, only required a diminution of 6,000 men upon the number proposed to be voted, he (Colonel Evans) could not, for an instant, hesitate to give that proposition his cordial support. He trusted that all those hon. Members who wished to deprive the Government of the means of perpetuating a bad system, would vote for the amendment.
 Lord John Russell  rose and said, he was ready to vote for the Motion of the hon. Gentleman, so far as its object was to appoint a Select Committee to consider the expediency of consolidating the civil departments of the Army and the Ordnance. Many Members of the late Government having taken into consideration that question, thought it most advisable to adopt a more efficient control over the military expenditure; and they were also of opinion that it would never be effectually done till one person was charged with the responsibility. The Members of the late Government being of that opinion, a commission was appointed by his Majesty, of which his hon. Friend, the Member for Coventry was one, himself was another, and the Duke of Richmond was a third, who took a leading part. The Commissioners instituted inquiries with regard to the practicability of the different plans suggested. There were many objections and many recommendations started, all of which were duly considered; and as far as the evidence went, he must say, the opinion he had entertained was not shaken, that it would be far better that there were one officer, whether the Secretary of the War Department, or the Secretary of State, or a President of the Army Board, who should be able to come down to the
 329 330
 Lord Stanley  concurred in almost every thing that had fallen from his noble Friend and would join him in expressing a hope that the hon. Member for Middlesex would withdraw his Motion. He differed with his noble Friend on one point only, viz. the course he should pursue this evening would not be directed by the course which might be taken by the noble Lord. If the hon. Member for Middlesex persisted in his Motion, he should consider it his duty to divide against him, but if he postponed it, and brought it forward hereafter, in the form of a substantive Motion, and did not bring it forward as a Motion for stopping the Supplies, or preventing the passing of the Mutiny Bill, then he should be ready to consider that it was a Question well worthy the consideration of the House, and, also, that great and extensive reductions might be made, not only without injuring, but with benefit to the interests of the country. He regretted that the Commission had not brought its inquiries to an end before the close of last Session, because he felt that this was a Question that it was much better to leave in the hands of the Executive, aided by a Commission, than to refer to the investigation of the House. He was, therefore, glad to learn that the Government prepared to follow up the inquiries instituted last Session, with a view to realizing the objects contemplated by the late Government, if it were found practicable, viz. the consolidation of the various civil Departments of the Army and the Ordnance. He was glad the Government were prepared to act upon that view; but if it should turn out that they were not, and the hon. Member for Middlesex, on another occasion, thought fit to move that a Select Com-
 331
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he thought that the House upon all similar occasions to the present, had always been in the habit, whatever might have been the feeling of hon. Members, and however strong their objections to the political principles of the Government, disposed to show that consideration which was due to the circumstances under which a Government was called upon to administer the affairs of the public. And when the House recollected that the present Government undertook the functions of the Administration in December last, that they then found many questions remaining unsettled; the English Tithe Question was unsettled; the Irish Tithe Question was unsettled; the Dissenters' Marriage Question was unsettled; the state of Canada was unsettled—he might say, untouched—the Ministers having on all those questions to form a deliberate judgment, the House would not be surprised if there should be some matters which they had not taken into consideration. The Ministers had applied themselves to the serious consideration of those matters which had appeared to them to be the most pressing, and it would be for the House to say, whether they approved of the measures or not which were the result of the deliberation of the Ministers. He was sure they could not fairly say, that Government had been remiss in submitting measures to Parliament. The noble Lord had, in effect, said it was the fault of Government having dissolved Parliament, that the business of the country had not been proceeded with; this he totally dissented from. He would ask whether, on the days that were appro-
 332 333 334 335 336 prima facie Lord John Russell. 337 338
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed in reference to the promise of which the hon. Member had spoken, that he had merely said he would read with the greatest attention the Report of the Committee of that House, and the evidence given before it, and that he would afterwards with the least possible delay inform the hon. Gentleman of the course which his Majesty's Government intended to pursue—whether they thought that no disturbance of the present system should take place, or whether they were willing
 344
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn  had just read the Motion which had been put into his hands. There must have been a good deal of correspondence between the Poor-Law Commissioners and different parts of the country, and it would not be to the public advantage to have that laid before the House. As the Motion called for all the correspondence of that body, there must be much stronger arguments adduced than any he had heard, to induce him to consent to it.
 Mr. Hindley  supported the Motion. The issuing of the circular by the Central Board of Poor-Law Commissioners, went to create an impression that a systematic attempt was making to draft the unemployed labourers from the agricultural parishes into the manufacturing districts, on the ground of there being an actual deficiency of labour in the latter. Before, the Central Board had resorted to such a measure, they should have ascertained whether such deficiency of hands really existed; and, if they had consulted the volume which lay on the Table of the House, (the Report of the Select Committee on the Petitions of the Hand-loom Weavers) they would have found that in the Borough of Bolton, to which some of the agricultural paupers had already been sent, there were not less than 24,000 individuals entirely dependant upon hand-loom weaving for their support, and who were represented to be in a state of considerable distress. The same document showed that in other districts in Lancashire there were large numbers of this distressed body of operatives, whose labour could only be rendered productive by its being engrossed in the power-loom manufactures. The facts elicited by this Report, therefore, established a  primâ facie 359
 Colonel Conolly  said, that of all the extravagant assertions which he had ever heard, one of the most extravagant was that which the hon. Gentleman had made—that a standing army was kept up in Ireland to sustain a number of tithe-proctors, when he knew that in the course of last week his Majesty's Government had declared their intention of abolishing tithes and composition for tithes. The hon. Gentleman was, he believed, present on that occasion; and how, with the knowledge of that fact, he could suppose that the people of England, to whom he seemed to appeal, could swallow a statement so totally destitute of foundation—so utterly at variance with the fact, he was at a loss to imagine.
 Colonel Chatterton  was convinced, that no reduction beyond that which was effected by the late Government could be safely made in the number of men belonging to the cavalry regiments.
 General Sharpe  contended, that if we intended to keep up our present dominion, we must keep up our present force, or do that which he supposed the hon. Member for Middlesex would not be willing to consent to—namely, to make a great increase in the "dead weight;" for if they reduced the army by a large number, they must increase the amount of half-pay and superannuation allowances for those men disbanded. Having as great a desire to reduce the expenses of the country, as his hon. and gallant Friend, the Member for Westminster, he would still object to the reduction of a single man of our military force, unless there was to be a reduction in the extent of our colonies. Looking at the whole of the case, he did not think he should act honestly if he did not oppose the amendment.
 Lord Albert Conyngham  said, I must beg to call the attention of the House to this item, which I think ought to be satisfactorily explained to us. On referring to the Army Estimates laid before the House, it will be found that the sums expended on each of the two regiments of Life Guards exceeded that appropriated to the regiment of Horse Guards by 3,451  l. s. d., d. l. s. 357 l. s. l. l. l. s. l. s. d.
 Major Beauclerk  said, he should certainly move a reduction in the proposed vote, as he should also have done if the Whig Administration had been in office. He believed that the settlement of the Irish Church Question would leave a large amount of troops at our disposal; for there was now a much larger number employed in Ireland than could be necessary. When he bore in mind the large addition which had been made to the police in Ireland,
 348
 Mr. Charles Buller  could never be induced to take the opinion of a military man with respect to the limit to which reduction might be carried. He was of opinion that there was too large a number of troops kept up in Ireland and in the colonies; and he trusted, that, as it was, he believed, the opinion of the majority of the House, that a reduction in our land forces should take place, the majority on that occasion would be composed, not merely of those strenuous advocates of economy, who sat upon his (Mr. Buller's) side of the House, but that there should
 350
 Mr. Ellice  said, that nothing could be more reasonable than the right hon. Baronet's proposition, and upon the understanding that he would turn his attention to the subject with the view of considering whether, consistently with his public duty, a Committee of Inquiry, or a Commission should be appointed on the subject, he was not disposed to press him further on the present occasion, and would recommend the hon. Member for Middlesex to withdraw his Motion. But in the former part of the right hon. Baronet's speech, certain matters were introduced, which really had very little reference to the proposition with which he concluded; and it was impossible for those who were connected with the late Government, or with the late Parliament, to hear those taunts without telling the right hon. Baronet, in the face of the country, that his situation was one of his own choosing, and for which he was responsible, If the
 339 340 Herries: Laughter. 341 342
 Mr. Finch  begged to ask the noble Lord whether, by "religious instruction," he meant to include the religious instruction of the Roman Catholics of Ireland in the principles of the Roman Catholic religion?
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, Gentlemen on the other side were Englishmen contending for the power of their country: he was an Irishman, contending for the liberties of his country. If they went to the history of Ireland, they would find that, at the very time when they were afraid of doing what they did now, they had only 4,000 men in Ireland. In Lord Townshend's governvernment in 1782,4,000 men had been found sufficient to bear alone the whole burden of the management of Ireland—so that they reduced the army to 4,000. And in 1792, it was one of the charges brought against the Duke of Portland, that he had left Ireland with 4,000 men. And why could not they govern Ireland with 4,000 men now? [ "Oh! Oh." 355 s. d. s. l. l.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, that it was by no means either prudent or desirable, that the mortality or the sickness which occurred in the colonies amongst the military forces should be exposed to the public eye; and for that reason he supposed the returns now asked for had never yet been granted. The King's service must be performed, and the publication of such a document might render it a matter of much greater difficulty than it now was, to get men to serve in the colonies, unless the rate of pay was increased in proportion to the danger of the service—a mode of ob-
 352
 Mr. Warburton  said, that there was one species of information necessary to be obtained from the Government before the House could form any exact judgment upon the question of the amount of colonial force really required to be kept up. He therefore would ask the right hon. Secretary opposite, whether, if he were to move for an annual list of the number of persons who had died, or who had been put upon the invalid establishment from the colonial service during the last four years, the right hon. Secretary was prepared to furnish the return, for from that document a fair average per centage might be drawn of the number of casualties in the colonial service, and it might be ascertained whether the duties of the military there had, as was alleged, really increased of late years. This was the real method of trying the arguments urged for the maintenance of the present amount of the force, and he would be contented to abide by it; but often as these returns had been asked for, they had never yet been granted.
 The Speaker  observed, that as he understood the hon. Member rose to move, as an Amendment to the Motion for a Committee of Supply, that the Ordnance and Army Estimates should be referred to a Select Committee, it appeared to him, that the hon. Member was not out of order.
 Mr. Herries , in moving the Order of the Day for the House resolving itself into a Committee of Supply, said he felt it incumbent on him, in the discharge of his duty with reference to the probable proceedings of that night, that he should briefly explain the circumstances under which it appeared to him quite necessary for the interests of the public service, that no delay should be proposed with regard to the Army Estimates. He presumed to make this statement from the fact of the two Motions standing for that day having immediate reference to this question—both, too, being calculated necessarily to postpone the consideration of the Estimates for the army. The first of these Motions to which he would allude, was that of the hon. Member for Middlesex, who proposed by it, that instead of bringing forward the discussion of the Estimates, they should at once be referred to a Select Committee up stairs, with reference to certain ulterior objects. The second Motion was that of the hon. Member for St. Alban's, which was more explicit and positive, for it proposed the postponement of the Army Estimates for the present; until, indeed, the House should have come to a decision upon the intended Motion of Lord John Russell respecting the Church in Ireland, on Monday next. He thought it right in moving the Order of the Day, as a preliminary step, to state to the House that their position in regard to the speedy termination of the financial year, and the expiration of the Mutiny Bill, rendered it a matter of the greatest importance that embarrassments in this particular should not be created. There were, as the House well knew, other matters pending their decision. Now, if the opportunity afforded that night were overlooked, there was every probability of a discussion on Monday next (for as they had been recently informed, a subject of the greatest importance would on that night be brought forward), when it could not be expected that the Army Estimates would be allowed to go on. So that between that and Friday next, no opportunity would present itself for proceeding with these Estimates. The financial year expired on the 31st, and if the Act were strictly adhered to, as it was intended to be when the new system was introduced—it would be impossible to carry on the public service with the present means,
 316
 Mr. Herries  said, that as he considered that all the observations of the hon. Gentlemen opposite had been so well answered already by those who had preceded him, he hoped the House would permit him without further delay, to proceed with that portion of the public business which it was his duty to bring before it. He should not follow the right hon. Gentleman who had last spoken through all the topics in which he had indulged, nor should he attempt to equal the warmth which that right hon. Gentleman had displayed in any vindication of his Majesty's Ministers from the crimination in which the right hon. Gentleman had endeavoured to involve them, but would at once proceed to prosecute the business before the House. Towards the close of the right hon. Gentleman's observations, he had adopted a cooler and a better course, and in that course alone he (Mr. Herries) was disposed to follow him. He should only advert to one charge that had been made against himself individually by the right hon. Gentleman. He meant that of having last year interrupted the Ordnance Estimates by some Motion about timber. He could assure his right hon. Friend, if he would allow him so to call him, that he never was guilty of that interruption, He certainly
 343
 Mr. Herries  rose to move the first vote on the Army Estimates, before which he wished to make a few observations. The Committee, he presumed, must be perfectly aware that owing to the peculiar circumstances under which the present Government came into office, and owing to the recency of the period at which their access took place, there was not time for them to enter upon any revision of the estimates. It was his full conviction that even as the estimates stood, they were as much reduced as they could be, due regard being had to the interests of the public service; but still he begged it to be understood that the estimates were those of the last rather than of the present Government. He made this observation, however, without any wish to divest himself of the responsibility
 345 346
 Mr. Herries  said, that the right hon. Member for Dundee should have favoured the House with the grounds which had induced him, when in office, to form the opinion that a very large reduction of the forces was practicable. He had not stated those grounds, and other right hon. Gentlemen who had possessed the same opportunities as himself of inquiring into the subject, had not been able to arrive at the same conclusion. The right hon. Gentlemen who succeeded him as Secretary of War, were surely not less anxious to make every possible reduction in the expenses of the public service, and yet neither the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir J. C. Hobhouse), nor the right hon. Member for Coventry (Mr. Ellice) had ever introduced any proposition of the kind. The only reason (if such it could be called) which had been put forward by the right hon. Member for Dundee, was, that some years ago, the amount of forces was less than at present. Now he would go back as far as 1818, and then he found that the number of men was 94,847, being fourteen thousand more than the vote for the ensuing year. In 1819, the number was 92,000, and in 1820, 92,224. In 1821, it was reduced to 81,000. In the subsequent years 1823, 1824, and 1825, the amount was considerably reduced. If these were the years to which the right hon. Member for Dundee referred as a standard for trying what proportion of numbers should he voted, he would beg
 354 minimum
 Mr. Hume  asked, why it was, that a much larger military force should be kept up at present than had been considered necessary for several years. Why should we have 5,000 men more in our colonies now, than we had for many years since the peace? Were not some of the colonies overlaid with troops? What was the use of 2,500 men in Nova Scotia, which was perfectly quiet? Why, even in Canada a force was kept up, exceeding in number the whole of the troops maintained by the United States along the full extent of their frontier, on which they had for enemies the native tribes of America; whilst in Canada there were no enemies to look after, or to keep in awe, but only British subjects, who would be well affected, if they were but well treated. Why not call upon the fourteen regiments of cavalry to serve occasionally abroad? Including seamen, marines, artillery, cavalry, and infantry, the country would be burthened with the support of not less than 150,000 men. He would support the amendment of his hon. Friend, though he himself should be disposed to go much farther. One objection to that amendment would not have been made, if hon. Members had voted for the reduction of the malt-tax. If that reduction in taxation to the amount of 5,000,000 l. 353
 Mr. Hume  thought that one-half of this grant might be saved; but would content himself for the present, by moving a reduction of 11,989 l. l., l.
 Mr. Hume  said, he would not allow anything that had fallen from the right hon. Baronet opposite to influence him in the course which he intended to take. He hoped he should see the day when every one of the public estimates would undergo the most minute investigation elsewhere before they were submitted to that House. As some of his friends, however, had expressed an opinion adverse to his pressing the present question to a division on this occasion, he acknowledged that he felt bound to give up or rather to postpone the step which at first he had contemplated taking, at the same time that he had not in the least altered his opinion as to the expediency of referring the Estimates to a Committee, and at the proper time he should again submit a Motion to the House having that object in view—probably that day week he might bring the matter under the consideration of the House. He hoped therefore, that the right hon. Baronet would not oppose his bringing it forward as a substantive question on that day week, or on some other early day.
 Mr. Hume  was aware that every Motion for a Supply might to a certain degree bean impediment to the business of the Ministers, and ever since he had been a Member of the House he had found the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the heads of the different departments very anxious to obtain the Supplies as soon as possible. It, however, became the Representatives of the people not to place the public money at the disposal of the Ministers of the day without due discussion and strict attention to economy. The right hon. Gentleman had stated, almost by way of threat, that if the Supplies were not voted to night, the public service must stop; but, according to his own showing, the Mutiny Bill would not expire until the 25th of April, leaving a whole month for the removal of temporary impediments. He begged to state that there were some votes on which it was extremely difficult for a Select Committee to decide: he alluded principally to the question of the numerical force of the army employed at home and abroad. It appeared from evidence taken up stairs that the point was always settled by the King in Council on the suggestion and recommendation of the Minister for the Colonies; it was brought forward, therefore, on the responsibility of Ministers, and belonged more peculiarly to a Committee of the whole House, than to a Select Committee. It was a prerogative exercised by his Majesty, undoubtedly for the public good. But the question to which he had to direct attention was this—and he hoped the House would support him by its vote—whether, if it voted the supplies without inquiry, it was doing what it had pledged
 317 l. 318 l. l. l. 319 l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. 320 l. 321 322 323 l. 324 l. l. s. d. 325 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  was surprised that an officer of so much experience as the gallant General, should not see the object he(Mr. Hume) had in view, in the observations he had addressed to the House. He knew the gallant General entertained different opinions on the subject of the Army Establishment from his, and he was therefore anxious to show the gallant General how imperfect a view he took of the subject. He repeated, the money to be voted for the Ordnance service this year was 1,335,976 l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. 326 l., l., l., l. 327 l. l. seriatim, 328 l.
 Mr. Gillon  observed, that a reduction might be effected if the regiments of guards and cavalry were to go in rotation, to the colonies with the infantry regiments. He was of opinion, that in consequence of the increase in the police force of late years, a diminution in the numbers of those regiments, as well as of the troops stationed in Ireland and the colonies, might be safely effected.
 Sir Charles Dalbiac  declared his intention of supporting the present vote. He did not think that the present strength of the Army could be reduced without injury to the interests of the British empire. He protested against the question involved in the proposed vote being considered a military one. He would, however paradoxical it might appear, appeal to the hon. Members for the city of London, in the confident hope that they would admit this to be, not a military, but a commercial question. The question for the House to consider, in corning to any conclusion on the proposed vote, was, whether the polity, commerce, trade, and manufactures of the country were to be maintained in their present state; and whether it was expedient that we should continue to keep under the control of the Government our colonies and foreign dominions? Believing, as he did, that the number of the forces abroad was no greater than was absolutely necessary to preserve the colonies, and that the number of our troops at home was no more than was absolutely necessary for the protection of property, and the maintenance of the public peace, he was of opinion that any reduction would tend materially to injure the efficiency of the public service.
 Sir Henry Parnell  said, that the present question was only one of individual opinion. That of the present Secretary-at-War and the late Secretary-at-War might be in favour of this vote, but he had had opportunities of examining all the documents, and entertaining all the necessary considerations when he was Secretary-at-War, and he had come to the deliberate decision that so great a number of men was not necessary. He had found that 74,000 had sufficed—why then vote 7,000 more now? Had any circumstances arisen to make an increased number necessary? He would undertake to show before a Committee of the whole House, that no such circumstance had arisen. Since 1825 there had been a great increase of force in the country. In 1825, there was no police force in Ireland, there were now 27,000 armed troops, and 8,000 police. There were now 7,000 police in London. Therefore, he said, these were strong facts—facts that ought to carry great weight in the House of Commons—and he hoped that House would not go on voting away such a sum of money till they had some conviction that it was necessary. He was satisfied that there was a universal con-
 349
 Mr. Ward  said, he should not interfere with the present vote, and he should state frankly the grounds upon which his opposition to the estimates was founded, grounds quite apart from anything like a feeling of factious opposition, at the same time that in reference to the question of the amount of the army he did entertain a strong feeling, and he believed that if a different system were adopted with regard to Ireland, we might dispense with a considerable portion of our military force. Believing, then, that such a change of system as he contemplated would render the present numerical strength of the army not necessary, he would give no Government the means of supporting by military force that system, their disapprobation of which he trusted the House of Commons would deliberately place upon record. Though determined to oppose the estimates on the bringing up of the Report, he should not for the present further interfere.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  said, he should be extremely sorry if there were to be no objections to such a vote made by some hon. Members at this side of the House. Not one of the objections which he entertained to the vote was in the least obviated; for, in his opinion, much of what the right hon. Gentleman opposite had said, afforded arguments in favour of reduction rather than in support of the present large amount at which it was intended to maintain a standing army. He felt bound, therefore, to get up for the purpose of entering his solemn protest against the maintenance of a standing army of 81,000 men in time of peace, and he did this the more earnestly when he recollected that one-fourth of that force was employed, not for the purpose of garrisoning our colonies, or protecting
 347 Cries of "Oh! oh! oh!"
 Lord Mahon  complained that, according to the notice given to him of the hon. and gallant Member's intention to put a specific question, he had not supposed that he would have made so extended an inquiry. He hoped at present to be allowed to defer his answer, in order that he might take into consideration how far it was consistent with his duty to communicate to the House the information required. He would only add, that the whole of our relations with Russia was the subject of a projected Motion by an hon. Member, and perhaps he might postpone until then any farther explanation.
 Lord John Russell : I rise fully sensible of the arduous task I have undertaken; but although I am well aware both of the difficulty of that task, and of the responsibility I incur, yet the confidence I feel in the nature of the question I am to bring forward diminishes much of my anxiety, because I cannot but think that the clearness of the proposition I shall submit will compensate for any obscurity in the arguments I may use to enforce it. I am confident that the truth and justice of the cause will prevail though the weakness and incompetence of the advocate should be manifest. With no further preface, therefore, I shall enter upon the consideration of the subject of the Church of Ireland; and in doing so let me advert, in the first instance, to a Motion made on the 22nd of April in the last year. The hon. Member for the City of Dublin, then introduced a Motion for a Committee to inquire into the means by which the Union with Ireland had been effected, and as to the expediency of continuing it. The hon. Member was met by an Amendment in the form of an address to the Crown, which was carried by a large majority, and in the minority appeared only one Member for England, and no Member for Scotland. The answer to the
 362 363 364 365 366 367 368 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. maximum. l. l. l. l. l. l. 
 
 "Tithe Composition £534,433 
 Episcopal revenues exclusive of Tithes 141,898 
 Deans and Chapters and Economy Estates 5,399 
 Minor Canons and Vicars Choral 5,183 
 Dignitaries Prebendaries, and Canons 6,560 
 Glebe Lands 68,250 at 15s. 
 Perpetuity Purchase Fund 30,000 
 Total £791,721" l. 369 370 
 
 Dioceses. Members of Established Church. Roman Catholics. Presbyterians. Other Protestant Dissenters. Total. 
 Ardfert 7,529 297,131 27 304,687 
 Down 30,583 61,465 101,627 3,557 197,232 
 Dromore 35,677 53,516 59,385 818 154,409 
 Kildare 13,986 122.577 9 334 136,956 
 Kilfenora 235 34,606 4 34,845 
 Killaloe 19,149 359,585 6 326 379,076 
 Leighlin, 20,404 170,083 198 281 190.966 
 Lismore 8,002 207,688 164 382 216,236 
 Meath 25,626 377,430 671 199 403,926 
 Waterford 5,301 43,371 110 443 49,225 
 166,492 1,732,452 162,184 6,430 2,067,558 371 
 
 Parishes. Value. Estab. Ch. R.Catholic. 
 £ £ 
 Taghmon 446 Glebe 50 133 2920 
 Ballycormick 95 10 501 
 Ballynilty 82 21 390 
 Dunleer 153 G. 6 159 1460 
 Drumcar 53 120 1528 
 Monachebone 107 9 737 
 Moyleary 173 G. 30 13 1148 
 Cuppog 120 1 530 
 Rathdrummin 82 G. 20 7 662 
 Carrickbogget 57 — 332 
 Port 142 G. 5 5 800 
 Ullard 280 G. 45 50 2213 
 Graig 440 63 4779 
 Ossory 62 4 107 
 Balsoon 69 7 313 l. 372 373 374 375 376 377 378 379 "Though I had not the pleasure of receiving your very informing discourse on Sunday-schools, at the time you intended, I have since got it, and read it with the greatest satisfaction. It is an admirable defence and recommendation of this new Institution, which I hope will daily become more general, and produce the best moral effects, by impressing the children of the poor with a sense of duty and religion, at the only time and age when they are capable of impressions. A poor man's creed need not be long, but it should be struck in early, and a true and right one. If he believes, as the common proverb says, that he is to die like a dog, he will undoubtedly live like one. The communication of education, is certainly a very great blessing to the poor; and had Mandeville, and they who, to serve political purposes, are for denying all instruction to the lower classes, only pushed their argument far enough, they might have proved that they had a right to maim, or put out the eyes of the common people, in order to make them more manageable, and more in the power of their superiors. Having never seen the paragraph in the English papers concerning me, to which you allude in your appendix, I can say nothing to it; but what I have endeavoured to do in my diocese, ever since my appointment, is this—there are twenty Catholics to one Protestant in it. To attempt their conversion, or to think of making them read Protestant books, would be in vain. I have, therefore, circulated amongst them some of the best of their own authors, particularly one Gother, whose writings contain much pure Christianity, useful knowledge, and benevolent sentiments. He wrote eighteen volumes of religious extracts, and died about the year 1696. Unable to make the peasants about me good Protestants, I wish to make them good Catholics, good
 380 381 —"great Serbonian Bog, Betwixt Damiata and Mount Casius old, Where armies whole have sunk." 382 383 d., d., d. 384
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  would not presume to occupy the time of the House in apologizing for the liberty he took in addressing them on a subject which was so important in itself, and in which he felt so deeply interested. If the noble Lord felt something like awe and diffidence, he at least participated as largely, if not more so, in those feelings, on approaching a subject of such paramount interest; but he would at once come to the proposition which the noble Lord had propounded, and state to him and to the House, the reasons why he could not accede to the Motion, and the course which he intended to take in opposition to it. He could not but
 385 386 387 388 "No, no," 389 Ward: 390 391 392 393
 Mr. Ward  said, that he should not follow the example of the right hon. Baronet, who had just addressed the House, by converting one of the greatest—if not the greatest considering all the varied and complicated interests which it involved—of all the questions which could possibly come under the consideration of the Legislature into a tissue of mere petty personalities. It was with feelings of deep concern, that he had used an expression which might be offensive to the right hon. Baronet; but really, when he saw a Minister of the Crown rising in that House at the commencement of such a discussion as the present—a discussion which he himself stated to involve a vital question, and yet not touching upon that question—negativing at once a proposition, but negativing it without discussing it—giving them a sort of manifesto in favour of his Majesty's present Government—talking to them of the Dissenters' Marriage Bill—of the Irish Tithe Bill—(of the Church Reform Bill;—of which he (Mr. Ward) believed, that
 394 395 396 397 in limine, 398 399 400 Edinburgh Review, 401 402 l. l. l. l. 403 404 405 l. s. 406 ultima, prima, iota ratio, 407 408 Laughter. 409 410 411 "The opinions he had heretofore expressed on the Catholic Question, he still retained; but he must say, that looking to the position of the Government of the country—looking to the position of the Legislature—looking to the disunion which had prevailed on this subject in his Majesty's Councils—looking to the disunion which for several years had marked the proceedings of the two branches of the Legislature—and looking to the effect which all these causes had produced upon Ireland—he must say that there appeared to him to be sufficient reasons to accept of almost any alternative, rather than endure their continuance." * "That things could not, and ought not, to remain as they were;" "that no Government could be formed on the principle of permanent resistance;" "That there was not the least chance that such a Government could carry through Parliament those measures, which a rigid adherence to the principle would render necessary;" and that, "if permanent resistance to concession were impossible, there only remained one alternative, namely, a consideration of this important question, with a view to effect such a settlement of it as should be satisfactory to all parties."† * †Ibid. p. 79. 412 "And that the doctrine, worship, discipline, and government of the said United Church, shall be preserved as now by law established for the Church of England; saving to the Church of Ireland all the rights, privileges, and jurisdictions now thereunto belonging." "The prosperity of the Church of Ireland never can be permanent, unless it be part of the Union to leave, as a guard, a power to the United Parliament to make some provision in this respect beyond any act of their own which can now be agreed upon." * "To leave Parliament an opportunity of considering what may be fit to be done for his Majesty's Catholic subjects, without seeking at present any rule to govern the Protestant Establishment, or making any provision upon that subject."† * †Ibid, p. 196. 413 animus pari passu Cries of "No, no!" 414 l. l. l. l. l. 415 416 video meliora proboque deteriora sequor, 417 418 419
 Sir James Graham , spoke as follows:—I rise with great reluctance to address you on the present occasion, for though I have thought long, and deeply, and anxiously, on this subject, I have never before expressed ray opinions on it within the walls of Parliament; and I now feel a peculiar difficulty in discussing the question; for I must frankly avow, that it is connected with religious feelings and conscientious scruples, which, though they are binding on the individual's judgment, are not fit subjects for discussion in a popular assembly. I have never attempted, however, to address any portion of my fellow-countrymen, honestly and fearlessly expressing my opinions, without experiencing an extension of their indulgence, and I therefore feel a full confidence of obtaining a patient hearing, when I ask a British House of Commons to grant me its attention, while I state in as brief a compass as I can, the opinions which I entertain on the question now brought before us. Cheers with laughter 420 421 422 423 "No, no." 424 l. l. l. l. l. 425 "Hear, hear!" and Laughter. 426 Cries of "Oh, oh," from Mr. Cobbett. 427 l. meum et tuum l. l. l. 428 l. 429 430 431 "nec quicquid tantâ pro spe tentare recusem." 432 "Do you think, in case the general question
 433 "I am convinced it would not be in the power of any individual, no matter how great his influence might be—no matter how perverse his ambition might be—to draw large convocations of men together in Ireland; nothing but the sense of individual injury produces these great and systematic gatherings through the medium of which so much inflammatory matter is conveyed through the country." "Let me take the question of the Union for example. There are many who suppose, that if the Catholic Question were arranged, the merits of the Union would be discussed. But, I am convinced, that if the Catholic Question were settled, a great body of the population, so far from being dissatisfied, would be perfectly contented with the Union, or would be indifferent to it. Whenever any mention is made in a Roman Catholic assembly of the evils of that measure, it is made for the purpose of rhetorical excitement, and not with any serious view on the part of the speaker to disturb that which, in my humble judgment, is indissoluble." "In answer to the question, I beg to add this—that I am perfectly convinced, that neither upon tithes, nor the Union, nor any other political subject, could the people of Ireland be powerfully and permanently excited: at present, individuals feel themselves aggrieved by the law, and it is not so much from public sentiment, as from a sense of individual injustice, that they are marshalled and combined together." "Did he think, would the objection to tithe, as it now stood, be settled, if the Roman Catholics were admitted to an equality of civil rights?" "Yes. I do believe, that re-admission of the Roman Catholics to an equality of civil rights would greatly tend to the settlement of the objection to tithes, as they now stand." "I conceive, that the removal of Catholic
 434 "What would be the effect of a settlement of the Catholic claims as regarded the communication between the Protestant and Catholic clergy?" "We should meet them, if our claims were granted, as brethren labouring in the same vineyard as ourselves, with the common object of promoting the interest of our common country." "After all the evils that have been heaped upon this devoted land, there is some consolation in reflecting that the are has been laid to the root of the establishment. The pruners of the Ecclesiastical vineyard have not read the Roman history in vain; the loftiest of all plants have been already laid low. This, we may hope, is but the preliminary to a more enlarged process of pruning." 435 436 437 438 439 440
 Lord Howick  observed, that his right hon. Friend who had just sat down, had stated to the House, that in the view which he took of the question, he was actuated by a strong religious feeling. He could assure his right hon. Friend that he gave him the fullest credit for pure motives, and he hoped to receive credit for being himself actuated by no other motives, together with a strong desire to
 441 442 443 444 445 Cheers and Laughter. 446 447 448 449 450 451 452 453 454 455
 Mr. Lefroy  said, that the question was one which required the fullest information to come to a right decision on it, and he was prepared to contribute all in his power to that purpose. He had heard from hon. Members on the other side of the House statements in point of law, statements in point of practice, and statements in point of fact, which he considered he should be undeserving of the situation which he held in that House as the Representative of the enlightened body who had sent him there if he did not apply himself at once to their refutation. To do that, as well as to assert the impolicy and injustice of the principle contained in the Resolution of the Noble Lord, the Member for Devonshire, was his object in addressing the House, and he trusted that they would bear with him patiently for that reason. In the first instance he should apply him-
 479 480 Laughter on the Opposition side of the House. 481 482 l. l. l. l. l., l. 
 
 1st. Off the Bishops as per Parliamentary returns £21,216 
 Ditto for ten cancelled Bishopricks 50,773 
 2. Off Deans and Chapters, as per returns, their actual income, deducting repairs, being only 2,206 l. 14,936 
 3. The Tithes are subject to the deduction of one fourth, to be made by the pending bill 133,608 
 4. Perpetuity Fund, as being the interest of a fund produced by sale of fines, and consequently charged already in the Bishop's income 30,000 
 Total deduction to be made from income, as stated by Lord John Russell £250,533 
 Leaving a balance of 541,188 
 The real Income of the Church subject to the tax for vestry cess, varying from 2½ to 15 per cent. which will average at least 41,188 
 Giving the real net income 500,000 483 l. l. l. 484 485 486 487 488
 Colonel Damer :—Representing, as I do, an Irish constituency, I hope the House will pardon me if I venture to trespass on its time for a very few minutes; but it would have been impossible for me, on this occasion, to have given a silent vote, and I am, therefore, anxious to explain the reasons which have induced me to adopt the course I intend this evening to pursue. I have given to the proposition of the noble Lord opposite, the most attentive consideration, and if I am now disinclined to concur in it, it is not because I think it inexpedient to enter into a mature deliberation on that great question, but it is that at the present time, when we are in daily expectation of having the Report of the Commission appointed to inquire into the value and nature of the Ecclesiastical property in Ireland laid on the Table of this House—remembering, too, the argument of the noble Lord himself last year, that it was not adviseable to enter into any discussion on the subject before this Report was presented, the necessity for which the observations of the noble Lord last night
 498 l. l. 499
 The Solicitor General  assured the House that nothing but the importance of the subject under discussion, and the deep interest which he knew was entertained by the majority of his constituents, and which he believed was felt by the great body of the English people, could have induced him to alter his original determination, and to offer to the House a few observations—few they certainly should be—before he gave his vote upon the Question at issue. It was not his intention to follow the hon. Members either on his or the opposite side of the House in the details they had given in respect to the property of the Established Church in Ireland. Some observations on that point he had, indeed, purposed to make, but so ably had he been anti-
 521 522 523 524 525 526 527 528 529 Movement
 Mr. Charles Wood  said, that he thought that the answers which had been given on the previous night to the charge of factious motives urged by the hon. Gentlemen at the opposite side of the House against those with whom he was in the habit of acting, would have protected his hon. Friends from the imputation which had been cast upon their conduct by the right hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down. He could assure the right hon. and learned Gentleman that he was actuated by no factious motives in
 489 490 491 492 493 494 495 l. regium donum 496 497
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor , like the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, felt himself inspired with courage by the spirit of truth. When the hon. Gentleman complimented the speech of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Cumberland, the hon. Gentleman forgot or mistook the grounds upon which the right hon. Baronet objected to the Motion brought forward by the noble Lord the Member for Devonshire. The right hon. Baronet's objections were founded upon religious considerations, whilst those of the hon. Gentleman rested, as he himself admitted upon mere contingency. The hon. Gentleman said, that although he now opposed the Motion, yet if the time should ever arrive at which the majority of the population of the United Kingdom should become Catholics, he should be ready to bow to such a proposition as that brought forward by the noble Lord. The noble Lord (the member for Devonshire) had been taunted for bringing before the House a mere question of principle, without going more into detail. But the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, had gone into minute calculations, and had quoted extracts from the pamphlet of Mr. Senior, all of which tended to strengthen the proposition of the noble Lord. The noble Lord did not say that he would appropriate such or such sums; but, in the language of Mr. Senior, he said, "Wherever I find any sums improperly appropriated, I will step in to correct it." The hon. Member had said that there were 1,000 souls to every clergyman—[" No, No! from the Ministerial side 515 516 517 l. 518 pro tempore l., 519 520
 Mr. Warburton  contended, that sufficient notice of the present Motion had not been given—the votes of the day merely stating, that the petition which Mr. Jennings yesterday presented should be considered. He therefore moved the adjournment of the debate till Wednesday.
 Mr. Poulter  observed, that it was once considered true that everything greater included in itself that which was less; but
 503 504 res integra, de novo. pro tanto l. 505 506 "Nascenti cui tres animas Feronia mater, (Horrendum dictu) dederat: terna arma movenda; Ter leto sternendus erat: cui tune tamen omnes Abstulit hæc animas dextra, et totidem exuit armis." a ridiculo, 507
 Mr. Sheil  said, that last night he had risen with the noble Lord, the Member for Northumberland; and although the Speaker had called on him because the Member for Cumberland had distinctly adverted to him, yet he had given way to the noble Lord, because he felt the importance of the position which was occupied by the noble Lord who in that House, was the representative of the illustrious person whose talents and principles he had inherited. He (Mr. Sheil) felt great gratification at having receded, and having thus contributed essentially to the public good; for the noble Lord had set all doubt at rest as to the opinions entertained by the eminent statesman to whom he had referred, respecting the great question which was before the House, A notion
 467 468 l. 469 470 à fortiori meum tuum 471 472 bonâ fide 473 hoc genus omne, 474 475 alias 476 l. l., 477 478
 Mr. Gisborne  contended, that the agent for the sitting Members had no cause of complaint; for although it was not until
 466
 Mr. William Gladstone  wished, before the House proceeded to the adjourned debate upon the question of the Irish Church, to call its attention to the Petition which he had presented yesterday from Mr. Charles Jennings, agent for the sitting Members for the Borough of Leicester, praying that the order for considering the petition of James Hudson and others, against the return should be discharged. That petition set forth at length the grounds upon which the Motion he was about to submit to the House would be founded, and,
 463 464 465
 Mr. William Gladstone  said, that the hon. Gentleman, who had just concluded, although he had apprized the House that his speech was fraught with the latest acquisitions of modern civilization, in common with all other hon. Gentlemen and noble Lords who had spoken on the same side of the Question, had proceeded upon totally unproved assumptions. In all that they had said—in their statements, and in their reasonings, which he did not fear—and in their declamation, which did cause him apprehenssion—they had gone upon the gratuitous and unsustained supposition that there existed a surplus revenue over and above what was necessary for the due maintenance of the Church in Ireland—an assertion which was wholly unsupported by proof. He thought Church-property was as sacred as private property, but between private property and Church-property, he saw a difference. He should say, that the former were sacred in persons, and the latter to purposes. Did the Reformation violate the sacredness of Church property? That sacredness could not in all cases be strictly maintained; but it was always desirable to keep the property as sacred as circumstances would permit. Such was the case at the Reformation; but would such be the case if the Motion of the noble Lord opposite were carried? At the time of the Reformation, the Legislature, composed of the Representatives of the country, having changed the Established Religion, changed to the same extent the appropriation of Church property. If the Protestants should ever happen to be again in a minority in that House, he, for one, avowed his conviction that a return to the ancient appropriation would be the fair and legitimate consequence. Until that should be the case—until the Legislative Union should be dissolved—until the Representatives of the Catholics constituted the majority in that House—he, for one, should raise his humble voice as a Protestant against the principle involved in
 508 509 l. l. l. l. l. l. 510 l. beau ideal l. l. l. Oh! oh, from the Opposition l. l. l. l. 511 512 513 de facto, 514
 Sir John Hobhouse  said, I can assure the House that it is with great reluctance that I venture to trespass upon their attention on this occasion, and that I feel far from certain that I shall be able to do so with any adequate effect, after the very able speech of the hon. and learned Solicitor General. I cannot help congratulating the Government, and congratulating the House, upon his accession to office, I cannot help congratulating the House upon the speech they have just heard—a speech which shows that the hon. and learned gentleman to great forensic talents adds all that power which a man who aspires to eloquence and station ought to possess before he takes the very high degree which the hon. and learned Gentleman has attained. And, if I may be permitted to add one word, in this place, Sir, I must say, that the learned
 530 531 532 533 Oh, oh! 534 535 536 537 No, 538 from the Solicitor-General. 539
 Sir Robert Inglis  trusted, that the House would indulge him with a patient attention, while he endeavoured to express, as clearly as he was able, the views and sentiments which he entertained on this important question. He did not wish to disparage the value of the speech which had been delivered that night by the hon. Member for Halifax (Mr. C. Wood), but he looked upon that speech as more applicable to a Tithe Bill than to the subject of appropriation. The views stated by the hon. Member with respect to the Established Church of Ireland would apply with equal force and propriety to the whole empire. The principle laid down by the hon. Member was cheered by the Member for St. Alban's. But, after all, of what value could the principle be, if even so inconsiderable a sum as 100,000 l. 500 501 Wood: 502
 Sir George Clerk  said, that as he had presented many similar petitions on this subject, and as he had several others to present, he might take this opportunity to say a few words in reference to them. He believed that a very erroneous idea prevailed as to the extent to which it would be necessary to call on the Treasury for providing for the extension of the Church of Scotland. In proposing any plan on the subject the Government would be anxious to assist, not so much by affording aid in the building of Churches, as in providing permanent endowments where Churches had been already built. In several places in Scotland Churches had been erected for the accommodation of the people, but there was a great chance, that unless some security should be given for the permanent endowment of those Churches, the intentions of the pious individuals who had built those Churches would be frustrated. It was then proposed by Ministers, and such was the intimation in the Speech from the Throne, that wherever by the exertions of individuals additional churches or chapels of ease had been provided for the accommodation of the people, an endowment should be given in aid of them out of the funds of the State. It was obvious that as long as the support of the clergymen officiating in such churches or chapels of ease was left to depend on the rents of the seats, that support where the population was a poor one, must be extremely precarious. The only way, therefore, that the State could assist the poor under such circumstances in obtaining church accommodation was by paying for their religious instruction. The State would thus stand  in loco parentis 542
 Mr. Wallace  observed, that if the present system of patronage should be continued, it would be productive of the utmost dissatisfaction throughout Scotland. The first step of the Government should be to relieve themselves from its abuses. Church patronage in Scotland had been abused by all Governments, whether Whig or Tory, and perverted to political purposes. He intended to move for a return of the members belonging to the Established Church and Dissenting congregations respectively in
 543
 Dr. Lushington  would not have presented himself to the House on the present great and momentous occasion but for the observations personal to himself which had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken. The hon. Gentleman had alluded to sentiments expressed by him (Dr. Lushington) on former occasions, but when he declared his intention of supporting the motion now before the House, he must at the same time express his conviction that he should give that support without inflicting any violence upon any principles which he had heretofore expressed, and which he still maintained. He hardly thought it necessary to detain the House with even the briefest explanation of the language which had fallen from him in the course of former debates, inasmuch as the extracts which, by long and laborious research through the debates, had been submitted to the House, were too insignificant to call for a lengthy reply. It was, he thought, almost sufficient for him to say that mere portions of speeches, without adverting to the precise question in reference to which they were delivered, could not convey a correct notion of the sentiments which called forth that or those speeches. Nevertheless, an attempt had been made to put in opposition to his present sentiments words he had formerly uttered. The sentiments which had been quoted were those which had been expressed on the occasion of his noble Friend (the member for North Lancashire) withdrawing, or rather refusing to carry forward, the 147th clause of the Irish Church Temporalities' Bill. He believed that it was notorious to all who were acquainted with his opinions on that subject, that in that 147th clause he entirely acquiesced, and he now acknowledged that it was with considerable regret he found the determination of the late Government to withhold that clause, and what he had on that occasion said had not been intended to impugn the sentiments upon which that clause stood, or the truths upon which it was founded, but for the purpose of preventing the danger at that moment of
 565 566 567 568 569 l. 570
 Mr. Beilby Thompson  said, he rose as a country Gentleman to declare, if not wisely,
 571 572 573
 Mr. Warburton  opposed the Motion to discharge the Order for taking the Petition into consideration; and applying himself particularly to the question of the power of the House to grant the indulgence already conceded, he observed that he considered that the point of expediency had been disposed of on the 25th ult. The power of the House depended mainly on two passages in the Act: one at the close of the 5th, and the other at the end of the 7th clause. The first provided, among other things, that the name of the surety should not be changed more than once; and the House had already resolved that the correction of a clerical error, in the substitution of Thomas for Samuel Stokes, was not such a change of name as was contemplated by the Act. The passage at the end of the 7th clause, required that seven clear days should be given for inquiry into the validity of the sureties; but the hon. Member contended, that this provision applied to the names of the sureties, delivered in on the day when the petition was presented, or on the day after. He admitted, that this was construing the Act strictly, but insisted that in a case of this kind, where the merits were so decidedly in favour of the petitioner, the House ought to allow no latitude. The terms used in the proviso to the 7th clause, referred back to the 5th clause, and showed that it was to be interpreted with reference to it. He also argued that the examiners had gone beyond the line of their duty, as denned by the Act, in the Special Report they had made, upon which the present application was founded. The parties had had five days for inquiry into the circumstances of Mr. Thomas Stokes, of the parish of St. Mary, Leicester, hosier; but not a single day was actually necessary for the purpose, as he was perfectly well known
 545
 Mr. Rolfe  said, that it was essential that hon. Members should know what they were going to vote upon; and from the conversation he had had with several hon. Gentlemen, he did not think they knew what was the question they had to decide. His own opinion was, when the application was made to alter the name of the surety, that it was the duty of the House not to grant the indulgence asked; but, supposing that he was right in his opinion, and the House was wrong in its decision, that was no reason why the present Motion should be agreed to. He called on his hon. and learned Friends, the Attorney and Solicitor-General, to state their opinion to the House, whether it had the power to discharge the order. In his own opinion of the Act, the House had not, under the terms, the power to discharge the order for taking the Leicester petition into consideration.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, he could not agree with the hon. and learned Member, that the House was in any respect bound by its former decision. If that decision was directly in the teeth, and in breach of an Act of Parliament, as it assuredly was, the Resolution of the House was an absolute nullity. The change of name from Samuel to Thomas, was just as much a change of name as if they changed the name of Stokes. He would not go into the question of expediency; the House was sitting judicially, and ought to consider itself bound by the fair construction of the Act. He would only ask, would a Court of Law hold that this recognisance had been properly entered into according to the provisions of the Act of Parliament, and give judgment to the party suing upon it?
 The Attorney-General  begged to be permitted to address a few words, in reply to the challenge of his hon. and learned Friend, who had used the expression that all the arguments were in favour of the prayer of the petitioners. He was pre-
 546
 Mr. Aglionby  conceived that the argument of his hon. and learned Friend upon the construction that ought to be put upon the 16th section, had been unanswered, even by the hon. and learned Attorney-General, and was, in fact, unanswerable. Looking at the question, as to the equity of the Statute, he found his opinion strengthened, for no injury had been sustained, nor any person deceived by the change of the name of the surety.
 The Solicitor-General  said, the question the House had to dispose of was, in strictness, this—whether the House had power to discharge an order to hear the petition, in consequence of the recognisances required having been found not to be entertained within the time, or according to the form prescribed by the particular section of the Statute. He begged to correct the error of his hon. and learned Friend opposite; the question did not turn, as he stated, upon the 16th section, but upon the 5th section of the Act of Parliament. According to which it would be found that the recognisance in this case, had not been properly entered. It seemed to him that the examiners had renewed the recognisance, in order to enable the House to consider the question itself, and draw it within the jurisdiction of the House. He would now appeal with confidence to the Chair whether its opinion was not in conformity with his own as to the point of law, whether these recognisances were properly entered?
 The Speaker  said, he considered it to be his duty to state the course he had taken with respect to these recognisances, and the grounds on which he had acted. It was true that the party, before he received the recognisances, did serve a notice stating that he had not the power to receive them. The question he had then to decide was, how he should proceed under such circumstances? His object was, first, to do no injury to either party; and secondly, not to take upon himself the responsibility of putting a construction upon an order of the House, which the House itself had the power of construing and revising. If he had not received the recognisances, the necessary effect must have been that the petition must have been at an end. On
 547
 Lord Stanley  said, that he could assure the Gentlemen who were anxious to adjourn, it was a very natural desire at that period of the night ["No,  no! Cries of "Adjourn," and "No, no! 619 620 * * 621 622 623 624 625 l. 626 627 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 628 l. l. l. 629 630 A laugh 631 632 s. s. s. s. 633 s. s. s. s. s. 634 Hear, hear" and laughter from the Opposition. Loud Cheers. 635 636 637 Maurice O'Connell 638 639 640 ex confesso,
 Lord Dalmeny  said, that as the Representative of a Scotch constituency, he could state that there was no measure better calculated to increase the great unpopularity already possessed by his Majesty's Ministers in Scotland than a measure, the object of which would be out of the public purse to increase the endowments of the Church of Scotland. There was a decided feeling in Scotland against such a measure, and instead of increasing the goodwill there towards the Established Church, or strengthening its foundations, it would defeat any such object, and be productive of a great deal of harm. If there was so strong a feeling in Scotland in favour of the extension of the Established Church, why did not its friends keep up their own endowments? Why should England and Ireland be taxed for such a purpose?
 Mr. Hindley  said, that the Established Church of Scotland, having first increased the number of Dissenters in that country, by its system of lay patronage, now called on Parliament to aid it in building Churches for the purpose of bringing back those Dissenters to its fold.
 Mr. Littleton  said, that, although the Gentlemen with whom this motion originated were not to have the benefit of the vote of the hon. Member who spoke last, he had still heard with pleasure the honest expression of his independent opinion, because he could not conceive anything more unfortunate than that this Resolution should be carried by a mere party feeling, or, indeed, by any other motive than a sincere conviction of its importance and necessity. As far as he had been able to collect the speech of the hon. Member, for he had not heard the hon. Member very distinctly, the hon. Member had said, that his principle and primary ground for opposing this Resolution was, that it would trench on the existing interests of the clergy of the Protestant Church of Ireland. He believed—indeed, he was certain—that it would do no such thing. The hon. Member was completely in error on that point. It never was the intention of any man on that side of the House to propose a measure of such sheer injustice. He had never heard any of those who sometimes expressed extreme opinions,—he had never heard his hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex, nor the hon. and learned Member for the city of Dublin, speak upon this subject, without hearing them express this conviction—that honesty required that existing interests should be regarded. His right hon. Friend, the Member for Cumberland, and several of the hon. Members who had followed him, seemed to entertain the opinion, that the House was precluded by the Act of Union from requiring any further sacrifice from the Protestant Establishment in Ireland. He hoped that he was not less scrupulous than his right hon. Friend in regarding the
 574 575 576 577 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. Hon. Member l. l. l. l. l. l. 578 l. Hon. Member. l. l. 579 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 580 l. l. 581 582 l. 1. l. l. l. 583 584 585
 Mr. Littleton  rose to explain. The right hon. Baronet had noticed an observation which he described as having fallen from him (Mr. Littleton), to the effect that if the Tithe Bill proposed by the Government last year had passed, the 1,000,000 l. l.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, the right hon. Gentleman had misunderstood him. He had said, that in consequence of what took place in Parliament, when the Million Act was in progress, the people of Ireland were under an impression that they were no longer to pay tithes; and that after being called on to pay tithe to the State, which tithe the State found it impossible to levy, it would not be easy for the clergy to obtain tithe from them. He had never contemplated the employment of force.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, that if he had felt alarm and apprehension at the Resolution proposed by the noble Lord, the Member for Devonshire, that alarm and that apprehension were much increased, if he was to believe that his right hon. Friend, the late Secretary for Ireland, had spoken the sentiments of the Gentlemen with whom he was connected. He said so, because most of the arguments used by his
 586 Littleton l. l. l. l. 587 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. 1. l. l. l. l. l. 588 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. Littleton: l. l. l. 589 l. l. s. l. l. s. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 590 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 591 592 593 594 595 * Hear hear!" from the Opposition. * † Ibid. ‡ Ibid. 596 597
 Mr. Praed  rose and said the hon. Member for Reading, who had just sat down, had been mistaken in one of his concluding remarks, for the reproach made against him, and the side of the House with which he acted, was not that they brought forward
 554 "He had stated most distinctly, that whether there would be any surplus to take, or whether, on the other hand, the Church might not want some additional support, they must wait to ascertain the fact until the result of the inquiry which had been set on foot was known." * * 555 "A very great exaggeration has prevailed as to the amount of these revenues. I say, conscientiously, that greater exaggeration has prevailed on this subject, than has prevailed on any political topic which I recollect. Before I looked more narrowly into the question, I myself greatly exaggerated, to my own mind, the amount of the revenues of the Irish Church Establishment." "The present was but the shadow of a claim, to prosecute which, would be risking the peace and tranquility of the country for the sake of an abstract principle."† "With regard to the other part of the resolution, that the Establishment exceeded the spiritual wants of the Protestant population and ought to be reduced, that certainly ought to be founded on facts. He had a strong opinion on the subject, and did not hesitate to say, that if it should be found on inquiry that the religious and moral instruction of the people was not properly provided for by the Church of Ireland—the only ground on which an Established Church ought to be upheld—some measure should be devised for appropriating or reducing her revenues. He begged to say that he did not think the House right in the first instance to agree to a resolution pledging themselves to an abstract principle which might be afterwards contradicted by the inquiry consequent on that pledge."‡ * † Hansard's, (third series) vol. xviii., p. 1095. ‡ Hansard, (third series) vol. xxiv., p. 31. 556 "He thought it necessary to state that the House of Commons had aright, if the Ministers of the Crown had not their confidence, to express their opinion to the Crown, and had a right to require that the Ministers of the Crown should be persons in whose character and principles they are disposed to confide. But having secured that point it would be consistent with all proper principles of Government, and with the wisdom of the Legislature, to leave to such Ministers the task of bringing forward their measures according to the principles which they approved of." * "What then did they intend? Did hon. Members gravely propose to record a solemn resolution of that House affirming the existence of certain facts, and then institute an inquiry to ascertain whether these facts did or did not exist."† "To him, therefore, it appeared little less than a gross absurdity for the House to accede to the Motion of the hon. Member. If the House were prepared to deal with a question of such importance, in which the religious feelings of the country were so deeply interested without previous investigation, they would support the hon. Member, but if they conceived
 * † Hansard, (third series) vol. xxiv., p. 78. 557 * "What can be gained by assenting to this proposition? Are we to assent to it merely that we may conciliate one part of Ireland at the cost of irritating the remainder? If we were to legislate in the spirit of the Member for Dublin would any impartial man suggest that we should be dealing even-handed justice to the different parties in Ireland? I am not prepared to sanction a proposition which at the same time that it will not confer any advantage on one class will be considered as insulting the remainder. I never will consent to insult the Protestants of Ireland unless from the pressure of some deep necessity. I am not prepared to offer this useless and unnecessary affront." * 558 l. l. Hear, hear," from the Opposition Benches. 559 "I myself found three families in a little space not larger than what is within the circuit of these tables. Their beds are merely a little straw strewed at night upon the floor, and by day wrapped up in or covered with a quilt or blanket. They are obliged to do it up in that manner by day in order to have some vacant space. In these abodes of misery disease is often produced by extreme want. Disease wastes the people, because they have no food or comforts to restore them. They die in a little time. I have known a lane with a small district adjoining in the town in which I live to have been peopled by about thirty or forty families who came from the country; and I think that in the course of twelve months there were not ten families of the thirty surviving. The bulk of them had died. l. no. 560 "Do they consider it a greater hardship to pay to Clergymen than to lay impropriators? "I cannot say that they do, was the answer. I recollect many instances where they considered it a still greater hardship to pay to a lay impropriator. In lay impropriations they have considered it quite ridiculous to be paying tithes where there is not the slightest pretence of religion at all connected with it. "Which do you think is the feeling that operated most—an objection to pay where religion is not concerned, or an objection to pay where a different religion is concerned? "I do not think it makes any great difference. I am sure they would have a great objection to pay their own Clergy tithes. Abstract points of faith do not matter much" "Is it not a general feeling among the Catholics and amongst a great part of the Protestants also that the Establishment of the Church of Ireland should be very much curtailed? "It is a general opinion that the Establishment is unnecessarily rich; but I do not observe any feeling in Catholics as Catholics to exert themselves for its curtailment. "The feeling is rather an opinion of political economy than a religious feeling? "Exactly so. As religionists they have no particular feeling. "The Committee understand you as saying that it is the burthen itself that is oppressive, and not the circumstance of the person to whom it is paid? 561 "Yes; the burthen." "What," said the right hon. Gentleman referring to a speech of the hon. Member for
 562 "If, then, the vote of the hon. Member be given on such grounds as he had stated to the Bill for the removal of civil disabilities from the Catholics, I, friend as I have been from my infancy to the Catholics, would rather have his vote against me than see the cause to which I am attached burthened with, I will not say the disgrace, but the inconvenience, of his support. So that the hon. Member is at liberty to vote as he pleases, provided that he will not burden us with the absurdity of his opinion, I have been from the earliest period of my life an attached member of the Church of Ireland, and I am quite sure that I have never supported any motion which had a tendency to diminish the revenues of that Church." "He considered the Church property of England and Ireland as created and protected by the law like other property, but that it was not held absolutely, but on a certain condition. Therefore, while he denied the right assumed by one class to confiscate or appropriate the property of the Church, be equally denied the right of the other class to refuse inquiry into the way in which those public trusts were discharged, or in which the stipulated conditions were fulfilled. Acting upon this principle, whenever in Parliament a proposition was made for laying hold of the right of the Church and confiscating that property, to such a proposition he had always said "No!" But, on the other hand, whenever a motion was made for inquiry into the state of Church property for the purpose of seeing that it was properly applied, he would give that motion Ills cordial assent. He had voted uniformly against confiscation—he had voted as uniformly for inquiry. "In 1825 the hon. Member for Montrose brought forward his final attack on the Church—an attack which produced the magnificent speech of Mr. Canning in its defence. The motion on that occasion was, "'That the property new in the possession of the Established Church in Ireland is public property under the control of the Legislature, and applicable to such purposes as, in its wisdom, it may deem beneficial to the best interests
 563 "Did I, Sir, vote for that motion? Certainly not. If I had, on either of the two occasions to which I have alluded, voted for such a proposition, then the hon. and learned Gentleman might justly charge me with inconsistency. 564
 Mr. Wilks  had received many communications from Dissenters in Scotland on this subject, and he was justified in stating, that if not a majority, at all events a very powerful minority in that country, entertained the strongest opposition to any plan for extending, at the public expense, Church accommodation in Scotland, for the members of the Established Church there. It was extraordinary at this period of our history, to find a demand made upon the empire at large, to contribute a tax for increasing the Church accommodation of a peculiar religious party in Scotland. Such a demand partook of a degree of infatuation and injustice, that astonished him. He was sure that the Dissenters of the empire would firmly resist any such proposition.
 Mr. Hume  said, that if the poorer classes of Scotland were to have Church accommodation provided for them out of the public purse, he did not see why the poorer classes of England and Ireland should not have an equal right to make a similar demand. [Mr.  Cutlar Fergusson:
 Mr. Hume  would oppose all such grants, whether for the Church of Scotland, or for any other Church.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that because he supported the principle of making such a grant to the people of Scotland, it did not follow that he would deny the right of the people of Ireland, or the people of England, to a similar grant.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that whatever plan should be adopted, it was essential that Church accommodation should be provided for the poorer classes in Scotland.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  presented several Petitions from Kirkcudbright, and other places in Scotland, in favour of the extension of the Church of Scotland. The right hon. Gentleman said, that while no one could wish more than he did for the extension of the Church of Scotland, he must say, that all efforts towards that end would prove abortive without the settlement of the law of patronage, and giving to the people of Scotland an efficient share in the selection of their pastors. If the Legislature did that, and if, in endowing new churches in Scotland, they gave the selection of the pastors to the inhabitants of the parishes themselves, he was sure that there would be little to call for in the shape of a grant of public money for the purpose of building churches, as voluntary contributions would then pour in from the people to defray the expense. So small, indeed, would be, he was confident, under such circumstances, the advance required for that purpose from the public exchequer, that he was sure the Representatives of England, and the people of England, would not object to it. While he gave his assent to the principle of such
 541
 Mr. Spring Rice : The right hon. Baronet admits that he stated the collection of tithes in Ireland cannot go on without the employment of force; and, with the good sense for which he is distinguished, he further admits, that he is opposed to the application of force. Then, unless the House are prepared to differ with him, and to say that the collection of tithes shall for the future go on by force, I am justified by the right hon. Baronet's own admission, in saying, that the collection of tithes in Ireland is at an end. That is a dilemma, upon the horns of which the right hon. Baronet has fixed himself, and from which he cannot escape. Then what becomes of the Church of Ireland? Are the Clergy to live without tithes? To collect tithes is impossible, except upon an impracticable condition. Then what remains to be done? I again tell the right hon. Gentleman, that he cannot expect his Tithe Bill to pass into a law, whilst this Question of Appropriation remains unsettled. The gallant Officer, in alluding to the observations which had fallen from my right hon. Friend (the Member for Staffordshire), attributed to my right hon. Friend two opinions, which are the last to which I think he would have given utterance. The gallant Officer stated first, that the right hon. Gentleman had declared against a Church Establishment; and, secondly, that he was in favour of the voluntary principle.—Nothing could be more contrary to the fact. And. what does the right hon. Baronet allude to, as an illustration of what he most singularly termed the voluntary principle? Why, the budget of the King of Belgium, by which Protestants, Catholics, and even Jews, are instructed in religion—at the cost of the State. The right hon. Secretary for Ireland threw out insinuations against the principle of the measure brought forward by the noble Lord, the Member for Devonshire. The noble Lord, and the supporters of his measure, are charged with a disposition to attack the Church, and with a wish to cast fire brands, and to disturb the whole Church Establishment. I will only request hon. Gentlemen, before they take for granted, before they believe all that is asserted with so much hardihood, to take the trouble of referring to the debates that took place upon a Bill which is now the law of the land—the Church Temporalities' Act,—when they will find that there was no reproach, now brought forward by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, which was not urged by them with equal violence on
 600 "We say ruin, for we no more doubt that the complete overthrow of the Established Church will follow upon the execution of the plan now suggested for its reformation, than we ever doubted that the passing of the Reform Bill sealed the fate of the monarchy. A few years of uneasy existence the Church and the monarchy may drag on; possibly, probably, the latter may endure through the present generation: but both the one and the other are now as certainly doomed, as if a hand had written their downfall on the wall of our excellent monarch's banqueting-room." The John Bull. 601 602 Henry Hardinge. l. 1. 603 604 605 606 By the Act 28th Henry 8th, the minister of each parish is obliged to teach every child that presents himself for instruction, in the English language—the English language, at the time of enacting that law, being as little known to the peasantry as the language of Athens or of Rome; and, therefore, teaching children to read was not a very trivial duty. Yet, though every minister of a parish is bound by oath to comply with this Act, the only thing done towards carrying it into effect is a commutation of 40 s. l. l. l. l. That it is expedient to revise the Act of the 28th of Henry 8th, for the establishment of parish schools, and to make provision for ascertaining a new scheme, and rate of contribution towards their more effectual support and improvement. That it is expedient to establish, by the aid and authority of Parliament, an annual fund for providing school-houses in every parish and union within this kingdom, a residence for the school-master and for the free instruction of the poor. 607 The object of the Statute of 1537 (28th Henry 8th,) was the extension of the English tongue, language, order, and habit, with a view that every person should, to the uttermost of his power, use and speak the English tongue and language; and every such person having children shall procure them to use and speak the English tongue and language. And with a view to the general introduction of the English language, it enacts that no spiritual promotion should be given to any clerk, who did not speak English; unless, after a proclamation in the four adjacent market-towns, qualified persons could not be heard of. The statute contained the further enactment of the oath by which each incumbent is bound to keep, or cause to be kept, a school to learn English, taking for the same an accustomed salary or stipend. We now find a custom which has universally prevailed, to allow the schoolmaster 40 s. It is highly expedient that the contributions of the clergy should be paid with more regularity, and to a greater extent, than heretofore usual. It might not, it is submitted, be deemed unreasonable that they should be
 608 Les Irlandais sont plus Catholiques que le Pape." 609 610 The parish schools were established in the reign of Henry 8th, for the purpose of teaching the inhabitants of Ireland the English language; and the law directs that they should be kept by, or at the expense of, the clergyman of the parish. From that circumstance, it appears at one period to have been inferred, that the children brought up in the parish schools were to be educated exclusively in the Protestant religion. But that opinion is exploded, and in point of fact, children of every religious persuasion were eligible to be educated in these parish schools. Every clergyman took an oath to cause to be kept, or to keep such a school. non meus hic sermo. He was sorry to say that this law was very imperfectly complied with. * * 611 612 Whereas, the Dean and Chapter of Durham are desirous of establishing, in connexion with the Cathedral an University for the advancement of learning; and, whereas, the same Dean and Chapter are desirous that a specific portion of the property of the said Cathedral Church should be appropriated— —appropriated and set apart for the purposes of such University. And, whereas, this object cannot be effected without the authority of Parliament. That the property shall be vested in the Dean and Chapter, in trust, for establishing an University for the advancement of learning. There is still a power to sell, free from all trust, and free from any future claim on the part of the said Dean and Chapter, and their successors for ever. Well, but perhaps it may be said—indeed I am quite sure it will be said—that this Act is sanctioned by some ancient trust erected under the original grant or Charter. True, and in order to avoid all misrepresentation, I proceed to read to the House the Bishop of Durham's own explanation on this subject:— The proposed application of the Chapter Funds to the University of Durham, is strictly in accordance both with the spirit and the letter of the Chapter Statutes, which expressly point out the advancement of learning as one especial object of their endowment as a collegiate body; and had either the Chapter or myself imagined that the present measure was liable to misconception, nothing would have been easier than to have guarded against it, by a simple recital in the preamble of the Bill, of the very words of the original endowment as set forth. 613 Persons might be admitted to public lectures, in science or literature, of whatever description, without being subject, as students, to the discipline of the University. By this regulation, many might avail themselves of very considerable advantages from the institution, subject to no previous inquiry, or restriction as to their religious persuasions. With respect, also, to those students who were to be actually members of the University, it was intended to adopt the regulations of the University of Cambridge, which did not require tests or subscriptions at the admission of members, nor until they take degrees or other academical privileges. * He had great pleasure in being able to confirm what had been stated by the noble Earl (Earl Grey), that arrangements had been made to enable persons of all denominations to benefit by the instruction that would be afforded at the University. No religious tests would be imposed at the time of admission.† * † Ibid, p. 1218. 614 615 l. l. l. 616 617 618
 Mr. Spring Rice : I had been prepared to thank my right hon. Friend who spoke lust for having effected so much, in the course of his speech, towards giving this discussion the character of fair argument; but I must confess that I am compelled to withhold any expression of satisfaction, seeing that, before he sat down, he felt himself at liberty to alter his tone, and to address himself in terms of unmerited reproach to hon. Members on this side of the House. When the gallant Officer charges my noble Friend, the Member for Devonshire, with being the first to light a firebrand for the destruction of the Church, I will content myself with giving a simple denial to that charge; because, if I were driven to inquire from what quarter the firebrand was first flung, I might be tempted to err in the same manner which I condemn in the hon. Baronet. But I will not do so; rather let us discuss this question calmly and dispassionately—let us discuss it for the purpose of trying the simple issue of what is best to be done in the present exigency of affairs; what is most for the interest of the people of Ireland. Let us discuss this great question without perplexing ourselves with calculations of figures, like those of the right hon. Baronet opposite, upon the strength of which he has taken on himself the tone of legislative prophesy, venturing to assume that the Bill which he has introduced for the settlement of tithes in Ireland can be successful. On this point I must be allowed to express a very serious doubt; or rather, if I, too, might prophesy, I should say, that the fate of the Bill will be different from that which he expects. Let the influence of the right hon. Baronet, the First Lord of the Treasury, be what it may—
 598
 Mr. Sergeant Talfourd  rose, and said, he trusted the House would grant him its indulgence, as it was the first time he had ever risen to address it. He could assure the House, that nothing save the paramount importance of the principle at issue could have induced him to trespass on its attention; but when the assertion of that great principle was at stake, he could not justify silence on his part as the representative of a numerous and enlightened constituency. He confessed, he felt that the resolution of the noble Lord, the Member for Devonshire, not alone called upon every hon. Member for his vote, but required him to express also his sentiments, because it seemed to him, and it had been confessed and boasted by hon. Members who spoke
 548 549 550 551 552 "For by superior energies, more strict Alliance in each other, faith more firm In their unhallow'd principles, the bad Have fairly gained a victory o'er the weak, The vacillating, inconsistent good." 553
 Mr. Finn,  as a Roman Catholic, begged to disavow any claim on the public purse, for the purpose of giving support to the religion of 7,000,000 of people, a great portion of whom were much less able to provide Church accommodation for themselves, than the people of Scotland were.
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn  expressed himself sensible of the disadvantages under which he laboured in rising to address the House at that late period of the discussion; but his position gave him this advantage, that he had not only before him the motion of the noble Lord, guarded in its terms so as to unite as many as possible against the Government, but the opinions of the different parties who supported that motion, both as they appeared in the speeches of those who had addressed the House, and as they might be gathered from the no less significant silence of others. The hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down had said, that the resistance of the Government to this Motion showed a determination to resist all reform; but, on the part of the Government, he denied the soundness of that proposition. The hon. and learned Gentleman had, moreover, been pleased to characterize the Church of England as established in Ireland a sinecure Church
 692 Hear, hear!" from the Opposition. 693 694 "Hear, hear!" from Mr. O'Connell 695 696 697 698 699 700 701
 Mr. O'Connell —It is not my intention to trespass on the House at any length, and the moment that I perceive any symptoms of that impatience, which it is so natural to expect should be exhibited upon the fourth day of a somewhat tedious debate, I care not from what side of the House it proceeds, I shall submit to it, and shall resume my seat. Nor should I have addressed the House at all did I not feel that, humble individual as I am, I have a duty to perform, which does not fall to the lot of every Member of this House—You have been for four nights, for four conspicuous nights, debating upon a subject of the deepest interest to Ireland. To-morrow's post will carry to that country the result of your deliberations. What shall it be? Shall the message carry consolation to the people of Ireland, or shall it be the cause of still further exasperating their feelings?—I hope—I believe that it will have a soothing, not an irritating effect.—Oh, surely, you ought to be weary of misgoverning Ireland. For 700 years have you misgoverned her, and in a way in which one country never misgoverned another—[ "Hear," and cries of "Ques- 717 tion" 718 719 720 721 l. l. l. l. "Oh, oh," and "Question." Loud laughter. 722 l. l. 723 "Oh, oh!" 724 725 726 Cries of "No, no!" Boswell: 727 728
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was because he took very much the same view of the intention and effect of the question now before the House with the hon. and learned Member who had just addressed it,—because he believed that the carrying of it would be considered
 729 Hansard's 730 Debates Mirror of Parliament, 731 "There hot and cold, and moist and dry, Contend alike for mastery." 732 733 734 735 736 l. l., l. l.: l., l. l. l.: l., 737 l., l. l. l. l. l. l.; l. 738 l. l. 739 740 interruption 741 Cheers. "No, no!" and cheers. Loud cheers, and some interruption from the hon. Member for St. Alban's. 742 743 744 l. 745 l. 746 747 748 749 l.; l., 750 "Hear, hear," and "No, no, no". 751 "No, no" 752 753 754 755 756 "hear, hear," and laughter 757 758 l. l., l. 759 760 The right hon. Gentleman resumed his seat amidst the loudest cheering.
 Lord John Russell : Although I occupied the attention of the House for a considerable time, at the commencement of this debate, I feel it incumbent upon me to take some notice of the objections which have been urged against this measure, and more especially of the attacks which have been made upon my motives, and the motives of those with whom I have acted. The right hon. Gentleman who commenced the opposition to the measure, began with an attack, which has been since repeated more than once; he charged me with acting inconsistently with my former professions and declarations, in opposing the bringing forward of his Bill upon a question upon which the peace of Ireland is deeply concerned—upon a question in which the principle of the Church Establishment is really involved—and this, too, upon a motive (which he was pleased to impute to me) no better than a wish to impede and embarrass the present Government. I think, Sir, this accusation having been made, it is necessary for me—unwilling as I am to do so—to trespass upon the time of the House, in order to explain some parts of my conduct with reference to that great Ques-
 761 762 763 Chancellor of the Exchequer: 764 l. l., l. l. l. s., s. s. d. d. s. d. s. d. s. d.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : You are speaking of sinecures in the popular
 765
 Lord John Russell : What I mean is, that with respect to all those parishes in which there is not a single Protestant, or in which there is not more than one or two, there should be the same parochial superintendence still, but that no salary should be paid to the minister who really has no duties to perform that can be of any essential benefit to the great mass of the population of that parish, Well, Sir, the right hon. Gentleman then asked me whether I meant to pull down the churches? Now, Sir, as it might be considered that there was something extremely odious in any answer I might return to this question, I really do not know under what circumstances they might be permitted to stand; but at present they may be kept up without any very great expense; and I should consider that where there is any chance of a Church being used for the performance of Divine Service, it would be extremely wrong to pull it down. My noble Friend the Member for Lancashire (Lord Stanley) says that although he will not consent to anything of this sort being done in Ireland, yet he might be induced to consent to its being done in Canada, because you have entered into treaties with Canada, and it is quite right that there should be a different Establishment in Scotland, because the Scotch established their own Church. Now when my noble Friend talks in this way, surely he does a little forget that we in this House are bound to attend to the interests of Ireland as much as to those of the people of England. We sit here owing a solemn duty to the people of Ireland; and if it can be shown that any plan of this kind will be as useful to the people of Ireland as the establishment of the Roman Catholic religion in Canada was to the people of Canada, or of the Presbyterian religion in Scotland was to the people of Scotland, I do not think we should be fairly entitled to say "We are not bound by the letters of treaties, and therefore, we will disregard your cries, and refuse to listen to your complaints." It may be said—it has been said, indeed—that the plan I propose will go to affect the Church of England. Why, certainly, if I could suppose the Church of England to be in the situation in which the Church
 766 767 768 769 770
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, as we have already had four days' debate on this subject, I would suggest to the noble Lord the propriety of not proceeding with the Report until Monday. [ "No, no! Loud cries of "No, no!" "No, no!" 771
 Lord John Russell : After our deliberations have formerly lasted so long on a subject, nearly similar in its nature to the present Question there is, I think good reason for proceeding without delay, tomorrow. I do not, after the length of the present debate, anticipate that it will be protracted to-morrow.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said—I wish to observe that I did not propose delay as a Minister; but I suggested it to the noble Lord as a matter of convenience. In other respects it is a matter of perfect indifference to me whether we proceed to-
 772 "No, no," and cheers.
 Lord John Russell  said—I cannot help feeling we should proceed with the subject as soon as we can.
 Mr. Charlton  rose to order. The hon. and learned Gentleman was, he considered, out of order. The Question before the House related to the Irish Church Establishment, and the hon. and learned Gentleman was now speaking wholly on the question of confidence in Ministers.
 Mr. Ellice  concurred with his hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex, in considering that the petition was ill-timed, as a Commission had been issued by the Government to investigate the complaints of the people of Lower Canada, and he also agreed with his hon. Friend that the grievances complained of were not con-
 653
 Mr. Finch  begged to disabuse the noble Lord as to there being little or no debate on the further proceedings on this subject, as he (Mr. Finch) could assure him that many Gentlemen were anxious, and even determined, to state their opinions on the subject, who had been prevented from doing so on this and former nights by the Friends of the noble Lord. They had already had four nights' debate on this subject; and he did not doubt that if it did not last so long, the debate would at least last three nights more.
 Mr. Robinson  rose to order, and said it was not competent for any Member, on the presentation of a petition, to go into the whole question of Colonial policy, especially when a Commission had been issued by the Government.
 Mr. Young .—I did not say so.
 Mr. George F. Young  rose, pursuant to notice, to present a Petition from certain inhabitants of Annfield and Beauharnois, in Lower Canada, expressive of their dissent from, and entire disapprobation of, the ninety-two Resolutions passed by the House of Assembly in that province in the month of February, 1834. As his Majesty's Ministers appeared disposed to remedy the grievances complained of in former petitions presented to that House from Lower Canada, he conceived that he should best discharge his public duty by briefly adverting to the nature of the petition he had now the honour to present. Abuses had existed in Lower Canada from the year 1791 down to
 651 652
 Mr. Twiss  concurred in viewing this as a most important question—important on account of the principle which it involved; but considering the very slender amount of surplus which could at any time be produced, he thought it most unimportant to the people of Ireland. A great deal of the time of the House had been occupied with details of the sufferings of the Catholic population in Ireland. But the question was not now, whether some alteration should take place in the mode of levying tithe so as to give relief to the people, and throw upon the landlord that which had hitherto been paid by the tenant; but whether, in the amount of tithes continuing the same, it should be applied to the purposes to which it was at present applied, or to some others, which were not very clearly, or, at least, very unanimously defined. Therefore, he said, the appeal to this measure as a means of diminishing the military force in Ireland wholly failed. He did not believe the peasant or the small fanner in Ireland would be reconciled to the payment of tithe merely by the belief that a small portion of the amount would be devoted to purposes different from the present. On the last occasion when this subject was discussed, the resolution of the hon. Member for St. Alban's was opposed mainly on the ground of its being an abstract resolution. But those who opposed it on the ground of its abstraction went further on the present occasion. They were not, it was true, prepared to vote an abstraction themselves, but they would have the House go into Committee, which Committee should vote an abstraction. If the Gentlemen opposite were prepared to act without the information which the Commissioners were about to supply, why, he asked, had not the late Administration proceeded on the same grounds? He knew there would be no fairness in pressing upon any hon. Gentleman any casual expression used in the heat of debate; but when he saw a series of Gentlemen, combined for party purposes, take one regular and uniform
 710 711 712 l. l.,
 The Speaker  said it must be seen that the course hon. Members were pursuing was not calculated to advance the public business, or even to bring the debate to a speedy close.
 The Speaker  was understood to deprecate these discussions on petitions, but to express an opinion that the hon. Member for Bath was not out of order.
 Mr. Richards  had an Amendment to propose. [ "Oh, oh!"
 Mr. Richards  agreed with the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets, that it would be presumptuous for any one to set up a standard for all others in religious matters, as all were amenable to God, not only for the sentiments entertained, but for their actions in life. The noble Lord, the Member for North Lan-
 667 de novo, 668 669 670 671 672 patrimonia pauperum et stipendia pauperum non quasi suis, sed quasi commendatis. 673 O'Connell:
 Mr. Roebuck .—I can hardly pardon you Sir, for I am perfectly in order.—When the hon. Member presenting the petition had made a long speech, he (Mr. Roebuck continued) had a perfect right to reply to it; without being interrupted either by the hon. Member for Worcester, the Chairman of the Canada Company, or by the right hon. Baronet. He had a right to complain of the manner in which the hon. Member (Mr. Young) had spoken
 654
 Mr. Roebuck .—The hon. Member only a few minutes ago had acknowledged, across the Table, that he had used the words "verging upon treason." He (Mr. Roebuck) begged to say that justice would and should be done to that colony.
 Mr. Roebuck  was desirous of asking the hon. Gentleman who presented the petition, and who appeared as the organ of the minority of the House of Assembly, what it was that he complained of? Were not the English residents fairly represented, although they happened to be in a minority in the House of Assembly. [Mr.  Young
 Mr. Hume  was at a loss to know the real object of the petition, for he really could not gather it from the speech of the hon. Gentleman. That the British inhabitants of Canada had grounds for complaint he was not disposed to deny, but of this he was quite sure, that the French party were aggrieved also. The hon. Gentleman had spoken of the majority of the House of Assembly, declaring that they were unfit to legislate, and were not calculated to allay the irritation which unfortunately existed in that colony. He denied that such was the fact, and protested against the right of the hon. Member to charge the majority of the House of Assembly with acts of treason, for he implied as much. As to the ninety-two resolutions, he could only say, that they had received the deliberate approbation of the House of Assembly, and as such they were entitled to respect. He wished to know whether the statements made by the hon. Member were embodied in the petition he presented, for, if not, he conceived that they ought not to have been used? The hon. Member proceeded to defend M. Papineau from the attack made upon him, and stated, that that gentleman possessed the entire confidence of the House of Assembly, by whom he had been three or four times elected as Speaker, in opposition to Government.
 Mr. Hume  had not understood the right hon. Baronet to request the postponement of the Question that he might give further consideration to it. He would put it to him, therefore, whether, after four nights' debate, it was not better to go on with it.
 Mr. Borthwick  was at last allowed to proceed. He said that in the present state of the feeling of the House, though he could not consent to waive his right of addressing it, yet he would pledge himself to express, only those sentiments which he felt it his bounden duty to give utterance to. This pledge he would make, reserving to himself the liberty of speaking at greater length should the house go into Committee. The Question before the House was, whether or not there was any surplus revenues in the possession of the Church, and whether or not they should be devoted to the general purposes of education. As to the abstract good or evil of a national Ecclesiastical Establishment, he believed that that had been satisfactorily decided. A National Establishment was admitted to be most advantageous, and as the Church of Ireland was legally an Established Chinch, he begged to ask what were the grand re-
 715 716 The last three or four sentences of the hon. Member were lost from the noise of the House.
 Mr. Borthwick  rose amidst cries for Mr. O'Connell, and after silence was restored, the hon. Member observed that when he rose his intention was not to detain the House by any lengthened oration. This, however, hon. Gentlemen would not permit him to state—neither would they allow him to say that he would give way to the feeling on the Opposition side of the House. For that reason he now stood upon his right, and—[ The general shout from the Opposition and partial cheering from the Ministerial benches which followed this announcement rendered the rest of the sentence inaudible. The uproar continued for several minutes, and there were cries of "Divide."
 Mr. Borthwick  again left his seat, and attempted to speak; but his words were lost in the shout, and was followed by cries of "spoke."
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  said, that in rising to suggest an amendment which he thought might with great propriety be adopted on this occasion, he should hardly have thought it necessary to advert to an accusation that had been made against Gentlemen at that side of the House, of having acted from party motives and a desire to embarrass his Majesty's Government. He should not, he said, have felt it necessary to advert to this charge, if he did not feel himself conscientiously bound to protest, that although he admired the ability of the speech of his hon. and learned Friend, who had spoken last but one, yet there was one point in that speech in which he could not concur. That hon. and learned Gentleman had
 702 703 704 l. An hon. Gentleman said l. l. 705 706 707 708 709
 Mr. William Gladstone  was sorry that this debate had assumed such an aspect and that the hon. Member for Bath had indulged in such extraordinary and unwarrantable assertions. He did not say that the hon. Member was out of order; but this he would say, that the hon. Member, after the understanding which had been come to by the House respecting discussions on the presentation of petitions, was not justified in going into the statements he had just made. Was he justified in professing a knowledge of the interior concerns of the Colonial-office, which he (Mr. Gladstone) was not aware that the hon. Member had any peculiar means of obtaining? Was the hon. Member justified, after complaining of the attack made upon M. Papineau, who was absent and could not defend himself, in immediately after making an attack upon Mr. Hay, who was also absent, and could not defend himself? He begged to say that the attack was a most unfounded one.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  and Mr. Roebuck rose together.
 Sir E. Knatchbull .—Will the hon. Member pardon me for one moment?
 Sir J. Campbell  said, that he would, for his part, cheerfully abide by the contract into which the House had entered at the adjournment of the debate last night, that hon. Members should make a contribution out of their speeches to public convenience in order that this great and important discussion might to-night be brought to a close. He should have been disposed altogether to have waived any right he might have to address the House on this occasion, but for the circumstance that no Member from that part of the United Kingdom which he (Sir J. Campbell) represented, had as yet taken part in the debate. It appeared to him, that this was a question of all others, on which the feelings of every part of the empire should be plainly expressed; and, representing as he did, a constituency which would yield to none
 655 656 res integra l. l., l. l. l. 657 658 659 660 l. l. l., l. 661 662 663 in secula seculorum 664 665 peto pacem; 666 cum talis sis, utinam noster esses.
 Mr. Sergeant Wilde  said, he was sure the hon. Member who had interrupted him had altogether mistaken the subject of the debate. He (Mr. Sergeant Wilde) was alluding to a declaration of the right hon. Baronet, that he possessed an advantage which another Minister was not likely to have—that measures of his would have a chance of being favourably received in the House of Lords. What was that but to say, that the Lords would not decide by the merits of the measures which might come before them, but rather by the men
 677 678 679 680 681 682 683 684 l. l. 685 686 687 688 689 690 691
 Mr. Sergeant Wilde  assured the House that he was at all times unwilling to obtrude himself on its attention, and in
 674 675 676
 Lord Clements  said, that it might appear to be presumptuous in him, a plain country gentleman, to arrest the attention of the House, but he would only detain them for five minutes. His remarks would only apply to the effect this motion would produce in Ireland. He admitted that a great many causes of discontent were attributable to other sources than that of religious discord; but still, unless that one should be removed, all their efforts to pacify Ireland would fail. The proposed measure was a  sine qua non 714
 Lord Ebrington  said, that what had been stated by the hon. Gentleman appeared to him to afford an additional reason for immediately proceeding with the subject; for he had thought that the Question, if not finally settled, was considered virtually so; at least he considered it so, and therefore he was surprised that hon. Gentlemen were anxious to express their opinions on the subject. At any rate he thought it highly important for the sake of all interests—for the advantage of all parties concerned—that the Question should be brought to a final settlement as soon as possible. He trusted, therefore, that his noble Friend would persist in his Motion that the further discussion should take place this day.
 Sir John Campbell  said, that this petition was undoubtedly entitled to the greatest respect and attention, coming as it did from such an enlightened quarter. He thought, however, that the objections which the objectors made to certain portions of the bill were likely to be much obviated, if not altogether removed, as certain clauses had been introduced into it by the Select Committee, which gave him great hopes that the measure would meet with the unanimous assent of the House and the country. He begged to mention, that one of those clauses was one that put the recovery of book debts upon the same footing as that of bills and bonds. Another clause was, allowing compositions to be made by debtors with their creditors without resorting to law at all, so that the money which otherwise would go to the lawyers would go to their creditors. There had been other new clauses introduced into the Bill, by which he trusted all objections to the Bill would be removed, and that the measure would pass with the unanimous assent of Parliament and the country.
 Colonel Evans,  referring to clause 18 of the Bill, asked if it was intended to be omitted from the Bill, as the omission of it would remove many of the objections entertained by his constituents to the measure.
 Mr. Carruthers  said, that if the hon. and learned Member would leave out the clause applying to book debts generally, and confine it to book debts for goods sold and delivered, a great objection to the measure would be removed.
 Mr. Harves  said, that the clause to which the hon. Member alluded might still be altered. The measure would be a most valuable one, adding not only to the security of trade, but to the preservation of morality. He had also been intrusted with a petition against the Bill from a body of merchants who had met in the city of London, and after considering the measure clause by clause, they had written to him to say that they would suspend their opinion of the Bill until it had come out of the Committee. He had other petitions, not against the principle, but some of the details of the Bill; the petitioners stating that if it would give the same security to book-debts that it proposed to give to other debts, it would be a most valuable amendment.
 Sir John Campbell  said, that the clause to which the gallant Member for Westminster had referred was a most important one. It threw on the creditor who swore that a debtor was about to abscond, and who thereupon applied to have him arrested, the burden of proving that fact. That was a most important clause, and he would not consent to withdraw it from the Bill. If it were omitted, every debtor would be at the mercy of any creditor that might choose to arrest him.
 An Hon. Member  said, that this petition was signed by 5,000 individuals. The hon. Gentleman had said, that they had been induced to sign it through the intimidation of two reverend incendiaries. Now, he did not think that the people of England would feel very grateful at finding their petitions spoken of in those terms. The hon. Baronet had not said, that this petition represented the sentiments of the whole people of England, but that it was the first that had been presented on this momentous subject. He (the hon. Member) was quite sure that they would soon have petitions on the subject from one end of the country to the other.
 Colonel Evans  wished to know, whether the expression, "enemies of good Government," contained in the petition, was to be applied to the majority of that House? If that was the case, it would, he thought, be a question, whether the petition should be received at all. He for one would say, that he was sure this petition did not speak the sentiments of the people of England.
 An. Hon. Member  stated, from his own knowledge, that there were several parishes in the vicinity of Hamilton, without sufficient Church accommodation. In the Highlands it was well known that there were parishes twenty miles long with the Churches often placed at the extreme ends of them. It was necessary, therefore, that the poor of Scotland should be provided with Church accommodation, and this ought not to be made a political or party question.
 Sir Roger Greisley  having entered the House during the speech of the noble Lord, said, that he regretted exceedingly that he had put the Drogheda Election Committee to any inconvenience by his absence, and that he had thereby incurred the displeasure of the House. He begged most humbly and sincerely to apologize for it. The truth was, that he had not been able to retire to rest until half-past four this morning, and that he had last night found the atmosphere of the House so oppressive, that he had been in a state of extreme perspiration, which had been followed by a severe shivering. This was all he had to say, and he hoped it would be enough.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was aware of the evil of delay to all parties, but thought the House was bound in this, as in other cases, to avoid the greater inconvenience that might result from not strictly attending to the provisions of the express law upon the subject. He apprehended that his hon. Friend (Sir Roger Greisley) must attend at the next sitting of the House, and in the meantime the proceedings of the Drogheda Election Committee must be suspended.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was understood to suggest the propriety of not allowing excuses for absence on such occasions, to be too lightly made.
 Sir Roger Greisley,  having been sworn, repeated his statement, and assured the House that he should have given his attendance, but that he was much fatigued and very unwell.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, nothing, Sir, should tempt me to throw any obstacle in the way of the House coming to a decision on the question before it, but the present exigencies of the public service. With respect to the Navy Estimates, it is, I assure the House, of great importance that there should be a vote. On account, also, of the near approach of the expiration of the Mutiny Act, it is important that the Bill for the renewal of that Act, should be allowed to proceed. Under these circumstances, I beg to suggest to the House the propriety of coming to an understanding that if the debate, arising from the Motion of the noble Lord, should be adjourned this night, it shall not be resumed on Monday before the House has come to a vote on the Navy Estimates, and has advanced the Mutiny Bill a stage. I feel it to be my duty to state to the House that unless this course be pursued, great inconvenience will arise to the public service.
 Mr. Cole  stated, that he was once allowed to make an excuse at the Table of the House. 790
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : I propose to take only those votes, the postponement of which would occasion great inconvenience to the public service. My suggestion is, that if this debate should unfortunately go over till Monday, we should be allowed at five o'clock to advance the Mutiny Act a stage, and take a vote on the Navy Estimates. After that, probably at eight or nine o'clock, this debate might be resumed. I have given the House a reason why the Mutiny Act should proceed; and my right hon. Friend will, in his statement, explain to the House the necessity that exists for certain votes in the Navy Estimates being agreed to.
 Mr. Andrew Johnstone  stated, that last night he had not voted upon either side.
 795 796
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : The arrangement I have suggested, is only in the event of the debate of this evening being adjourned; but should it not, the advancement of the Mutiny Act a stage, and the coming to a vote of the Navy Estimates, will not, I suppose, occupy any great length of time; and in that case, at about eight or nine o'clock, I should have no objection to discuss the second reading of the Dissenters' Marriages Bill. But, of course, I leave that to be determined by the House.
 Lord John Russell  begged to state in answer to the hon. and gallant Member, that his resolution would not warrant any interference with private endowments; nor did he propose to meddle in any way with them.
 Lord John Russell  said, he thought, that as the Resolution was a general one, it was unnecessary to include matters of detail in it. They would more properly be the subject, of a Bill. He thought, also, that the adoption of the hon. Member's suggestion might give rise to a question as to whether the general education of the people was a secular purpose. Under all the circumstances of the case, he hoped the hon. Member would not think it necessary to submit a Motion on the subject. He thought that by adopting the Amendment of the hon. Member for Weymouth, he had satisfied those who had entertained some scruples on the subject of the Resolution.
 Lord John Russell  was not disposed to interrupt fair discussion. He did state, on the preceding night, that if there were several Members to address the House, it would be better to hear them before they came to a decision, and not a single Member rose at that time. He really thought that when a decision of that House had been declared, and with such a majority, they ought to determine upon going on that evening. As to the observation that had been made of great numbers being
 826
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would leave it to the candour of the hon. Member whether, after what he had then said, he should not vote with him for the adjournment. The hon. Member asked, if he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had ever known an instance, where a debate had been protracted to four nights, in which a debate was adjourned in consequence of a wish expressed by Members to deliver their opinions. [Mr.  O'Dwyer:
 Lord John Russell  was understood to
 828
 Colonel Conolly  bowed to the opinion of the Chair, but he hoped that the consequences of such threats in Ireland might be as unreal as his assertion. Every base motive had been brought into action to cover the real and insidious purpose of hon. Gentlemen opposite. They had practised delusion to cover their insidious purpose—they had adopted a tortuous course to achieve that which they dared not attempt openly. He would tell them that their conduct was factious. It had all the ingredients of faction except courage. He had felt it his duty thus to strip this scandalous proposition, on which the votes of 322 Members had been caught, of the garnish with which it had been covered. He complained of the whole course which had been adopted towards the Established Church. He complained of her ministers having been villified—her faith derided; but he would say, that from none do the Roman Catholic peasantry receive greater kindness than from the ministers of the Established Church in Ireland—and bigot as he was supposed to be, Roman Catholics preferred living with him to persons of their own creed. He could not conceive how Members who voted last Parliament against the repeal of the Union could have been induced to sanction this deadliest blow to the connexion between the two countries. It was impossible he contended to destroy the Church in Ireland without the separation of the two countries following as matter of consequence. If the Protestants in Ireland were not supported by Great Britain they would be compelled to seek safety in another land. It was a fact, that year after year they were flying in thousands from their native shores. Last year there were many of his own tenants, whom he was most anxious to
 800
 Colonel Conolly  said, that representing, as he did, a Protestant county, he could not refrain from denying the greater part of those assertions in which hon. Members at the other side had indulged during the debate. The Protestant population in Ireland had strong reasons to complain that their Church had been vilified—her revenues exaggerated, and marked out for spoliation—and every injurious course adopted to bring the Established Church into disrepute, during the discussions that had taken place upon the deceptive and furtive Motion of the noble Lord. His object in rising was to divest the Motion, so far as his humble abilities permitted him, of its outer guise, of its sinister and furtive character. It was pretended that the object of the present Motion was to promote education in Ireland. A more gross or iniquitous deception, under the pretence of affection for Ireland, was never yet attempted to be practised. The real object was, under a combination such as never before had been witnessed in that House—the object of this coalition, he would repeat, was, under a miserable generality, to aim a dagger at the breast of the Administration, which they dared not attempt openly to remove—and every thing which could disgrace the politician, and dishonour the human heart, had been resorted to for the purpose of carrying their nefarious intentions into effect. The Resolution was drawn in such a manner as to catch fish of all sizes within its meshes, but when it was exhibited in its proper colours to the English nation, they would despise those who resorted to such dishonest and interested means to carry their object. His own countrymen, however, would see the matter in its proper colours—he, as an independent Member of Parliament, should in his place denounce the measure, and it appeared to him that any person possessing a particle of understanding, must be able to divest the subject of the tinsel and glitter in which it was tricked out; and so
 797 Hear. 798 l. l 799
 Lord Hotham  appeared at the Bar with a Report from, the Drogheda Election Committee, that it had met this morning, but had separated again in an hour, without proceeding with any business, in consequence of the unexplained absence of Sir Roger Griesley.
 Lord Hotham  proceeded briefly to call the attention of the House to the serious inconvenience thus produced, and to the expense occasioned to the parties by delay, as the Committee could not now proceed until Tuesday. It was necessary, by the forms of the House, and by the Statute prescribing those forms, that Sir Roger Griesley should be ordered to attend in his place on Monday, or furnish through a witness upon oath, a sufficient excuse for his absence. He hoped, however, that if the hon. Baronet made his appearance before the conclusion of the present sitting, and stated the ground of his absence this morning, some mode might be found of enabling the Committee to proceed without more delay.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  said, that though the hon. Baronet had moved that the petition should be read at length, there was nothing in it that called for the attention of the House. It was filled with the grossest and most absurd misrepresentations, originating, no doubt, from a total ignorance on the part of the petitioners of the real condition and state of Ireland. He would deny that the petition should be regarded as representing the feelings of the people on this Question. It had not proceeded from a free assembly of the people. It came from a meeting, the work of two reverend incendiaries, who had come over from Ireland for the purpose in the course of last year, and one of whom, a beneficed clergyman of the Church of Ireland, left his parishioners to take care of themselves—not forgetting, of course, to provide that his tithes should in the meanwhile be duly collected. These two clergymen came over to this country for the purpose of raising the "No Popery" cry. From his own local knowledge of Ireland, he would state, that this petition was filled with the most audacious misrepresentations with regard to that country. It was clear that the Church of Ireland stood on different grounds from the Church of England, and that it was perfectly open to those who, like himself, wished to
 786
 Mr. O'Dwyer  begged to ask the right hon. Baronet, if, after the majority in that case had been ascertained, there was a renewed debate.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  appealed to the Chairman's Parliamentary experience, whether the House of Commons had ever adjourned on the sole ground that some few Gentlemen were unable or unwilling to attend. The truth was, that the greater part of the House were perfectly satisfied with the decision of last night. It put the matter beyond dispute, and he could easily understand that Gentlemen who wished to guard themselves against the charge of offering a vexatious opposition to the well-ascertained feelings of the House of Commons, would infinitely prefer staying away to coming down and dividing the House on every occasion of that kind.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that as the hon. Gentleman was not heard, he felt it his duty to persevere in the Motion he had already made. [" Adjourn, adjourn!
 Colonel Sibthorp : I can assure the right hon. Gentleman opposite, that whatever construction he may take the liberty—I repeat it—may take the liberty—and I think it is a very great liberty to put any construction on my Motion—I shall leave him to maintain his opinion; and following his example of taking liberties, shall take the liberty of entertaining mine.
 827
 Mr. Harvey  reminded the right hon. Gentleman, that the Returns had been modified at his express suggestion, in order that they might be less expensive. He apprehended that the House would adhere to its own order, especially when he stated, that his object in moving for the Returns was to know the parties benefitted, and to the extent to which they had been paid out of the million voted. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated, on a former day, that only about 700,000 l.
 Mr. David Barclay  wished to ask the noble Lord, the Member for Devonshire, a question,—namely, whether he would consent to insert in his Resolution, words which would declare that the surplus fund should be appropriated to no secular purpose whatever except the purpose of edu-
 821
 Mr. Littleton  said, that noise, and the declamation of set speeches were not the legitimate attributes of debate, but the statement of the hon. Member, who had last spoken, that the observations he had made had been offered on the spur of the moment, was the best excuse that hon. Member could offer. The hon. Member had been pleased to say, that the cause of the county of Down meeting in November last, was the unanimous feeling of that county, that even-handed justice could not be obtained from the Government. If that was the case, why, before the close of the last Parliament, had no specific charge been preferred against the Government? He (Mr. Littleton) challenged the hon. Member to make the charge, and should the hon. Member do so, he could promise him a most triumphant answer. He should have remained silent on the present occasion but for the taunt which the hon. Member had thrown out. He must, however, take this opportunity of asking the hon. Member, whether or not he was one of four or five magistrates who had put their names to the requisition printed and published in the county of Down, inviting the impartial judgement of the Orange lodges of that county at the meeting in question.
 Mr. Littleton  admitted that the Returns could not be made in the details specified without incurring a heavy expense; but he thought that a personal arrangement between the hon. Mover and the right hon. Gentleman would lead to an easy mode of effectuating the object.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that he would not sit still and hear those two reverend gentlemen, with whom he was personally acquainted, called incendiaries. If there was anything in the petition disrespectful to the House, which he did not believe was the case, he would not justify it; but he must say, that it was equally unjustifiable on the part of an hon. Member in that House thus to attack two individuals who were absent, and who were most estimable men in every respect, both in public and private life, as well as distinguished by the greatest acquirements, and the most eminent talents. He was sorry to find any hon. Member thus led away to give expression to language equally unparliamentary and unwarrantable.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that nothing had struck him so much, from first to last in the debate, as the difference between the real and professed object of the Resolution, between the ground upon which the majority supported it, and the working of it by the noble Lord, as well as the construction sought to be put upon it in the speeches of the noble Lord's immediate section, and more especially, in the able and ingenious, but he could not add candid, speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Cambridge (Mr. Rice); the right hon. Gentleman had said, that the object with which he sought a surplus was for purposes purely Ecclesiastical; now, if this was education under the superintendence of the Protestant clergy, it would be one to which some proportion of the Church property might be applied, and if his right hon. Friend (Sir R. Peel) had been as anxious to find an excuse for supporting the Resolution, as the noble Lord and the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Rice) were studious to conceal its real object, he might have saved himself some trouble, but then he would not have acted with that manliness and straightforwardness which had distinguished him since he had taken office. As to the question of education, to what did it come? He would not go into the contested question of education generally. [ Cheers. 814 815 Cries of "Question." 816 817 * * 818 819 820
 Mr. Finch  said, looking at the Irish Church as it at present existed, he certainly considered that the proceedings now adopted were neither decent nor respectable, in reference to that venerable institution. It had been said, that bringing forward the Tithe Bill, occasioned the
 792 793 794 l., l.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  referred to an order made on the previous day on the Motion of the hon. Member for Southwark, for certain Returns connected with the million sterling voted by Parliament to pay arrears of tithes to lay and other impropriators in Ireland. Those Returns were to be prepared in great detail, particularly by dividing the tithe-payers, in respect of whose arrears the claims were made into classes. He had hesitated to fulfil the order of the House, because on writing to Ireland he found that the expense of doing so would be
 788 l. l. l.,
 Sir Henry Hardinge  impressed upon the House, that he had not the slightest objection to grant all the information required, excepting on the score of expense.
 The Speaker  said, that the provisions of the Act required that the Member should attend in his place unless a sufficient excuse was made; now he did not know why, if the excuse of the medical attendant was receivable, they should not admit the excuse of the hon. Member himself, delivered by him in his place.
 Dr. Bowring  congratulated the House at having at last recognised a principle which had been established throughout Christendom, and which, as he believed, contained in it the elements of future peace and tranquillity. In its recognition we were but following the example of all other nations, whether Catholic or Protestant. In Portugal the Government and Cortes were at this moment occupied in appropriating the surplus revenues of the Established Church. In Spain he had himself been present at the discussions which had taken place when the Cortes had for its President a Catholic Bishop, and a large number of the Ecclesiastical hierarchy were Deputies of the nation. The difficulties were not as to the right of the State to interfere—that was a point conceded—but as to the amount of the property to be taken from the Church and applied to other national purposes.—In France, happily the same result had been arrived at—a result, whose beneficial
 822
 Mr. Roebuck  rose to order. It was, he submitted, highly irregular to make such charges. The hon. and gallant Member had charged the hon. and learned Member for the city of Dublin with instigating to murder.
 Mr. Wilks : I beg to remind the right hon. Baronet that the Dissenters' Marriages Bill stands for a second reading on Monday night. Will the right hon. Baronet have the goodness to inform the House whether he proposes that that Motion shall be brought on?
 Mr. Hume  said, he thought the declaration of the hon. Gentleman would be sufficient. He recollected that, on a former occasion, the oath was dispensed with, and he believed the House would be perfectly satisfied with the hon. Gentleman's simple statement of the cause of his absence.
 Mr. Hume : Should the debate of to-
 791
 Mr. Borthwick  observed, that it was now past twelve o'clock, and therefore moved that the Chairman should report progress and ask leave to sit again. [ Cries of "Divide" and "Adjourn." Hawes "Adjourn" Cres of "Adjourn," and "Go on,"
 Mr. Borthwick  explained, that his object in moving the adjournment was to afford junior Members, of his standing, an opportunity of being heard, an opportunity which he himself had been unable to obtain yesternight. [" Adjourn
 The Chairman (Mr. Bernal)  could hardly think the hon. and gallant Member meant what he said.
 Mr. Potter  said, that the Resolution carried by the noble Lord, would, in fact, be beneficial to the Church of Ireland itself.
 Mr. Spring Rice  wished to state, with all possible good humour, that he would be the last man to put a misconstruction on a Motion coming from the hon. Member for Lincoln. He had given no interpretation of it—he had merely called the attention of the House to the fact, that if the Chairman left the Chair on the present motion, the proceedings were at end.
 Mr. Spring Rice  intreated the Committee to remember, if they were about to divide, that the proposition of the hon. Gentleman would have the effect of getting rid of the Question altogether, and of closing the subject.
 Mr. Wyse  said, he believed the noble Lord who had last spoken understood but little the real sentiments of the country, for in the north of Ireland the cry of "No Popery" he believed was entirely extinct. But he did not wish to dwell upon this subject. He should turn from the war cry of the noble Lord to the Question before the Committee, and should at once resume the subject of debate. He would call the attention of the House to the Question before it, and he would request that the Resolution before the Committee be read by the Clerk, in order that it might be known what the Resolution was. [" No, no. 810 811 812 813
 Mr. Gillon  presented a petition from the inhabitants of the parish of Ayton, in Berwickshire, against the proposed additional endowment of Churches and Clergymen of the Established Church of Scotland. This petition had been signed not by Dissenters only but by many of the Churchmen themselves. It had been agreed to, also, at a public meeting called for the purpose of considering the question, not like the petitions in favour of the endowment, which had been carried about from door to door by the Clergymen themselves and their Elders. The manner in which these petitions had obtained signatures was little creditable to the promoters of them. All sorts of devices had been resorted to; the names of children, of very tender years, had been affixed, and of women who could not write their own names. Persons had been told that they
 783 
 
 Population. Necessary Accom. Present do. Deficiency. 
 9,513 4,750 800 4,200 
 
 Necessary Accom. Actual do. Surplus. 
 4,101 5,800 1,396 784
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  said, on the subject of tithes, he had in another place stated, and he now repeated his opinion, that justice was not done to the Catholic or Presbyterian population in being called on to contribute to the support of a Church to which they did not belong. It had been objected to the present motion that it would not satisfy the people of Ireland, and the case of the Catholic Question was instanced as one from which great expectations were held out, none of which had been realized in tranquillizing that country. He would admit that Catholic Emancipation had not produced the good that was expected from it; but the reason was, it had not been accompanied with those other necessary measures which the state of Ireland called for. The abolition of Tithes was one of those measures, and he was convinced that until that measure was finally and amicably disposed of Ireland would not be tranquil. There were other measures also necessary for attaining that important object. One of these was the application of a part of the revenues drawn from Ireland to the employment of the people, and another the establishment
 801
 Colonel Verner  said, before the noble Lord opposite submitted his motion to the House, he should take the liberty of calling its attention to a case in which he was deeply interested, and of asking a question arising out of it, to which he was naturally desirous to receive an answer. The case and the question could be very briefly stated, and he should beg leave to repeat them. The case which he submitted to the noble Lord was this:—For some time past it had been his intention, as soon as some arrangements which he contemplated were completed, to erect a
 802 803
 Colonel Verner : He did not hear the expression made use of, which he was informed, applied to those two reverend gentlemen; but he could not allow any imputation to be cast upon the character of the reverend Mr. O'Sullivan, without standing up in his defence. He had the pleasure of knowing the reverend gentleman most intimately—perhaps better than any other individual in that House. He was the rector of the parish in which he resided, and from the many occasions he had had of judging of the purity of that gentleman's mind, the uprightness of his intentions, his integrity, his moral and religious worth—he (Colonel Verner) had no hesitation in pronouncing Mr. O'Sullivan to be incapable of acting in any manner derogatory to the character of a clergyman and a gentleman.
 The Attorney-General  said, that the Act did not require the statement to be made on oath.
 Sir Richard Vyvyan  had a most important Petition to present from the City of Bristol, signed by upwards of 5,000 Inhabitants of that City, respecting a subject at present before the House, and the discussion on which stood for that evening—he meant the Irish Church. The petition was agreed to at a public meeting held in that City in the month of November last, in expectation of some such measure as that which had now been proposed by the noble Lord, the Member for Devonshire; but he (Sir Richard Vyvyan) had not received it for presentation until yesterday. It was from the Magistrates, clergy, merchants, and other inhabitants of the City of Bristol, and the petitioners expressed their deep and awful sense of the danger that would accrue to the Protestant Reformed religion in Ireland by any attacks that should be made on the Church Establishment there, and they declared their conviction, that they would be the enemies of all Government who should make or countenance such attacks. They farther stated, that they would stand by the Church of Ireland, being fully assured that if it were assailed, the Church of England would soon be assailed in the same way—he quite agreed on that point with the petitioners. He was sure of this—that if they should surrender up the Irish Church on the principle, that it was not to be kept up in Ireland in those places where no Protestants were to be found. He was sure that if they admitted that principle once in Ireland, it would sooner or later be applied to the English Church too. It was impossible on any such abstract principles to defend
 785
 Sir Richard Vyvyan  said, that this petition had been agreed to at a public meeting of the inhabitants of Bristol. He (Sir Richard Vyvyan) had not been present at that meeting, but he would not allow the two reverend and respectable gentlemen who attended there, to be called incendiaries. He had no personal acquaintance with the reverend Mr. O'Sullivan, but he knew Dr. Boyton, and he was the last person who deserved to be called an incendiary, though no doubt that reverend gentleman held strong opinions. He begged to say, that this petition, emanating from the inhabitants of Bristol, depended in no degree upon the gentlemen who had attended the meeting from Ireland. It expressed the sentiments of 5,000 inhabitants of the City of Bristol, and he believed that it truly represented the feelings of the people of that City respecting the Irish and English Church. With regard to what had been said by the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster, he (Sir Richard Vyvyan) did not think that the petition contained anything dis-
 787
 Sir Robert Bateson  said that he had never heard of the requisition alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman. He was not an Orangeman. With regard to charges against the late Government, the right hon. Gentleman need not be so eager; perhaps they might be made sooner than would be agreeable. The right hon. Gentleman ought to be the last man
 807
 Sir Robert Bateson  could assure the House, that he would not detain them at any length, nor should he have addressed the House at all were it not for the allusions that had been made by the hon. Member for Dundalk, to the meeting held last year in the county of Down; and as neither of the Members for that county happened now to be in their places, he trusted to the indulgence of the House while he refuted the charges that had been brought against those who attended that meeting. He begged to state, in answer to those taunts, that the meeting (the objects of which had been so much maligned and misrepresented, and in which never was a more respectable assembly congregated) had been held because the people of that important county felt the greatest want of confidence in his Majesty's late Government—because they were satisfied that Government was no Government for them—that in Ireland the Protestants, had not, under that Government, fair play; but, on the contrary, because the constituency of the county of Down had discovered that, whatever the hon. and learned Member for Dublin chose to dictate to the late right hon. Secretary for Ireland, that became the law of the land. He stated without the fear of contradiction, that never was there a more unpopular Government to the mass of the Protestants of the north than was that over which the right hon. Gentleman opposite had presided. The right hon. Gentleman, however, chose to sneer at that meeting, but he (Sir R. Bateson) must be permitted to say, that the sneer came with peculiar bad taste from the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Littleton) when applied to the county Down meeting. The meeting in question, combining, as it had done, all the pro-
 804 805 806
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that having been personally alluded to, he should be wanting in respect to the House if he did not endeavour to address a few observations in reference to what had fallen from hon. Members on the other side. He was sorry that he had not been present in the House when the hon. Member for Dundalk had alluded to the late meeting of the inhabitants of the county of Down. He (Lord Castlereagh) thought he had set himself right with the House in respect to that subject. He had stated that there was a disinclination prevailing in the north of Ireland to the payment of Tithes. But the landlords of that part of the country had taken upon themselves the payment of the tithes, and the hon. Member for Dundalk knew as well as himself that the most beneficial results had followed. He (Lord Castlereagh) was unwilling to analyze the petition on the subject of tithes which had been presented by the hon. Member, but of one of those petitions he would state, as a fact, that it was hawked about through no less than ten parishes, and obtained only about 4,500 signatures. It had been attempted to be shown that the meeting in question was an Orange meeting, convened, as the right hon. Gentleman opposite had seemed to assume, by a requisition bearing the signatures of four or five magistrates. He would ask the right hon. Gentleman if the Orangemen had come out to that meeting with insulting supremacy or taunting ascendancy—with either violence or menace? No such thing. He would not enter into the numbers of the individuals comprising that meeting, described by some of the newspapers as 50,000, but this he would say, that before twelve o'clock at night the town of Hilsborough was as quiet as though no such immense meeting had been held therein—a meeting which left no recollection behind it of an unhappy or unpleasant character. This, however, had been designated as a dangerous meeting. On the subject now before the House, he should be devoid of every feeling, standing in the situation he did, if he maintained a strict silence. With respect to that subject, the first sentiment (divested, as in his mind it was, of party feelings), which occurred to him was, that the maintenance of the Church of Ireland was assailed, and that it was now attempted to undermine its best secu-
 808 Oh, oh! 809
 Lord Sandon  said, that after five nights' debate he had heard that evening not one argument recommending the Resolution before the Committee. He had heard nothing that could instruct him how the Irish people were to be reconciled to Tithes by the carrying of the Resolution before the Committee. When they were called upon to adopt such a principle as that contained in this Resolution had they not a right to ask whether the appropriation which it proposed would be satisfactory or not? On this point he had not heard a single observation made, but he thought they should be furnished with some information on that head before they agreed to an abstract Question. He was willing to admit that the State had the power to deal with the revenues of the Church; but he at the same time thought that such a right ought not to be exercised save in an ex-
 823 l. l. l. 824
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  confessed he had never before heard of this connexion; remote as it was, he could not for a moment anticipate it would produce a prejudice in the minds of a liberal population, such as the Canadians, against a Nobleman of so much talent, and who had filled so high a situation as the Governor-Generalship of India.—He appreciated justly the character of the people of Canada, and believed they would be above any such groundless and unworthy prejudice.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought it impossible any such slight connexion as that alluded to could influence the conduct of the Canadians in this dispute. He entertained too high a respect for them ever to conceive it possible they should harbour suspicions of the impartiality of the noble Lord appointed on that very delicate and important mission.
 Colonel Evans  said, that he might as well take this opportunity to call the notice of the House to subscriptions which were being raised in the city of Westminster for the same purpose, namely, the corruption of the electors. He had seen in the public prints advertisements calling for such subscriptions, and in which advertisements it was modestly stated, that the object was to send members to Parliament for Westminster, which the advertisers were pleased to say had hitherto been unrepresented. The advertisement also stated that a Westminster Conservative Society had been formed for the purpose, and it specified several noblemen and gentlemen who had subscribed to it. Why should noblemen thus ostentatiously interfere with the freedom of election? He thought that if there was any Member of the Bribery and Intimidation Committee
 835 "Oh!"
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : It is my intention to adhere strictly to the engagement I entered into with the Noble Lord, by throwing no impediment in the way of proceeding with this debate; but, at the same time, it is my duty to bring before the House our position with respect to the Navy Estimates and the Mutiny Bill. Instead of making any speech about the Navy Estimates, I will merely read a part of a letter addressed this day to the Board of Admiralty by Mr. Briggs, who holds a situation connected with that department:—"The day of payment of wages (says this gentleman) is Friday next, when they become due, for which no sup-
 838
 Lord John Russell : As far as I am concerned, I can only say that I shall not resist the course which the Right Hon. Baronet proposes to follow with respect to the Navy Estimates and the Mutiny Bill. I, however, beg to be understood to pledge myself no farther. Before the House resolve itself into the Committee on the Irish Church, it may be expedient for me to state the course I mean, with the concurrence of the House, to pursue. I did not wish, on Friday last, to be led into any premature declaration, which had not been duly considered. After what was said by the Right Hon. Baronet on Thursday night—after the vote then adopted by so considerable a majority—a majority, including those who paired off, of the whole House of Commons—I will not enter into the question of the manner in which we may hereafter be met; but merely say, that after mature reflection, the course I propose to take will be this:—Supposing the House should agree to-night, in Committee, to the resolution I have proposed, I shall suggest that it be reported to-morrow; if the House should further agree to that report I shall follow it up by a resolution, of which I cannot now give regular notice, but which I will take the liberty of reading:—"That it is the opinion of this House that no measure upon the subject of tithes in Ireland can lead to a final and satisfactory adjustment which does not embody the principle conveyed in the foregoing resolution." If at the conclusion of the debate it shall appear that this resolution is not satisfactory to a majority of the House, I shall then proceed, as I before gave notice that I should proceed, by moving, on the succeeding day, an address to the Crown, I shall not, however, move
 839
 Mr. Borthwick  said he would not follow the noble Lord who had moved the resolution through all the misty steps which he had taken, from the history of the first Edward through the reign of Elizabeth, down to the commencement of the present century, because, whatever grievances might in those years have been inflicted upon Ireland, and however favourable the subject was for declamation, he did not feel that any legitimate inference could be drawn from any one of those circumstances to the argument then before the House. The noble Lord had said in his speech that he hoped the time had arrived when the House would legislate in a better spirit than it had done hitherto. No longer ought they to give to the repeatedly enforced complaints of a few what belonged as a right to the people on abstract principles of legislation. If the demands made by the Roman Catholics of Ireland were just, concession ought to be made on the grounds of right and justice, and not on the ground of a compact with the preceding government. Much talk there had been of the Serbonian bog in which the noble Lord opposite had so devotedly plunged; and Burke had been quoted to show that he considered the property of the Church at the disposal of the State. When hon. Gentlemen quoted he would wish them for the future to do it more correctly. The following was the passage from the "Reflections on the Revolution in France," from which it was attempted to establish the principle of the noble Lord:—"From the united consideration of religion and constitutional policy, from their opinion of a duty to make a sure provision for the consolation of the feeble and the instruction of the ignorant, they have incorporated and identified the estate of the Church with the mass of private property, of which the State is not proprietor, either for use or dominion, but the guardian only and the regulator." And this property, which was here laid down to be not for use or dominion, but of which the State was only the guardian and the regulator, it was now argued might be applied to the purposes of the State. A quotation made from Blackstone had been equally infelicitous. Quoting from that high authority, it had been said the Church was the child of the
 840 841 842 843
 Mr. John Maxwell  said, that in rising to address a few words to the House, he begged to state that the reasons which had
 844
 Mr. Baring Wall  was grateful as there were no surplus funds, that it was not necessary to raise a religious cry in Ireland; neither was the House called on to pander
 845 846
 Mr. Lucas  as the representative of a county in Ireland which was peculiarly Protestant, hoped he might be permitted to offer one or two observations. In his opinion the surplus revenues of the Protestant Church, if any, should be first applied to strictly Protestant purposes, such as the repairs of Churches and the building of glebe-houses, and, next, to the education of the Protestant population. If, after this, a further surplus should remain, instead of a general indiscriminate system of education, the members of the Presbyterian Church of Scotland should be considered, and the education of that class of the Irish community should be provided for, instead of the funds being applied to Roman Catholic purposes, even those of education. The remaining surplus ought then to be devoted to the repayment of the 1,000,000 l.
 Mr. Henry Lytton Bulwer  commenced by alluding to the observations of the hon. Member for the county of Lanark (Mr. John Maxwell), in reference to the fact, that a Commission of Inquiry having been issued, the returns from which might soon be expected to be laid on the Table of the House, it would be unfitting to come to a decision on this Question until that information was afforded, This objection had
 847 848
 Mr. Francis Bruen : Will the Committee favour me with its attention for a few moments? I never had the honour of addressing the House before. The subject is of the deepest importance to my country. I have resided in that country for an uninterrupted period of nearly twenty years, and for the few observations, which I shall feel it my duty to address to the Committee, may I hope for its courtesy and indulgence? Nothing has surprised me more in the course of of this debate than the conflicting accounts with regard to the real property of the Church of Ireland—the discrepancies
 849 l. l. l. l. l. l,; l. s. 850 851 causas vivendi. 852
 Mr. Baines  observed, that the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and all who had spoken on the same side, had
 853 l. l. "Hear, hear!" from the Ministerial benches. 854
 The Marquess of Chnndos  said, that in part of the remarks of the last speaker he fully concurred. He was anxious to correct the abuses of the Church establishment, and for this purpose he should be disposed to lend his humble aid to enforce the residence of the clergy, and the abolition of pluralities in the Church; but while lie was disposed to correct those abuses, he would not do away with the Church altogether, and hand its revenues over to another establishment. Whatever might be the object of the noble Lord, in bringing forward this Resolution, the noble Lord might be assured that if he once handed over the revenues of the Church to another religion, he could not stop there; and though he might think that he did enough in applying the surplus for the purpose of moral and religious education, he might rely upon it that he would be called upon to do more—he would be called upon to hand over other portions of
 855 856 *
 Mr. William Roche  said, in reply to the quotation with which the noble Lord who had just sat down concluded his speech, importing that the Union of Great Britain and Ireland depended upon an union of their Churches, I beg to say that whether Lord Plunkett, whose sentiments he quoted, be right or wrong in that respect, there is another ingredient still more necessary in my opinion—namely, an union of hearts, arising from a sense of justice and good Government. Sir, I was unwilling to interfere in this debate, because
 * 857 858 859
 Mr. Scarlett  had great satisfaction in being able to state that his sentiments on this question were entirely in accordance with those expressed in a petition which he had had the honour to present from his constituents. This was not a mere question whether, by the disposal of an imaginary surplus for some undefined purposes, funds should be supplied for education, but whether, under that pretence, a confiscation of those funds should take place for the use of the Catholic priesthood. The declarations which had been made by many of the Roman Catho-Members during the Debate were at variance with the oaths which they had taken on their entrance to that House. They were told that it would be no impeachment of their consistency to go a certain length. It would, however, be a great impeachment of their prudence. Would they embark in a vessel that was manned and steered by their enemies? If they did so, they must expect to see the crew take her to an enemy's port, and would be very sorely suspected of connivance. He had as yet heard no good reasons stated why they should abandon the right and pursue the expedient. The noble Lord who brought forward the Motion said he saw no difference between appropriation and distribution. "If," said the noble Lord, any part of the property of a Dean and Chapter, or of a Bishopric, may be taken away and transferred to other church uses, there was no reason why it might not be transferred to a stranger." The right hon. Member for the town of Cambridge (Mr. Rice) endeavoured to support this view of the matter by reference to the times of Henry 8th, and by a proposition brought forward by Mr. Orde, the Secretary of State in Ireland, which, however, had never passed into a law. Henry 8th was not so weak or so foolish as to seize on the goods of the Church. He only took the goods of the monasteries. This, however, was a lay appropriation, and, as matter of right, under the circumstances reverted to the Crown. This was quite clear from the case of the Abbey of Kendal and others. Despotic tyrant as Henry was there was another despotism still worse, that of a majority, who, though differing in everything else, countenanced each other in a
 860
 Mr. Ronayne  said, the whole Question resolved itself into this—if the Protestants of Ireland were reduced to 600, in place of 600,000, must the Establishment remain the same? It was surprising how opinions altered with circumstances. In a debate upon the Irish Church in 1824 would be found recorded the name of James Scarlett, the father of the hon. Member who last addressed the House. On his side of the House no language had been made use of disrespectful to the Protestant clergy as was then made use of by that hon. Member. He wished he could say the same of the Gentlemen on the other side. So far from this, the Member for Cumberland (Sir James Graham), whose speech had been lauded to the skies by the Ministerial press, thought fit to insult the Roman Catholic people of Ireland by saying that an unmarried clergyman must be an unholy one. Such
 861
 Sir John Beresford  said, that if the gallant Admiral had ever hoisted his flag out of the window of an inn, he would have found that the Navy would never think of saluting it. However the fact might be, he was quite sure of this, that Mr. Dawson had never hoisted, he might say, as improper flags as other people.
 An Hon. Member  rose to order. The debate was one of a personal nature, and and wholly unconnected with the Question before the House.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had stated, at a very early period of the evening, that the votes for which Government asked, connected with the Navy Estimates, were really indispensably necessary. He had received a letter from the Accountant of the Navy, the concluding paragraph of which he would take the liberty of reading, because in all probability many Gentlemen were then present who had not heard his previous statement. The Accountant said that many votes were extremely pressing, and, amongst the rest, the first payment of the wages of the artificers in his Majesty's dock and victualling yards would come due on the 10th inst., for which no supply had yet been granted. His noble Friend had promised to inquire into and answer the question relative to this circumstance with respect to the flag. It appeared to him that this question of the flag had perhaps been sufficiently discussed already; and he did submit that, considering the exigency of the public service, the matter had better be allowed to remain where it was at present.
 Captain Berkeley  quite agreed with the right hon. Baronet, and he would therefore conclude with one plain and simple question relative to another subject. Had any person been appointed to supersede Sir George Cockburn on the Jamaica station?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  must say that the delay which took place in consequence of the dissolution of the late Parliament was not the cause of the delay in passing the Estimates; the main cause was, that the Government, being limited in bringing forward votes of supply to two days in the week only—Monday and Friday—amendments had on each of those days been moved by hon. Gentlemen opposite, so that it was impossible to proceed with the supplies. Even on this very
 869
 Mr. Baring  said, that it was rather a novel doctrine to hear advanced in that House, that the Government should be blamed for not paying money which had not been voted by the House of Commons
 870
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn  stated that the Government had exerted itself to reduce the number of convicts in the dock-yards, and the number was much less than it had been for several years.
 Mr. Secretary Goulburn  replied, that the number of convicts sent out last year was upwards of 6,000. This was a much larger number than had been sentenced during that period, consequently the number of convicts in the hulks and dock-yards had been reduced.
 Mr. Lam  felt sorry to be obliged to state, that he had on that morning occasion to send a presentation of the Grand Jury of Middlesex to the Officers of a regiment in London, in consequence of a soldier, while in a state of intoxication, having drawn his side-arms and stabbed a person. He regretted that this was not a solitary instance which had
 876
 Mr. Law  remarked that the object he had in view in the observation he made was, not to impose any restraint on the discipline of the Army, but he thought that if the practice were continued the soldiers should be under the wholesome fear of sufficient punishment in cases where they made an improper use of their side-arms.
 General Sharpe  believed that the soldiers would consider themselves much more degraded by being placed on the tread-mill with felons, than by being flogged. He believed that any soldier, with proper feeling would prefer the latter punishment to the former; and he was satisfied that the discipline of the army would be much better preserved by it, as well as the character of the soldiers.
 Lord Ashley  said, that the question came so seldom before him that he was not prepared to answer it: but there was a return moved for by the hon. Member for Middlesex, which would shortly be on the Table, and which would show the exact state of the case.
 Lord Ashley  said, that it was most important that there should be no delay in passing this vote. He could assure the hon. and gallant Officer that there were at present fewer ships in ordinary than ever there had been before. In 1793, the number of line-of-battle ships in ordinary was 141; at the present time there were only 120, while in the year 1821 there were 160. The number of shipwrights employed in the dockyards in 1793 was 3,184; in 1821, 4,300, while the number now was only 2,560. Of the shipwrights, the number employed in 1793, in constructing new ships, was 1027, while the number at present so employed was 785.
 Lord Ashley  had great pleasure in answering his hon. Friend. Although the Admiralty had thought it right to delay the payment of certain accounts, yet it had not gone to the extent of dishonouring any bill. The Board having satisfied themselves that there was not any money in hand to meet the accounts delivered, they delayed drawing out the document which would be a warrant to the Treasurer of the Navy to pay those accounts.
 Lord Ashley  replied that Sir George
 868
 Lord Ashley  was understood to reply, that in consequence of the Government having no money in hand at the close of the financial year, the Admiralty had withheld their authority for the payment of certain demands until the money necessary for the purpose was at their command.
 Lord Ashley  said the hon. and gallant Admiral must be perfectly aware that, he had no opportunity of giving him an answer to his question. He had risen twice for that purpose, but had been unable to gain a hearing. The hon. and gallant Admiral had had the kindness to mention to him, two or three hours before, that he intended to put the question. He had had, however, no opportunity of making himself acquainted with the subject, for he had not since been enabled to leave the House. He assured him that he would inquire into the case, and when he had been enabled to ascertain the truth, the gallant Admiral should receive the fullest information. Personally, he knew nothing whatever upon the subject, because during the whole period he had been engaged in Dorsetshire on his own business.
 Major Beauclerk  stated that he was satisfied that nothing would raise the moral character of the English army so much as getting rid of the punishment of flogging.
 Mr. Aaron Chapman  hoped that the Government would never forget that the Navy was the best defence of the empire.
 Mr. Dottin  said that gentlemen on the other side should not forget the dinners that were given to promote Reform, and the election of Reformers. He recollected many large dinners given for such purposes, and he was certain that many persons subscribed to them who did not go to them. In fact, they were given to promote the Reform Bill.
 Mr. George F. Young  said, that if he had been aware of this discussion, he would have produced statements directly in the teeth of that read by the right hon. Baronet. He understood that ships built upon that plan sailed well in smooth water, but that in a heavy sea they were very uneasy.
 Mr. George F. Young  remarked, that the understanding was, that convicts should not be employed in the dock-yards. The system, when formerly alluded to in the House, had been universally reprobated, and the right hon. Baronet, then First Lord of the Admiralty, promised that the system should be discontinued.
 Mr. George F. Young,  in allusion to a subject to which he had referred on a former evening, hoped that the noble Lord opposite would pledge himself that Government would not build any more ships upon Captain Symonds's plan, until it was first ascertained by actual experiment that the plan was a good one. He objected, too, to the expensive mode in which every new surveyor of the navy was permitted to new-model ships on any plan which he might choose to adopt. He hoped that a uniform and fixed plan might be adopted.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  begged to ask the hon. and gallant Admiral, whether from his past experience he supposed that if in any instance an officer hoisted the Admiralty flag at an inn window, it would be saluted.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  was convinced that there was no country in Europe in which the troops in garrison behaved better than they did in this country. He had no doubt the statement of the hon. Member was true, as he had stated that he saw the occurrence, but he (Sir Henry Hardinge) was greatly surprised at it. He should strongly oppose abolishing the custom of allowing the troops to wear their side-arms.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  had not the slightest objection to the most severe punishment being inflicted in such cases as had been alluded to; and he trusted that if any case came before the learned Recorder, that he would treat it accordingly. When a soldier so far forgot his duty as to act in the way described, it was impossible to condemn his conduct too severely. He, for one, would never consent to withholding their side-arms from the soldiers.
 Sir Henry Hardinge : After what hafallen from the hon. and learned Gentle man he begged to observe, that it had ever been the custom in the British service for the soldiers to carry their side-arms, and he should be extremely sorry to see the day when it ceased. He was extremely sorry to hear of the case which had been alluded to by the learned Recorder.
 Mr. Labouchere,  under these circumstances, could not help expressing his regret that the noble Lord had not come down to the House, and stated distinctly that such an emergency existed. He was quite satisfied there would not have been the slightest obstruction placed in the way of a vote in order to meet the exigency. It was worthy of the consideration of Government, whether there should not be some new arrangement entered into, by which the financial year should be altered; because circumstances must often occur that would render it impossible for the House to pass the Estimates before the 1st of April.
 Mr. Labouchere  was anxious to ask the noble Lord whether he had any objection to mention what was the nature of the engagements which the Treasury had not discharged. He should hear with extreme regret that any Board of Admiralty would refuse to take upon itself the responsibility of preventing Navy Bills being dishonored, merely because a particular vote had not passed through a Committee of that House
 Mr. Barlow Hoy  expressed his opinion that the hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite could have been very little versed in contested elections, or he would have known that it was customary on such occasions to use flags of every description. He was prepared to maintain what he said. He had not only seen common flags in every-day-use, but even the Royal standard hoisted at elections; the fact was, that they were merely considered as ornaments. The hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite talked of misrepresentation. He did not think the charge came with a very good grace from that side of the House. The gallant Admiral himself had been pecu-
 867
 Mr. Kennedy  trusted that the attention of the proper authorities would be directed to the circumstance of soldiers wearing their side-arms. He had seen a few days ago a number of drunken soldiers, who drew their side-arms in the street, to the consternation of the passengers. The practice of allowing them to wear side-arms ought to be discontinued, as no advantage could arise from the custom, and much mischief might result from it.
 Mr. Fector  was surprised at the soreness of the hon. Gentleman opposite on so trifling a point, when some of them, particularly the hon. Member for Sandwich had been returned by menus of the Admiralty influence.
 Mr. Fector  said, that he for one would wish that there was more of proper influence used at elections. What he considered far worse than any thing hon. Gentlemen could state was the  bonâ fide
 Mr. Herries  stated, that the Commissioners who had been appointed to inquire into military punishments had not yet made any report; but they were proceeding in the inquiry with great care, and he had no doubt they would shortly make a satisfactory report. Of course the substitution of confinement for corporal punishment would come under their consideration, as indeed would the whole penal code for the army.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that the hon. Baronet (the Member for Bristol) had said that no bribery had been practised at the Bristol election, and he appealed in proof to the fact that no petition had been preferred against his return, though there had been
 836
 Mr. Roebuck  rose to put a question to the right hon. Baronet on the subject of the intended mediation. It had been promised when the question was brought forward by him, that a person should be sent out on the part of our Government as mediator between this country and Canada, whose character should be altogether free from all bias, affection, or partiality. Since then an appointment had been made in his opinion, not conformable with that pledge. Lord Amherst had been named as mediator. Now the Right Hon. Baronet did not, perhaps, know that this Nobleman was connected by marriage (being brother-in-law) with Mr. Haile, who was principal of a party in the colony, against which many of the complaints of the colonists were levelled.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, he entertained no such prejudice himself. He was, however, apprehensive the appointment of a relative of Mr. Haile might be productive of considerable discontent in the colony.
 Mr. Roebuck  would do so with great pleasure. It was a petition from inhabitants of the city of Bristol, complaining that great corruption and intimidation had been practised by certain persons at the last election for that city. It also stated that a society called "The Mechanics' Conservative Society" had been established there, and that the mechanics who became members of it had good meat and provisions sent to them for nothing. Of course the object of this society was to "conserve" the mechanics of Bristol, and to procure their services at future elections.
 834
 Mr. Roebuck  presented a Petition from a parish in the city of Bristol, complaining of bribery and corruption, and in favour of the ballot. The hon. Member moved that the petition be referred to the Intimidation Committee.
 Mr. Hume  stated, that he was most anxious to get rid of the disgraceful punishment of Hogging in the army, but he feared he should not succeed in doing so until there was a great alteration made in the mode of reward in the army.
 Mr. Hume  reminded the gallant Admiral that it often happened that soldiers, after being flogged, were unable to move from their beds for several weeks.
 Mr. Hume  asked whether all persons who were now sentenced to be transported for seven years were sent out to the Colonies? It was an advantage to get rid of them, and their services would be valuable in the Colonies.
 Mr. Hume  was astonished at the observation of the right hon. and gallant Officer. Did he mean to say that a practice could be justified by which the soldier, instead of being the guardian of the public, became an aggressor? It was no justification of the practice that it had existed for centuries. He was not such an admirer of the wisdom of our ancestors as to approve of a custom, merely because it had long existed. In his opinion no good could result from allowing the soldiers the constant use of their side-arms, and a change ought at once to take place.
 Mr. Hume  begged to ask the noble Lord whether any Navy bills had been refused payment at the public offices in consequence of the Navy Estimates not having been passed?
 Mr. Hume  said, it appeared to be very extraordinary that any Navy bills should be refused payment, and he considered the objection to paying them was a mere pretext for throwing blame on the Opposition side of the House for not allowing the Estimates to be passed; but the noble Lord knew perfectly well that no obstruction had been thrown in the way, but that every indulgence had been shown by the opposition to his Majesty's Government. It was not owing to him or his friends that the delay had taken place. The difficulty had arisen from the right hon. Baronet and those who acted with him in dissolving the late Parliament. The House was bound to notice the circumstance which the noble Lord had avowed, for this was the first time during the twenty years that he had been in Parliament that the public credit had been so dishonoured.
 Mr. Hume  said, that if he had acted as the right hon. Gentleman had alleged, he should only have been acting with perfect consistency. The only time in which he had deviated from his usual course had been during the present Session; and more especially upon the Navy Estimates, when he did not occupy five minutes of the time of the House. It was on the Army Estimates that he made the state-
 871 l.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  wished to be informed whether the mission of Lord Eliot to Spain was at all connected with any intention to support the pretensions of Don Carlos to the Spanish Crown.
 Sir Edward Codrington  had not thought it necessary to notice the charges which the hon. Gentleman opposite had thought proper to bring against him, but as the hon. Gentleman had made an attack upon him, he begged to give notice that he would move for a return of the proceedings of the court-martial on Captain Dickenson. He really did not know what motive or what feeling could have induced the hon. Gentleman to bring such charges forward.
 Sir Edward Codrington  had merely waited for an answer. Had he known that it was the noble Lord's intention to make any reply to his question, he should not, of course, have hurried him. He thought it a very important point; and considering that the House was going to other business without any explanation having been given, he had felt it his duty to put the question. He had now to say, that he did not think such an answer as they had received at all satisfactory. The question had not arisen yesterday—it had been before the public mind for some time. "I say," (continued the hon. and gallant Member), "that yon ought to have come here prepared with an answer. I say so fearlessly—it is an important point. We are not to be trifled with; the Admiralty is not to be trifled with, nor is the Admiralty flag. I ask Sir James Graham, the Member for Cumberland.—well, then, I ask the right hon. Member for Cumberland, if he be in his place, I ask him whether, wheu he was first Lord of the Admiralty, and hoisted the Admiralty flag, it was not treated with every possible respect; and whether that respect was not paid to the Board of Admiralty composed of a certain number of Lords of the Admiralty and their Secretaries? I ask the right hon. Baronet whether, as Secretary for the Admiralty, going down into the country for electioneering purposes, he would have hoisted that flag for the purpose of procuring the degree of respect and influence in the election which belongs to the Admiralty? I repeat this as a very important point, and I say, moreover, that unless we
 866
 Sir Edward Codrington  believed, if the hon. and gallant General looked to the Naval Instructions, he would find that the Navy were bound to salute that flag.
 Sir Edward Codrington  could not allow the Question to be so slurred over, as a professional man he felt bound to express his sentiments on the subject. He had been greatly misrepresented. The question was asked whether Mr. Dawson had hoisted the Amiralty flag for election purposes. He wished to know this, and he wished also to ask, if the fact should prove to be so, whether Mr. Dawson had the authority of the Admiralty for the course he had pursued? He waited for a distinct answer.
 Sir Edward Codrington  wished to be informed whether Mr. Dawson had authority to use the Admiralty flag for election purposes, at the late election for Devonport? That the flag had been used, and that a salute had been fired in honour of it, was unquestionable. The Admiralty flag was never hoisted in that town on ordinary occasions, but in the arsenal itself. It was very important that it should be known whether the Secretary for the Admiralty could constitute himself into the Admiralty, and hoist the Admiralty flag. He felt very strongly, as a professional man, that it was most important that the Admiralty flag should not be made an improper use of.
 Sir Edward Codrington  approved of Captain Symonds's plan, and denied that his ships did not sail well in a heavy sea.
 Sir Edward Codrington  was well aware however unpopular it might seem, that good soldiers were in favour of the continuance of the punishment. Something,
 875 l.,
 Sir Thomas Troubridge  had one other question to ask—with regard to the Chaplains in the Navy. He understood that there were a great number of chaplains on half-pay who were anxious to get employment, but still that new chaplains had been put upon the establishment. He begged to know if this was the case?
 Sir Thomas Troubridge  really did not understand the hon. Gentleman. Surely he did not allude to the last election!—surely the hon. Member did not mean to say, that he had been returned to that House at the last election by means of the influence of the Admiralty. He had had no such influence on his side, but every possible influence fair and unfair—fair and unfair, he repeated, and he wished the phrase to be so understood—was used against him by the Lord Warden and all parties concerned with him. He was surprised—perfectly astonished—at the charge which had just been made.
 Sir Thomas Troubridge  said, this was the most important vote of the whole Estimates, and required more discussion than it could now undergo. He must protest against the system which had gone on so many years of building new ships, and never using the ships we already possessed. It was an absurdity to keep up a naval force in order to cope with the whole world. It would be impossible to reduce the Estimates if they persisted in such a system. There were fifty or sixty vessels now building, while there were already too many ships in ordinary. He begged the House to give its attention to
 872
 Sir George Grey  observed, that nothing was further from his wish than a desire to fight election battles over again in that House. He felt hound, however to corroborate the statement made by his hon. Colleague, having resided during the whole election within a few yards of the place from which for a period of three weeks, if he remembered light, the Admiralty Hair had hung out. He was unwilling to make any remarks on the subject, but sitting next his hon. Friend, and hearing his statement disputed, he felt bound to say that there was no doubt whatever of the fact. What the explanation might be, when the noble Lord came down prepared to make it, he knew not; but this he knew, that the fact certainly was as he had just represented it.
 Mr. Henry Bulwer  said, that such acts of intimidation had not been confined to Westminster. They had also been resorted to in Marylebone. He would put it to the House whether it was in accordance with the constitution of the country, and more especially with the constitution of that House, that noblemen should take an open and active part with respect to the return of Members to Parliament. To him it appeared that such practices were highly unconstitutional, and called for the interference of the House to protect its rights and privileges.
 Sir James Graham  observed that, as the hon. Gentleman wished for a categorical answer, he would give it. He was not prepared for the discussion, but he happened to have in his hand a letter which he had received that day from Captain Cosby, who was with the experimental fleet in the Mediterranean. The letter stated that the writer had great pleasure in saying that the experiment had been most successful. In a fleet consisting of several vessels, in which the Endymion was the fastest sailing frigate, every day there had been signals given for the rate of sailing for the fleet, either together or alone, and the Vernon (the vessel built on Captain Symonds's plan) astonished them all, as she walked away from the other vessels as if they had been merchant ships. The manner in which she left them behind was like magic.
 Sir James Graham  said, that from the Revolution downwards there never had been so few ships in ordinary as at the present moment; but it was impossible that new ships should not be built to replace those which, in the course of time decayed.
 Sir James Graham  observed, that he had stated last year, when the subject was alluded to, that the Admiralty had discontinued the employment of convicts at Sheerness and Woolwich, and it was determined to proceed in reducing the number employed in the other yards. Of
 874
 Sir Richard Vyvyan  said, that what was stated in the petition with regard to the formation of the society in question was incorrect. That association was formed in 1831, immediately after the riots. It was called "The Mechanies' Operative Society.—[Mr.  Roebuck,
 Sir Richard Vyvyan  said, that as there was nothing special in the petition, he had no objection to its being referred to the Intimidation Committee. He had understood, however, from the hon. Member, that he had got a petition from Bristol with something in the way of specific allegations in it. Perhaps the hon. Member would present it now?
 Lord Mahon  said it was true that Lord Eliot had been sent out to Spain and it was for objects he would with great satisfaction explain. This Government had witnessed with deep concern the nature of the civil war now raging in Spain, and thought fit to send out Lord Eliot, charged particularly to attempt by all means to put an end to the carnage attendant on this war, by means of the massacre of prisoners, the execution of suspected persons, the burning of villages, and other frightful violences committed in the course of theconflict—The mission had nothing to do with placing Don Carlos on the Spanish throne, for Lord Eliot had not been sent out there but with the full approbation of the Ministers of Spain and the King of the French.
 Lord John Russell : The hon. Member asks whether I mean to communicate the resolution to the House of Lords, and he tells me that it is his opinion that it will not be adopted there. My answer is, that I do not propose to communicate the resolution to the House of Lords; but, I do not participate in the opinion he entertains that there is anything in the resolution, when presented in the shape of a legislative measure, that will not pass the House of Lords. I found my opinion upon the precedent which I quoted the other day as to the course the other House of Parliament adopted upon a very great question—a question which certainly disturbed and excited the religious feeling of the people of this kingdom more than any other that I remember—I mean the question usually known by the name of Catholic Emancipation. In the year 1828, after a resolution on that subject had been carried in this House, by a majority of six, it was determined to communicate it to the House of Lords. It was there moved by the Marquess of Lansdowne, and, without recollecting the precise numbers on each side, I believe it was rejected by a majority of forty votes. That result would have induced one to think that no Bill for Catholic Emancipation would be allowed to pass. History, however, informs us otherwise: it informs us that, in the following year, a Bill was proposed to the House of Lords, which had received the previous sanction of the Ministers of the Crown; and the measure being recommended by the Crown, it passed the House of Lords by a majority of ninety or one hundred votes. Therefore, with the leave of the hon. Member, I shall profit by that experience. I do not propose, in the first instance, to communicate the resolution; but I feel convinced that when we have obtained the sanction of the Crown to the proceeding of this House, the House of Lords will not refuse to pass a legislative measure which, in my opinion, will promote the security of the Church of Ireland and the peace of the whole empire.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said: This, I apprehend, is the main resolution which we shall be called upon to vote; it is, in fact, exactly the same that was adopted last night. As there is no rational ground to suppose that the change from a
 880
 Lord John Russell  then rose, for the purpose of proposing his resolution, "That it is the opinion of this House, that no measure upon the subject of tithes in Ireland can lead to a satisfactory and final adjustment, which does not embody the principle contained in the foregoing resolution." He said that, after having occupied the attention of the House lately on various occasions, he hoped it would not be necessary for him to enter into the subject to which his motion referred, at any great length upon the present occasion. Yet there were some considerations connected with it, which he felt bound to notice. After the House had declared, first by a Resolution in Committee, and then by assenting to the Report of that Committee—that any surplus which might remain of the revenues of the Irish Church, after providing fully for the spiritual instruction of its members, ought to be applied to the general education of all classes, he should think that it would be only aggravating the disappointment, and exciting the feelings of the people of Ireland, if they did content themselves during the present session with passing a Bill on the subject of tithes, which did not contain some provision embodying that declaration. After having thus proceeded, and after having thus naturally excited the hopes of the people of that country, the House ought to pass, as a legislative Act, some measure to that effect, as well as any other provision on the subject of tithes which they might think fit to adopt. Any one, who considered fairly the Question at issue on the present occasion, must see that it was a great question of principle on which the two sides of the House were opposed. The principle on which the late Government
 881 * * 882 883
 Lord John Russell  said, he would endeavour to answer the question which the right hon. Gentleman had addressed to him. His view in considering the subject was this—in parts of Limerick or Kerry, where there existed a great number of parishes containing no Protestants or only a very few, there would arise a surplus, in consequence of there being too many benefice.
 887
 Mr. Baring  said, that the practicable point was, whether there was a surplus or not, and surely if there were not, it never could be the intention of the House to make this merely a party question. He really thought it worth while first to ascertain if there were a surplus, as the noble Lord could not be conjuror enough to apply an imaginary surplus. Such an intention would be senseless and absurd, and contrary to the common sense of the House, which would vote the destruction of benefices when a report then before the House might show their funds were ineffectual. What was to prevent the noble Lord, supposing he were really honest in his view, that his Motion was not urged on to serve party purposes, or to put his antagonists in a position from which it would be impossible for them to escape, that it was simply to tranquillize Ireland and support the true interests of the Church Establishment—what was to prevent the noble Lord, he would ask, from waiting for the necessary information respecting the surplus? If these were the noble Lord's real objects, the only reasonable course he could adopt was, first, to ascertain what surplus or sinecure benefices could be taken away, and, secondly, what was the proper mode for the application of their proceeds. With respect to the noble Lord's statements he should beg to ask the noble Lord was the Tithe Bill to be framed or supported by him to contain distinct provisions for the temporary extinction of the several benefices to which he had alluded, in addition to a recognition of the general principle of the Resolution? Would it specify the circumstances or the period at which it became necessary to deprive the incumbents of their respective benefices, and take away the Protestant pastors from each parish? Surely in such a case, where not alone the interests of the Church, but the feelings of a whole people were concerned, it behoved the House to proceed cautiously, and, above all, not to attempt to legislate in entire ignorance of the subject which they
 888 889 Littleton? 890
 The Attorney General  said, that he had not before addressed the House upon this Question out of the respect and deference he entertained for the opinions of the many other Members, whose more en-
 910 911 912 'Delenda est Carthago.' s., 913 914
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : He did not know that he should have felt it necessary to say a word upon this occasion if, during almost the whole of the debate which had taken place that evening, it had not been assumed that the House was again discussing precisely the same question that had formed the subject of six previous nights' debate. He, however, apprehended that the question which had formed the subject of discussion during those six nights was, at an early period of the present evening, disposed of. The House having last night affirmed the Resolution of the noble Lord in Committee, he, that evening, on the Resolution being reported, considering that there was no probability that any variance of opinion would be expressed by the House from that which it had expressed in Committee, permitted the Report to pass without discussion and without a division. But the Resolution which the House was now called upon to affirm was this:—"That no measure upon the subject of tithes in Ireland can lead to a satisfactory and final adjustment which does not embody the foregoing Resolution." He had great objection to the form of the present Resolution, and to the precedent which it
 946 Cheers Cheers. Hear, hear." Hear, hear." vehement cheering for some minutes 947 Hear. Hear, hear!" Loud cheers. 948 Hear, hear!" Hear, hear!" Loud, and continued cheering. Great cheering Hear. 949 Hear, hear!" Hear," from the Opposition. Cheers. "Hear, hear!" 950 Cheers. 951 Cheers. Hear, hear!" from the Opposition. l. l. Hear, hear. 952 Laughter. Great cheering and laughter. Laughter. 953 Hear, hear! l. 954 "Hear! hear!" Hear! hear! 955 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 956 l  Hear, hear!" Cheers. loud cheers, Great cheering. "hear, hear!" Cheers 957
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : Length of time! there is no right which prescription has given laymen to their property, which it has not given in at least an equal degree to the Church [ Cheers "Hear, hear!" 958 "Hear, hear!" Cheers. l. l., l., l. l. l. Cheers from the Ministerial side of the House. l. 959 l. Hear, hear!" "Hear, hear!" Cheers from the Ministerial benches. Loud and prolonged cheering from the Ministerial benches. Cheers. 960 Hear, hear." Cheers. l. l.; l. l. s.; l. l. l. l. s. Cheers. 961 Great cheering. The pathos with which the right hon. Baronet read this short extract, produced a great effect upon the House. l. l 962 "Resolved, that a Committee be appointed with a view to Repeal the Civil and Political Disabilities which affect His Majesty's Roman Catholic subjects on account of their religion. "Resolved, that such Repeal be made with due regard to the inviolability of the Protestant religion and establishments. "Resolved, that these Resolutions do stand the sense of the Commons of the Imperial Parliament on the subject of Civil and Religious Liberty, and as such be laid before His Majesty. These Resolutions contain my sentiments; this is my testimentary dispositions,
 963
 Lord John Russell  said, that the system he contemplated was the same as that acted on by the National Board of Education established by his noble Friend (Lord Stanley) the Member for South Lancashire.
 Lord Francis Egerton  would venture to differ from the proposition before the House, and yet if he could persuade himself that its results would be such as its proposers had promised, he might support it even at the expense of sacrificing any consistency with the opinions he had formerly given on the subject. The noble Lord who had brought forward the Resolution had made allusions to Hampden, the great champion of a principle, and had told the House that in the present Resolution the principle was everything, and that the Resolution itself was nothing. He thanked the noble Lord for the candour of his explanation. The noble Lord had told the House that the Resolution was nothing, and he concurred with him in that opinion; and it was because the Resolution was nothing, and the principle everything, that he (Lord Frances Egerton) could not bring himself to forfeit his character for consistency by voting for the Motion. The noble Lord bore the character—and he bore it gracefully in many respects—the character of a leader of a formidable party: but when the noble Lord quitted that House other Gentlemen succeeded him in that office, and carried his doctrines much further than the noble Lord himself did. On the first night of the debate the noble Lord had been succeeded by the hon. Gentleman the Member for St. Alban's, who had pushed the principles of the noble Lord much further than they had been put in the opening speech. He had said that he valued the principle of the Motion because it would bring under the control of the State, and by which he meant the control of that House—that species of control which he specially valued, all corporate property and all abuses connected with public property in general. He would claim to himself the right of opposing the Bill on that very
 907 908
 Colonel Sibthorp , after remarking that he had no doubt the hon. Member for Derbyshire (Mr. Gisborne) entertained the expectation of inducing the right hon. Baronet to resign, and of placing himself in some very important situation, proceeded in the following words:—I am desirous to express my consternation at that—I will say—unconstitutional proceeding to which the noble Lord has lent his sanction. I think—at least I hope—that the noble Lord, on a future occasion—he who undertakes the Appropriation of the surplus property of the Church—will give us some opportunity of hearing from the same quarter a declaration that he means to leave Ireland in the possession of lay impropriators. I hope, when a Bill for the Reform of the English. Church is brought in, that we shall hear something of the House of Russell—of the House of Russell giving up their lay impropriations. I will not believe the sincerity of the noble Lord unless I see this take place. He will allow me also to say that I doubt his sincerity, because I believe him to entertain—to hold—I may say to be actuated by—the wish to turn out an honest Ministry, and bring in another, whose condemnation is well known in the public opinion of the liberal portion of the country. I am perfectly satisfied that the right hon. Gentleman below me will retain his post so long as a sense of honour will induce him to keep it; and I am satisfied that when he does leave it, he will carry with him the gratitude of one side of the House, and the overthrow of the other. This Question has already undergone considerable discussion; I have heard many arguments from this side of the House, but I have heard little more than  vox et preterea nihil 942
 Mr. Cayley  said, that he believed it would be found in the end that those who rung the alarm bell of the "Church in danger" rung with a very loud tongue, but with a very empty head. He did not think that a Bill sent up from that House, containing the appropriation clause, would be rejected by the House of Lords, for this reason, that the passing of such a Bill would be the only
 909
 Mr. Lucas  said, that an allusion had been made to him by the hon. and learned Sergeant opposite (Mr. Sergeant Perrin), he would beg leave to answer his remarks. The hon. and learned Sergeant had alluded to five parishes in the county of Monaghan, in which the landholders were principally Catholic, while there was but a small proportion of Protestant landholders, and in which there were large livings, and scarcely any resident rectors. He admitted that the statement was correct, and that it was not a state of things which he could approve of, but in this and in similar instances, the fault was not so much in the individual clergyman as in the system. The Irish Church, like all other human institutions, was in the course of centuries liable to imperfections. The hon. and learned Sergeant had said, that he would restrict the incomes of the clergy to a certain sum. In that he (Mr. Lucas) would go with the hon. and learned Gentleman, and he was convinced that, in saying so, he merely expressed the opinions of a large body of the Protestants of Ireland.
 Mr. Sinclair  said, I wish to know from the noble Lord whether it is his intention to move that the resolutions now brought up be communicated to the House of Lords. That House still constitutes a co-ordinate branch of the Legislature of this country, and no measure can become law without its concurrence. From the proceedings of that House with respect to a similar question, we have reason to suppose that a proposition like that upon the Table, whether presented in the shape of a Bill or in any other form, would be rejected there by at least as large a majority as that by which it was carried here. Unless one hundred new Peers were created for the purpose, I apprehend it would be impossible to carry through the three branches of the Legislature any means for the diversion of a portion of the Ecclesiastical Revenues of the Church of Ireland to secular purposes. It is therefore right that the matter should be brought to an issue, that we may ascertain whether the House of Lords is prepared to assent to such a proceeding. I cannot conceive, whatever Government may be in office, that it would be prepared to recommend his Majesty to create a hundred Peers in order to carry into effect a resolution regarding an imaginary surplus—I call it imaginary, because I am convinced that on inquiry it will turn out, like the Croker Mountains, to have no existence. Instead of a surplus, there may be found a deficiency; for the number of clergymen in Ireland, I contend, is inadequate to the duties they have to discharge; at least none of them can be dispensed with. I beg,
 879
 Mr. Sinclair  said, Sir, I am anxious to record my solemn protest against the Resolutions adopted by this House, which involves a flagrant encroachment on the temporalities of the Anglo-Irish Church—Resolutions which, in my opinion, are not only mischievous in their principle, but the sure harbingers of other measures more revolutionary and more destructive. The proceedings of this House, since the commencement of the Session, have, like many scenes in Shakspeare's plays, been ushered in by flourishes of drums and trumpets; in other words, belligerent notices of portentous import have, on almost every successive evening, been recorded in our books. Night after night has the gauntlet been thrown down by the noble Commander-in-chief of the Uultra-Whig Radical army, or by some of his subordinate coadjutors; but discretion has often constituted the better part of valour, and challenge has been followed by postponement. Even this proposition, although carried, ought not, I humby conceive, to be decisive of the fate of the Government, more especially as its adoption will be received with alarm and anxiety by an overwhelming majority of those who are truly attached to the Established Church, and who would contemplate the resignation of my right hon. Friend with dismay. The press, with a promptitude scarcely credible, and with an accuracy never surpassed, has by this time enabled the people in every district of the empire to sit in judgment on the tenor of these measures, and on the arguments by which they have been supported or opposed. The hon. Gentlemen opposite profess to be attached to the Church; but if the old adage of  noscitur a sociis 901 Laughter from the Opposition benches. "No, no." 902 "Oh, oh." 903 nil, 904 905 906
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, the Secretary for Ireland is right—he tells us that if the principle of the noble Lord is carried, that it will not be possible to carry the Tithe Bill; and if the principle is annexed to that Bill, that it will not be possible for Government to conduct the affairs of Ireland on their own principles; that is, upon what they please to call Protestant principles, which means ascendancy principles—which means Orange principles. Here he states two impossibilities, but he forgot the third impossibility—that impossibility which he admitted on bringing in his Tithe Bill—and that was the
 891 892 893 894 l. 1. l. l. l. s., l. s. l. s. l. l., l., l. l. 895 l. 896 897 898 899 Hâc fonte derivala clades in patriam populumque defluxit 900
 Sir Henry Hardinge  rose to make a few observations on what had fallen from the noble Lord, in reference to the provisions of the Bill which was about to be intro-
 884 885 l. l l. l. l l. l. l. l. 886
 Mr. Hardy  asked the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) whether the system of religious instruction he would wish to establish would be from the pure and unmutilated Scriptures?
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  rose and said, he would do his hon. and learned Friend who spoke last the justice to say that, from the hour he first knew him, he was consistent in his public conduct. He differed, however, very widely from him in many points, as well as upon this most important Question. He was glad to hear from him one important concession—the necessity of a Church Establishment. He doubted, however, whether there were not many on the other side of the House who would not make the same concession. His hon. and learned Friend therefore, as well as himself, were in duty bound to support the Established Church. Previous to the Union it was thought that, if it should pass, the Protestant Establishment could not be maintained in Ireland, the great majority of the people being Roman Catholics. One of the main arguments in support of that measure was, that after the Union the Established Church would be the religion of a majority of the empire, and that the Church of Ireland would thus be secured. This was the argument which mainly influenced the Protestants of Ireland to concur in the measure. The Church of Ireland could not possibly subsist long after a measure like the present passed into a law. They were now called on only for the appropriation of a surplus, but would not the hon. and learned Member for Dublin (Mr. O'Connell) make further demands hereafter? Would he be satisfied with this? That hon. and learned Member agreed to the remission of three-fifths of the tithes. In a letter which the hon. and learned Gentleman wrote to a friend in September, 1834, he said he accepted all he could get for the present, but would afterwards seek the remission of the whole. "I will take," said the hon. and learned Gentleman, "any instalment I can get." His hon. Friend who spoke last said, there would be a surplus of 130,000 l.; l. l.; l. 927 928 929
 Mr. Sergeant Perrin  spoke nearly as follows:—Sir—I am loth to obtrude upon the House at this stage of the debate; I am but too sensible of my own inefficiency to desire to do so at any time; yet, so strong is my conviction of the value of this resolution, and the importance to Ireland of the principle embodied in it, that at the hazard of exposing that inefficiency I must offer a few remarks upon the Question. I think we ought to adopt the resolution proposed by the noble Lord, the Member for Devonshire—it is an important step towards the improvement of Ireland, the moral and religious education of the whole people—it is essential to the tranquillity of that country, and it is eminently calculated to give increased and just efficiency to the Established Church there. [ Cheers from the Ministerial side. 915 l. l.; 916 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 917 l. l. l. l. 918 l. l. l.; l. l. l. l.; l. l  919 l. l., l. l. l., 920 921 l. l. l. l. l  l. "hear, hear, hear," l. l. l. l. l. l. Cheers." 922 923 l. à priori, l. à priori, 924 925 l.
 Mr. Bernal  brought up the Report of the Committee of the whole House on the Established Church of Ireland. On the question that it be read,
 Mr. Gisborne  said, that on the subject before the House he had always acted with the greatest impartiality, because it was his misfortune, generally, upon this subject to be opposed—he did not mean to Lord Melbourne's Government, for he had never had occasion to be so—but to the Governments which preceded that noble Lord's, in the same manner as he was to the present. He would, without making any exordium, go at once to the point on which he conceived the Question now to stand. The point between the two sides of the House appeared to him to be this—that, whereas, the Gentlemen on the Ministerial side of the House, together with the noble Lord (Stanley), and the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham), asserted that Tithes were, in fact, by reason of the mode of collection, the sole cause of the disturbances in Ireland, so far as related to Ecclesiastical matters, whilst they, on that (the Opposition) side of the House, asserted that they were not the sole cause of those disorders; but that the existence of the Irish Church as a Protestant Church Establishment, maintained solely for a small part only of the inhabitants of that country, contributed also, with the tithes to cause those disturbances.—That, he apprehended, was the point of
 930 931 932 933 934 Stanley 935 "When love could teach a Monarch to he wise, And Gospel light first dawn'd from Boleyn's eyes." 936 Cheers.
 Mr. Spring Rice  wished the House to inquire whether the right hon. Baronet had put the question on which they were about to decide upon its fair and just ground? He trusted that the House would allow him, in the first place, to justify the course which the Opposition had taken upon this occasion. It had been not merely charged upon them, that they had unduly precipitated this decision, but they had been reproached by the right hon. Baronet, with having gratuitously called upon the House to decide the question, in the absence of information which might have been obtained, and which the House ought to require. But they were driven to debate a question which was presented by the Ministers themselves at the very opening of the Session, so pointedly, that one of the earliest notices given was a notice on the subject of tithe by the Secretary for Ireland: but his noble Friend even before the right hon. Gentleman was in possession of the report of the Commissioners of Inquiry, had also given notice that he should move for the production of that report. He was then informed that the report was not forthcoming; still, so anxious was he for necessary information, that he said, "If we cannot have the report, let us have any preliminary information with which you can furnish us." This could not be produced, and his noble Friend only came forward with his motion, when he was compelled in consequence of the leave obtained by his right hon. and gallant friend the Secretary for Ireland, to bring in a Tithe Bill for Ireland, based upon principles, according to the statement then made, contrary to those of the resolution now adopted by the House. That right hon. gentleman might be perfectly certain that if the Opposition could have done so consistently with what they conceived their public duty, they should have been anxious to have delayed this dis-
 964 965 * * 966 967 Cheers, 968 969
 Mr. Hogg  contended that the arguments founded upon the fact that the Protestants formed but a small minority of the people of Ireland, if good for anything, would go the length of justifying a total abolition of that Church. In his opinion nothing could he more plain than that the supporters of the present proposition contemplated ulterior measures against the Church. If the enemies of Protestantism were once allowed to enter the breach, the House might rest, satisfied of this—that they would not retire without accomplishing all the objects of the attack—If the breach were once made, the defending party might most assuredly expect to live long enough to repent of the facility with which they appeared ready to make concessions. He was not an enemy to removing the abuses which in the course of ages had grown up in the Church. He should say, by all means reform the Church; but he would call upon them so to reform as not to impair the efficiency or destroy the unity of the Church; let them reform, but let them never do so upon hypocritical pretences, for he could scarcely designate the arguments used on the other side as anything else; fairly considered, they went the whole length of total abolition. He entreated the House to look at the avowals made by the supporters of the present resolution, and called upon them to say if they did not agree with him that the Church was in danger. He did not fear to repeat that cry, for he sincerely believed that the Church was in danger; and, after the resolution adopted by that House, he should say in imminent danger. If he possessed the power, he should willingly trumpet
 943 944 945
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, when the hon. Member who had just addressed the House, attributed all the insecurity and misery prevailing in Ireland to the existence of the Protestant Church in that country, the conclusion at which he arrived, that the adoption of the present Resolution was the only means to produce peace in that country, was most poor, lame, and impotent. Every one of the hon. Gentleman's arguments went not to the regulation, but to the total subversion of the Irish Church. Whereas, this Resolution was proposed by its mover under the pretence that it would secure and strengthen, rather than overthrow what he
 937 nuisance. 938 l. l. l. l. l. l. 939 l., l. 940 "That, hushed in grim repose expects its coming prey." 941
 An hon. Member , who had been one of the Members of the Canterbury Election Committee, stated that their decision had been an unanimous one; he had seen nothing of political bias amongst them, and for himself, he could answer that he had been influenced by none. He knew what an oath was, and he had acted in accordance with principle and common sense.
 Mr. Stephen R. Lushington  said, the hon. Member had called the decision of the Committee an unlawful one. Now, he would maintain that never was there one more in accordance with the evidence adduced. The validity of the return was the first thing for the Committee to decide. And what were the circumstances of the case? Eight votes tendered for him (Mr. Lushington) were rejected by the Sheriff, because the names of the parties were mis-spelt in the register, though they were perfectly good votes, and there was no doubt as to the identity of the persons. Mr. Villiers had thus a majority of two over him. The Committee, acting upon all former precedents, first proceeded to decide whether the return was true or false. They decided that it was false, and by adding those votes to the poll he had a majority. So far from the petitioners having any ground of complaint, he (Mr. Lushington) was the party that ought to complain, having been deprived by the returning officer of his right for two months and a half. The right hon. Member was understood to say that the allegations in the petition with reference to the conduct of the clergy were totally unfounded.
 An hon. Member  said, that if the Canterbury Committee had gone into the whole case, the grossest bribery would have been proved against the supporters of the hon. Member Mr. Lushington.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : It was his intention, to move that the Mutiny Bill should be read a third time, and in making that Motion, he wished to avail himself of the opportunity which it afforded him of notifying to the House that he, in conjunction with all his colleagues in his Majesty's Government, and in conformity with their unanimous opinion, had felt it incumbent upon them, upon a combined consideration of the vote to which the House of Commons had come last night, and of their position as a Government in that House, to signify to his Majesty, that they felt it to be their duty to place the offices which they held at the disposal of the King. He did not hesitate to say, that they had taken this course with the utmost reluctance, and not without the deepest conviction of its necessity. They felt, that being in possession of the entire confidence of the King, and having received from his Majesty the most cordial and unremitting support—looking to the present position of public affairs, to the present state of political parties—looking
 981 Cheers. much cheering from both sides of the House renewed cheering "Hear, hear.!" and much cheering, particularly from the Opposition. "Hear, hear!" Much cheering. "Hear, hear." 982 cheers "Hear, hear!" Much cheering. 983 "Hear, hear!" Cheers. 984 "hear, hear;" "hear, hear;" "Hear, hear!" from both sides of the House. "Hear, hear!" Great cheering from all parts of the House. 985 Immense cheering throughout the House, which continued for some minutes. "Hear, hear!" The right hon. Baronet, at the conclusion of his speech, was most enthusiastically cheered from all comers of the House for a considerable time.
 Lord John Russell  said, he wished only to state that he was perfectly satisfied with the course which the right hon. Gentleman had proposed for the convenience of public business, and that he believed there would be no objection to the adjournment. He did not wish to make any comment on what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, except to express his opinion that the right hon. Gentleman had acted entirely in the spirit of the Constitution.
 Mr. Charles Buller  said, he had now to present a petition from the city of Canterbury, complaining of the decision of the Election Committee lately appointed to inquire into the Election for that city. The petitioners prayed that so mischievous a decision might not be drawn into a precedent, which would be alike destructive to the rights of the petitioners and of the elective body in general; they also prayed that a new, more competent, and more satisfactory tribunal might be constituted for the decision of controverted Election cases. They complained that the Election Committees of that House were frequently influenced by political bias, and were oftentimes most incompetent to decide the points of Election Law laid before them. The hon. Member called the attention of the House to the extreme hardship to which the petitioners had been subjected by the incomplete decision come to by the Committee. One bad effect of it was, that the country was led to entertain the opinion (he did not mean to say a correct one) that political bias influenced Members in deciding in such cases. He would just mention
 978
 Mr. Charles Buller  had not impugned the decision of the Committee. He had only stated the opinion of the petitioners.
 Mr. Charles Buller  said, he had two Petitions to present from the city of Canterbury, one in reference to the interference of the clergy in the late Election there, and another complaining of the decision of the Select Committee in the case of the late Member for that city—Mr. Villiers. The first petition was similar to that which had a short time since been presented by the late Member, Mr. Villiers, to the House. The statements contained in that former petition had been contradicted by the right hon. Baronet (Sir E. Knatchbull), and the right hon. Baronet had asserted on a former occasion, that if the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Villiers) were himself then a Member of the House, he would admit that they were unfounded. It appeared, however, from the present petition, that the electors and inhabitants of Canterbury were still of opinion that those statements were perfectly correct. The petition was signed by 1,044 inhabitants of that city, who prayed that the House would appoint a Committee to inquire into the truth of those statements. He did not suppose that the House would appoint a Committee to inquire into an individual case of the kind, there being nothing so common or notorious all over the kingdom as the interference of clergy at Elections. If they inquired into one case of the kind, they would have to inquire into similar cases of improper interference on the part of the clergy at every Election throughout the kingdom where there was a liberal candidate to oppose. The interference of the clergy at Canterbury, the petitioners stated, was not merely confined to canvassing before the Election, but they had since the Election had recourse to a species of intimidation disgraceful to any set of men that adopted it, but more especially disgraceful to the ministers of religion. It was stated in the petition that the day after the Election a rev. Archdeacon discharged his butcher, because he voted according to his conscience; that another
 976
 Mr. Charles Buller  said, he had not at all impugned the motives of the Committee in coming to the decision that they did, he had merely stated the opinion on that point of the people of Canterbury. He would maintain, however, that the decision of the Committee, constituted a mischievous precedent. They should not have decided the return alone—they should have decided both the return and the election. He had, he confessed, no respect for the Grenville Act. It appeared to him one of the most stupid Acts that had ever been passed, and he should like to see it greatly altered. He would follow up the presentation of this petition by moving on a future day that no Election Committee should have the power in future of deciding on one part of the case without going into the whole of it.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that the question was not yet decided. His hon. friend (Mr. Buller) had moved for the minutes of the Committee, and the question as to their decision would be on a future day brought before the House.
 Mr. Winthrop Praed  complained that the
 977
 Mr. Spring Rice  deprecated such a discussion as this. If indeed they were prepared to abandon the Grenville Act, they might then discuss matters of this kind, but as long as Election Committees were authorized by law to decide on those cases, their decision should not be called in ques-
 979
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  had been anticipated by his right hon. Friend in what he had intended to say. The inconvenience of presenting petitions of this nature to the House, when the period allowed for petitioning against the return for Canterbury had not as yet expired. On the presentation of the former petition, he had assured the House that the allegation that the reverend Mr. Peel, the brother of the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer had interfered in the Election was unfounded. He now held in his hand a county paper, in which was advertised a letter from the individual who it had been alleged had been applied to by the right reverend Gentleman, in which the writer stated distinctly that the reverend Mr. Peel did not apply to him for his vote, and that neither intimidation nor anything else had been employed to induce him to vote for Mr. Lushington. The hon. Member should have inquired into the matter before he made the statement he did.
 Lord Sandon  must call the hon. Member to order. The case had been decided before the Committee, and the House was not now to discuss what would be proved before it. Was that House to become an arena where all elections were finally to be tried? The Grenville Act was thought to be the greatest step ever made towards rescuing the House from scenes so disgraceful to its character and dignity, but hon. Gentlemen opposite would now seek to draw the House through, the mire of con-
 980
 Mr. Shan  said, that the noble Lord (Lord Mandeville), after the understanding which had been come to, in consequence of the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had left the House under the full impression that it would not be possible
 992
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that before this Motion was put, he could, not refrain from calling the attention of the House to the course of proceeding adopted by a noble Member (Lord Mandeville) who, after giving notice of a Motion for last night, in which very serious charges were brought against a Member of the Upper House (the Earl of Gosford), had, without the slightest notice of postponement, or even intimating such an intention across the Table, thought proper to absent himself altogether from the House, and had that morning left town. He (Mr. Spring Rice) did not intend to go into the merits of the case, in the noble Member's absence, but he had thought it right to express his opinion, that, in thus neglecting, without even a verbal notice, to proceed with his Motion, the noble Member had been guilty of much discourtesy towards the House, and of extreme injustice towards the noble Lord, whose character was involved, and over whom this Motion had been kept hanging for some time past, without any opportunity having been given him or his friends of vindicating him.
 Viscount Acheson  did not see, that the complaint against the noble Lord was at all answered. What he had been justly found fault with for was, that, day after day, he had kept a Motion like this impending over a noble Earl who could not be present to defend himself, and that on the day when he had promised to bring it forward he had, without even the most indirect intimation of his intention to do so, altogether neglected to proceed with his motion, and left town.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said:—I have received an intimation from his Majesty, that arrangements for the formation of a new Government are in progress, but that they have not yet been finally completed. Under these circumstances, I cannot doubt that
 994
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said: Having had the honour of receiving an intimation similar to that which I received on Monday last, and on which I then proposed an adjournment of the House until this day, I now beg leave to make a similar Motion, and propose that this House, at its rising, do adjourn till Saturday.
 Lord John Russell  said, I feel it impossible for me to give at present a direct answer to the question put by the hon. Gentleman; and I likewise feel extreme difficulty in making any precise communication to the House. At the same time I am ready to own, that if any portion of the House desire information, it is my duty, so far as I can consistently with the duty I owe to the Crown as well as to the House, at once to make that communication. I have only therefore to state, that on the dissolution of the late Ministry his Majesty sent for Earl Grey, to request his advice on the state of public affairs. By the advice of my Lord Grey, his Majesty sent for Lords Melbourne and Lansdowne to consult with him, and have their opinion on the following day; and the result has been that various communications have since taken place between his
 996
 Mr. Sinclair  wished to know from the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) opposite, whether anything definite had yet been done towards the formation of a new Government? In the present aspect of public affairs, when so much anxiety existed in the public mind, it was absolutely necessary, and would be extremely satisfactory, to know how far the new Cabinet
 995
 Mr. Francis Baring , in moving the adjournment of the House, said, he was sorry to find the gallant Colonel (Colonel Sibthorp) ready to start any objection to it. If he thought that the same objection was entertained generally on the other side of the House, he should, without introducing any topics that could occasion a debate, feel it right to say, that the time proposed for the adjournment was only such as was absolutely necessary for the making the returns to the writs he had just moved. He would take, for instance, the case of his noble Friend, Lord Morpeth. In that case it was in the power of the Sheriff to make the writ not returnable till even after the day to which it was proposed that the House should adjourn. He did not say it was probable it would be so, but as the thing might happen, it was but fair to give a sufficiently long adjournment to meet any case of the kind, if it should arise. Besides, even if it should so occur that his noble Friend, and his other hon. Friends who had accepted office, should, after their return, have a day or two to themselves before meeting that House, he did not think that hon. Gentlemen opposite, who knew the extreme difficulty attendant upon the first entering into office, and making the arrangements, and determining as to the mode of carrying on the public business—he did not think, he repeated, that they would consider a delay of two or three days, under such circumstances, a very great one. There would not, in point of fact, be the slightest real delay in carrying on the public business in consequence of the proposed adjournment. In granting a somewhat long adjournment under such circumstances, the House would not be doing anything unusual. In the case of Mr. Canning, where a number of new writs had to be issued in consequence of a dissolution somewhat like that of the late Government, an adjournment for about a similar period was proposed, and granted for the same purpose—that of making the arrangements required by the accession of a new Government to office. He hoped, therefore, that no real objection would be taken by the House to the Motion with which he begged leave to conclude—that the House
 1007
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he could not quarrel with the observations of the gallant Colonel, they were delivered with so much good humour, and were, like everything that fell from him, couched in the language of gentlemanly politeness. But, in one point at least, he must differ with the gallant Colonel. They who sat on that (the Ministerial) side of the House, certainly had not such remarkable countenances as the gallant Colonel and his friends around him on the opposite benches. The hon. Members opposite had the advantage of him and his friends in that respect. He would not abate the gallant Colonel a single hair in point of good humour on that or any other occasion. It was pleasant to have those things discussed in good temper, and with the politeness which characterized the gallant Colonel. Elsewhere they might be treated in a different style, and with perfect impunity, too. Elsewhere men degraded by the Resolution of that House as unfit to hold office, might presume to talk of the Irish Representatives in a manner highly unbecoming any man, and exceedingly indecent on the part of the Member of an august assembly—an indecency that would be insufferable if it were not ridiculous. There was no creature, half idiot, half maniac, it would seem,
 1009
 Mr. Charles Buller , not seeing any of the late law officers of the crown present, begged to ask the right hon. gentleman opposite, if it was the intention of the Members of the late Government to go forward after the recess with an important bill they had introduced—he meant the Ecclesiastical Courts' Bill.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that he saw no reason in what had been stated by the hon. Gentleman why he should not persist in entering his sincere and humble protest against the proposition just made. The hon. Gentleman had stated truly, that those Gentlemen would require time for making their arrangements, but he would tell him that they would require, not three weeks, but as many months, before they would be what he called comfortable in their offices, and before they could enter and sit upon their new, and, as he trusted they would always be to them, thorny seats. Many months would elapse before that could take place, and he hoped in the meanwhile they would be obliged to give way to men who would afford more satisfaction to the country. When he looked at the gracious speech of his Majesty from the Throne, which promised so much relief to the agricultural interests,—when he looked also at the state of trade which was never so bad, for you could not go into the city of London without hearing continual complaints on the subject,—when he saw agriculture without hope, and trade without support,—when he looked forward to a renewal of the grand fructifying system of the right hon. Gentleman, the new President of the Board of Trade (but who, he hoped would not long occupy that office),—when he looked forward to the opening of the ports, and the inundating of the country with foreign corn,—when he saw those twenty-three Gentlemen now going to enter the lists like racing horses, but not like horses of true mettle, but like splintered, spavined, broken-winded racers, with not a single sound one amongst them,—when he saw such a state of things, when he saw the country in such a condition, he thought it was a hopeless case, and his sense of duty to his constituents and the public induced him to protest against a Motion in every respect so unjustifiable. When, too, he read the statements he did in the newspapers, he would not accuse any man of telling an untruth, but this he would say, that he never could, and that he never would, believe, that the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Mr. O'Connell) would have held up his hat the other evening,—would have put on those happy smiles, and that pleasing countenance he then assumed, and would have
 1008
 Mr. Sinclair  regretted, that the hon. and learned member had followed up his eulogium on politeness, and good humour, by a tissue of offensive personalities, on individuals not present to defend themselves.—He had always admired, and had himself long since adopted, the principle laid down by his learned Friend, of never being induced to sanction the practice of what the world calls, giving satisfaction.—But for that very reason, it was peculiarly incumbent upon both to avoid such expressions as could hurt the feelings of others, and lead them to seek that redress, which the assailant was determined not to grant. He had refrained from hazarding any remarks as to the new, or rather renovated, ministerial edifice, until the complete elevation stood before the public in all the stateliness of its outline, and in all the symmetry of its proportions. The three divisions of the empire had contributed their respective quotas, towards promoting its stability, and providing for its embellishment. It must be admitted that consummate discretion and admirable dexterity had been displayed, not only in the choice, but in the exclusion of certain materials: some hypocrites had expected to see the main building supported by a colossal column of basalt, from the Giant's Causeway.
 Mr. Sinclair  proceeded—He believed that if he dug a trench deep enough to reach the foundations, he would find the corner stone of the edifice so entirely composed of that substance, that, if this support were taken away, the whole would at once be laid prostrate on the earth.—The fabric of this late Government was now destroyed—What a number of anxious days and sleepless nights the prospect,
 1010 1011 1012
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, that the very reason which the hon. Member had given for asking him the question—namely, the absence of the late law officers of the Crown—prevented him, from being able to answer the question.
 Mr. Methuen  rose to order.—he could not see what the Giant's Causeway had to do with the Question before the House.—[ go on—go on
 Mr. Sheil  gave notice, that on the first day, on going into Committee of Supply, he would, move a resolution to this effect,—that no person who should hereafter be appointed to, and enter upon, an Ecclesiastical benefice in Ireland, shall be deemed to have a vested interest in it, entitling him to compensation in the event of its being suppressed.
 Sir R. Inglis  would also beg to give notice, that on the hon. member's making that motion, he (Sir R. Inglis) would move that the oath which the hon. Member had taken should be read.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  inquired whether it was the intention of the hon. Member for Oldham, to bring forward the Question of the repeal of the Poor Law Act? If the hon. Member did mean to do so, and fairly to take the opinion of the House upon it, he ought to refrain from any observations in deterioration of the measure on the presentation of a petition, an occasion upon which it was impossible the opinion of the House could be fairly taken on such a subject. He must say, it was not quite decorous so to treat an important Question, but he should not have troubled the House with any observation, except to guard against the possibility of his silence, and that of the Government, being construed into an acquiescence in the charge which had been made against the measure.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : I do not mean to complain that the hon. Member has not given notice of his intention to put these questions, but merely to account for any degree of unsatisfactoriness in my replies. I can have no other objection to answering him, but I will endeavour to do so explicitly. First—it is not intended that the appointments of the Commissioners should be permanent; the placing of the Great Seal in the hands of Commissioners itself appears to imply that it is only a provisional arrangement, although in some instances it has been continued for a considerable period. This answer involves the second question; if the appointments are not to be permanent, of course the present individuals cannot continue to hold the offices they at present fill. As to the third question, I have yet had no papers before me at the Treasury, to enable me to state distinctly what will be done. The Learned individuals have been charged with new duties, but unquestionably there will be no additional burden thrown upon the public. It is a subject for consideration how far fresh responsibilities require increased emoluments, and it is possible some part of the salary of Lord Chancellor may be so applied; but the point has not yet been brought under the notice of the Treasury. I should, perhaps, have been better informed had the hon. Member given me notice that he intended to put these questions.
 The Earl of Kerry , after a few prefatory observations, moved, pursuant to his notice, "that an humble address be presented to his Majesty, praying that he would be graciously pleased to give directions to the Irish Government to take such steps without delay as would appear to them advisable for the purpose of carrying into effect the measures recommended in the report of the Select Committee, appointed during the last session of Parliament to inquire into the state of the Navigation of the river Shannon."
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had been favourable to the proposition when out of office, and should not oppose it now that he was in the service of the Crown. He, however, thought that the motion might in its terms be amended, so as to be more consistent with the views of the Legislature. The motion in its present shape implied a grant of money, and therefore ought properly only to be made after the consent of the Crown had been obtained. The object might also be better defined, leaving it more generally to the Government to interfere. He suggested to his noble Friend the propriety of allowing his motion to be amended in such a way as would not pledge the house to a grant of money, but would leave the question open, to be brought forward by the Government in pursuance of the reports on the subject, the right hon. Gentleman concluded by moving an amendment to that effect.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said that there would be no economical objection to the proposition, if a clear case were made out in its favour. He hoped his noble Friend would see that it was better not to hurry the Government in its proceedings, especially as he (Mr. S. Rice) was willing to take on himself the responsibility of introducing a measure founded on the reports in question.
 The Earl of Kerry  had no objection to withdraw his Motion after the assurance offered by the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer. At the same time he begged it to he understood that he had no wish to take a large sum from the people of this country without requiring any contribution from Ireland towards the accomplishment of the object in question.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was understood to say, that the important object of the address before the House had been communicated to the Foreign-office, and he understood that with respect to it, no objection was entertained in that department. With regard to the recital of facts contained in the address, that had been compared with public documents, and found to be correct. Whether it be advisable or not to adopt a shorter
 1049
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  denied that he had given any sanction on the part of Government to the proposed address. He had not offered any objection to it, as it contained nothing but facts which had been previously stated in papers laid on the Table of that House.
 Major Beauclerk  wished to repeat a question he had before put to the hon. and learned Attorney-General. A question had arisen as to the power of the guardians of the poor, to separate in their workhouses the husband from the wife, and when he had before alleged that such power was given by the Poor Law Act, he had been contradicted by the hon. and learned Member for Bath. He now wished
 1027
 Mr. Lynch  thought that the noble Lord had obtained all he wanted in the promise of the right hon. Gentleman to bring forward a proposition founded on the reports after due investigation. He fully agreed with the right hon. Baronet opposite, that the proprietors on the proposed line should contribute to a plan by which they were to be benefited; but he also thought that the manufacturers of this country ought to
 1039
 Mr. Harvey : I beg to add that it was not at all my wish to embarrass the Government by putting thsee questions. If I found it was intended that the present
 1030
 Mr. Harvey  put three questions to the right hon. Gentleman on the Treasury Bench. First, whether it was intended that the present Commission of the Great Seal should be permanent? Second, if permanent, whether the present Learned persons were to be the Commissioners? Third, whether they were to receive any salaries?
 Mr. Fitzstephen French  said, I regret, Sir, that what has fallen from the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer renders it necessary for me to trespass on the House. Under ordinary circumstances, and in an ordinary case, I might have allowed the amendment that my right hon. Friend has proposed, to pass without a remark, but I feel the improvement of the river Shannon is a subject too important to be passed over with a vague resolution such as this. The interest of the United Kingdom demands that it should no longer be trifled with; some assurance ought to be given to us of the nature of the measure to be brought forward, and a definite time ought to be named within which such measure should be laid on the Table. The House must recollect three years have elapsed since the able and comprehensive reports of Mr. Rhodes on the state of this river have been before the public; the estimates of which these reports have been founded were submitted to the Board of Works in Dublin, and were examined into by a Committee of the House last Session; their accuracy was not nor could not be questioned by them—it is distinctly shewn the entire of this great river can be made available for commercial intercourse, the uncertain time of passage from Killaloe to Lough Allen now varying from a month to six weeks, reduced to the certainty of a daily one.
 1033 l. l. 1034 l. l., l. 1035 l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1036 1037
 Mr. George F. Young  said, that though he entertained a strong opinion in favour of all the statements which the hon. Member for Weymouth had made, and of all the inferences which he had drawn from them, he yet hoped that the House would be cautious in the mode of exercising its interference. On their decision of that night, might, perhaps at some future period, depend the question of peace or war. To be asked summarily to come to a resolution on a long statement of alleged facts, which nobody had heard before that evening, was not what he had been accustomed to in his Parliamentary experience. They were acting in a manner that must inevitably lead them into difficulties, and he hoped that his hon. Friend, the Member for Weymouth, notwithstanding the sanction given to his address by his Majesty's Government, would delay pressing the House to a decision upon it that evening.
 The Speaker  was understood to say that such observations were not consistent with the decorum usually observed in debate.
 Mr. Hume  hoped, that the right hon. Gentleman opposite would follow up what had been done by the late Government in the matter.
 Mr. Hume  said, that he, in common with every man in the House, most deeply deplored such occurrences as had taken place under the operation of the Poor Law Act, but as the hon. Member for Oldham had given notice of a day on which he would submit a motion with reference to the repeal of that measure, it was scarcely fair to prejudge, and condemn it on the incidental presentation of a petition. He (Mr. Hume) was as anxious as any man that the suffering portion of the poorer classes of the community should be relieved, and it was with that view that he had supported that Bill. He must repeat his dissent from prejudging a measure without discussion, but he would venture to state (from what had already been submitted to him) that proof would be afforded to the House, that the operation of the Bill wherever its provisions had been carried into effect had been beneficial; he therefore did hope, for the present at least, that neither the hon. Member for Oldham, nor any other person, would call it a barbarous Bill.
 Mr. Hume : I rise to ask the hon. Baronet opposite when the noble Lord who has been appointed to go to Canada is to proceed thither, and how far measures have been taken for the settlement of the differences in Lower Canada.
 Mr. Hume  entirely concurred in the propriety of expressing some strong and decided opinion on the absolute necessity of putting a stop to the Slave Trade: but he thought that the hon. Member would have effected his object better if he had avoided the use of language which might serve to irritate Foreign Powers. Besides, it should be recollected that those Powers were not the only parties who deserved blame; for, in his opinion, the Government of this country was liable to censure for not insisting on the execution of the treaties for the suppression of the Slave Trade. He thought it would be better that a motion embracing so many facts, and extended to so great a length, should be withdrawn; and that a short, decided, and firm resolution—a resolution which the House could not fail to understand and adopt, should be submitted in its stead. It was almost too much to expect the House suddenly, and upon the instant to agree to a motion which extended over not less than nine pages. At all events, he would recommend that it should be printed, and be suffered to stand over for a few days, so that hon. Members might have an opportunity of making themselves acquainted with it before they were called upon to adopt it. Whenever a proper time arrived for a discussion of the subject, he (Mr. Hume) should be prepared to state that the measure of Slave Emancipation adopted two years since by the British Legislature, had succeeded in several of the West-India islands to an extent far exceeding anything that could reasonably have been expected.
 Mr. Hume  wished, on the Petition from Glasgow for a Reform of the Scotch Universities, to put a question to the right hon. Baronet below him (Sir R. Peel), and also to the right hon. Gentleman opposite. A commission was issued by a former Government, of which the right hon. Baronet was a member, to inquire into the state of the Universities in Scotland. The Report of that Commission had been lying on the Table for five or six years, and, to the great regret of the people of Scotland, no notice had been taken of it by any Government during that period. Tie wished to know if any measure had been taken by the late Government with which the House was not acquainted on the subject, and if it were, the intention of right hon. Gentlemen opposite to bring it under discussion?
 Mr. Fowell Buxton , in bringing forward his promised Motion on the subject of the Slave Trade, observed, that no person who had not witnessed the atrocities of that abominable traffic could have an adequate conception of the crimes, miseries, and cruelties to which it gave rise. He requested the attention of the House to facts which he should lay before them from Parliamentary documents—facts that indicated the extent to which the Slave Trade was now carried on. He held in his hand a list of importations of slaves into the Brazils. The returns from the British Consuls from the 1st of January, 1829, to the 30th of June, 1830, a period of one year and a half, was as follows; viz.
 
 
 Slaves Ships. Died on passage 
 Para 779 6 30 
 Maranham 1,252 13 89 
 Pernambuco 8,079 26 308 
 Bahia 22,202 70 768 
 Rio de Janeiro 81,956 200 6,912 
 114,288 315 8,107 "Rio de Janeiro, June 17, 1833. Well known are the tricks resorted to by speculators, as sordid as they are criminal, to continue the disgraceful traffic in slaves, in spite of all the
 1040 Case of the Midas, "Havannah, July 17, 1829. "The mortality on board this brig has been
 1041 Case of the Fama da Cadiz,  alias "Havannah, July 31, 1829. "On the 22d inst. the long-expected privateer called the Fama da Cadiz came into port, having previously landed 300 slaves at Santa Cruz; it is said that this notorious slave trader and pirate was boarded by one of his Majesty's sloops on the coast of Africa, but liberated on account of having no slaves then actually on board; she afterwards plundered other slave vessels of about 980 slaves, and had scarcely sailed for this island with them, when the small-pox and other contagious diseases broke out, which reduced a crew of 167 to 06, and her slaves to about 300, of whom the greatest part are in so wretched a state, that her owners have been selling them as low as 100 dollars." Case of the Constancia. "Havannah, Sept. 30, 1829. "On the 21st inst. the Spanish schooner Constancia da Ferrer arrived in this port in ballast, after having landed 70 slaves on the coast. She is said to have left Africa with 438 negroes, who have been reduced by the small-pox to the above small number. The mortality on board the slave vessels this year has been truly shocking." Case of the Ricardo, "Havannah, Nov. 30, 1829. "On the 25th inst. arrived the brig Ricardo, D. M. Moran, master, which sailed from this
 1042 
 
 Vessels. Slaves. Emancipated. 
 Spanish 34 8,322 7,426 
 Portuguese 28 3,671 3,287 
 Netherlands 8 1,573 1,381 
 Brazilian 36 7,596 6,143 
 106 21,162 18,237 
 Emancipated 18,237 
 2,925 
 Left at Fernando Po, ill 161 
 Died between capture and adjudication. 2,764 State of the Maria. "Havannah, Jan. 25, 1831. "The Maria, being only 133 Spanish tons burden, and having on board, in addition to her slaves, forty seamen, making a total of 545 persons, gave the almost unprecedented small space of one ton for the accommodation of four souls, and the quantity of provisions, water, &c. required for their support, during a voyage probably of forty days to the Havannah." State of the Carolina, captured by the Isis, Captain Polkinghorne. "The effect produced upon all the gallant boarders by the miserable appearance of the slaves could only be alleviated by remembering that they were the means of their being rescued; but it was still very affecting. A vessel of only 75 Spanish tons was crammed with 350 human beings, 180 of whom were literally so stowed as to have barely sufficient height to hold themselves up when in a sitting posture. The poor creatures crowded round their deliverers, with their mouths open, and their tongues parched with thirst from want of water. They presented a perfect ghastly spectacle of human misery; ten of them died soon after. The crew of the vessel consisted of fourteen Spaniards, who were landed at Prince's Island." 1043 1044 l. "That an humble Address be presented to his Majesty, to thank his Majesty for his gracious condescension in having from time to time, been pleased to communicate to this House the 'Correspondence of his Majesty's Government with foreign powers,' and 'with the British Commissioners, relating to the slave trade.' "That this House has considered these documents with the attention they claimed, and has learnt from them with feelings of astonishment, grief, and indignation, that the traffic in slaves not only still continues to be carried on to an enormous extent, but that it is attended with circumstances of increased and aggravated cruelty, and that too under the flags of some of those nations who were parties to the Declaration made by the Congress of
 1045 "That notwithstanding this Declaration was solemnly agreed to by all the Great Powers of Europe in Congress assembled, and by them formally promulgated in the face of the world, this House has since been called upon to witness some of those very Powers afford it the protection of their flags, by refusing to adopt effectual measures for its suppression, although repeatedly urged to do so by his Majesty's Government, whose representations and arguments have been forcibly reiterated by his Majesty's representatives resident at their respective Courts; and that, although his Majesty has entered into treaties and conventions with these Powers for the suppression of this execrable traffic, in consequence of which certain laws have been enacted and edicts issued; yet these laws and edicts, for want of efficient means having been adopted to give them practical effect, have remained inoperative; and this House has learnt with surprise from the correspondence laid before it by his Majesty, that when this fact had been represented by his Majesty's Government, his Majesty's representations and remonstrances have either been neglected altogether, or met by promises, which subsequent events have proved were mere pretexts for delay, alike discreditable to the Governments who made them, and insulting to the Monarch to whom they were addressed. In this expression of its opinion and feelings, this House has particularly in its view the conduct of the Courts of Spain and of Portugal, who are bound by formal and solemn treaties with his Majesty totally to abolish the Slave Trade, so far as their subjects and the use of their flags are concerned, and who for this purpose have actually received money by votes of this House to the amount of seven hundred thousand pounds sterling, and the remission of a debt to the amount of six hundred thousand pounds more, which were granted on the faith of those very treaties, which these Governments are nevertheless so far from carrying into effect, that, on the contrary, they allow their flags to be degraded by covering the largest portion of this infamous traffic in the blood and sinew of of their fellow-men, as is fully proved by the documents his Majesty has communicated to this House. 1046 "That this House, therefore, humbly and earnestly beseeches his Majesty to call imperatively upon the Courts of Spain and Portugal to act upon the declaration of Vienna to which they were parties, and immediately to fulfil in good faith the treaties they have respectively entered into with his Majesty for the entire suppression of this trade; and this House further implores his Majesty, should his Majesty still find that these Powers hesitate to act up to the spirit and to the letter of their solemn engagements, to refuse to enter into any treaty or convention with them for any other purpose whatever. "That although this House has seen, with deep regret, that down to a late period the trade in slaves has been carried on to a considerable extent under the flag of France, still this House views with satisfaction the success which has attended the measures its Government has adopted for its suppression; and this House congratulates his Majesty on the completion of a treaty, conceding the mutual right of search, to which, at one period, almost insuperable objections on the part of France seemed to exist. But although this House acknowledges with gratitude his Majesty's exertions in effecting so much, still this House humbly represents to his Majesty, that much yet remains to be done to complete the total annihilation of the trade carried on under the protection of the French flag. And this House looking to what has already been effected, is confidently led to hope that the recommendation by his Majesty of further measures, having for their sole object the total suppression of this trade, alike condemned by both nations, will find ready acceptance by the Government of France, particularly as the interests of its subjects are now represented to be no longer involved therein. And this House, therefore, humbly suggests to his Majesty, that great advantage to the cause of humanity would be gained by inducing France to consent to an extension of the limits of the mutual right of search already agreed upon, to the whole line of the coast of Africa, and to that of the Island of Madagascar: and this House indulges the hope that his Majesty may be pleased to avail himself of the opportunity which the pending negotiation for a treaty of commerce with France presents, to gain, not only the consent of her Government to this important alteration, but also to join Great Britain, the United States of America, and the Brazils, in the measure they have already taken of declaring the trade to be piracy. "That this House has observed with grief, that an immense traffic in slaves has been carried on under the flags of other nations, notwithstanding his Majesty's unceasing exertions in negotiating with their respective Governments in the hope of inducing them to carry into effect their own solemn engagements for its effectual suppression; and this House feels deeply humiliated by a sense of the comparatively small success which has
 1047 "That this House, with a view to the attainment of this just and humane object, humbly beseeches his Majesty to revise, with his allies, all the treaties which they have respectively entered into with his Majesty, having for their object the suppression of this traffic, in order to reduce the terms and stipulations contained therein; which at present vary greatly from each other, into one solemn league between all the contracting Powers, and to introduce into this general treaty, first, an extension of the limit to the right of search, to the whole of the western coast of Africa, and between degrees on the eastern coast of the same continent; and an agreement that this right of search shall be allowed, not only as between each particular country and his Majesty, but be extended to a reciprocal right of search between all the contracting parties. Secondly, that the right of seizure shall be extended to vessels equipped for the purposes of trading in slaves, although not actually having slaves on board. Thirdly, an agreement that all such vessels as may be condemned by the Mixed Commission Courts, shall forthwith be broken up, or otherwise effectually destroyed; and, Fourthly, a stipulation that the trade in slaves shall be declared to be piracy. "That this House cannot conclude this Address to his Majesty without humbly soliciting his Majesty to consider whether those Sovereigns, whose flags have not been degraded by having been engaged in this cruel traffic, but who were assembled in Congress at Vienna, may not be called upon, in virtue of their having joined in the declaration there made to co-operate with his Majesty in en-
 1048
 Mr. F. Buxton  concurred with the hon. gentlemen opposite, in thinking the address too long. He knew that the attention of Parliament had not been drawn to the subject, and that it was therefore necessary either to include in the address, or to exclude from it all the premises upon which it was founded. He had, therefore, determined to introduce them into the address, for the purpose of reviving the recollection of them. If he had confined himself to a short address, it must have been to this effect—that the House requested His Majesty to take certain measures, and that the House would support him in those measures to obtain redress. His original object had been altered by obtaining information that certain negotiations were still pending with Foreign Powers, and he felt that he ought not to use towards them in such contingencies, any language that might be deemed uncourteous. He wished it, however, to be understood, that if any thing like past trifling were persisted in, he should call on the House to take measures, to put down the abomination which
 1051
 Mr. Cobbett  contended that until they could prevail on the Government of the United States to grant the right of search they never could put an end to the traffic in slaves. He objected to the length of the address, Nine pages of address car-
 1050
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that he had given notice of his intention to move for the repeal of the Poor Law Bill for Thursday next. He should, however, defer it until the Government had some chance of being more firmly settled than they were at present, and he therefore now gave notice
 1028
 Mr. Cobbett  presented Petitions from High Wycombe, and another place for the repeal of the Poor Law Bill. Referring to the statement contained in one of those petitions, he said that it
 1026 l.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, if he had trespassed upon decorum, he hoped that this was a case where it might be excused. If he had so offended in any matter relating to himself, the insult would have been unpardonable. Reverting to the Poor Law Act, he charged the House with having adopted its monstrous provisions without inquiry or consideration. He had also petitions of the same kind from Yarmouth; but notwithstanding the circumstances were pressing, he feared he should not be able to bring forward the motion, of which he had given notice for the day after to-morrow.
 Mr. Ewart  said, that his constituents and himself were justified in the support of the proposition. The importation of Irish corn, to which this plan would give increased facilities, was of great advantage to the consumer, inasmuch as it reduced the price, in the market of the English corn. He gave the motion his most cordial support, under the conviction
 1032
 Mr. William Smith O'Brien  said, that as Representative of a county which was particularly interested in the navigation of the Shannon, he felt it his duty to bear his testimony as well to the great capabilities of that noble river, as to its present neglected condition. At present all trade between Limerick and the Upper Shannon, stopped at Athlone, although, at a trifling expense, more than 140 miles of navigation above Limerick might be rendered available to the purposes of trade; and it was in evidence that the inhabitants residing upon the banks of Lough Allen would be able, if the navigation of the river were opened, to procure all the commodities required for their consumption, such as timber, iron-plate, &c, at a cheaper rate from Limerick than they were now able to obtain them elsewhere. He was rejoiced to hear, that the Government intended to take up this great national improvement. This boon to Ireland was an auspicious commencement of their ministerial undertakings; but he hoped that they would not confine their attention merely to the improvement of the
 1031
 Sir Frederick Trench  supported the motion, contending that the improvement of the navigation of the Shannon would introduce the arts of civilized life among the Irish, and open a new market for manufactures, would be of more importance to Ireland than whole volumes of legislation.
 Sir George Grey : I have to inform the hon. Member for Middlesex that the first subject which occupied the attention of the present Government, after accepting office, was the condition of Canada, and the interest regarding it was increased by the arrival of dispatches, a few days after the appointment of the Ministry, which did not give a more favourable representation of the state of affairs, but rather the contrary. The Cabinet took into its view the instructions proposed to be given by Lord Aberdeen to Lord Amherst, the intended Commissioner, but it was thought, in the first place, that the personal position of Lord Aylmer with relation to the House of Assembly was such, without prejudging the question, and not indeed having sufficient information to enable them to decide upon it, that it would oppose a barrier to the settlement of the matters in dispute. This barrier would exist, whether Lord Aylmer continued Governor, or resumed that office after the departure of Lord Amherst. The Crown was, therefore, advised to remove Lord Aylmer; and then arose the question upon the Commission—whether the object in view could best be attained by the appointment of one Commissioner or of several—whether it would not be fit that some assistance should be afforded to Lord Amherst—and whether one or more Commissioners could not be advantageously employed in inquiring into the state of the provinces, and in reporting to the Chief Commissioner. Ministers decided that the latter would be the better course for obtaining satisfactory information for the speedy and final settlement of the points in dispute. Having arrived at this conclusion, they invited Lord Amherst to become the head of the Commission, thinking that his appointment would tend greatly to the advantage of the public service; but his Lordship, feeling that the investigation would occupy a larger portion of time than was originally con-
 1029
 The Attorney-General  said it was impossible for him to give a correct answer to such a question without notice.
 Sir Robert Peel  did not understand what public object was to be gained by pressing the noble Lord's Motion, especially after the assurance on the part of the Government that they would take into consideration the reports which had been made on the subject, an assurance which ought to satisfy the supporters of the proposition. To say the least, it was unusual to address the Crown to direct the Government to do that which the Government had already undertaken to do. This would certainly be an anomalous proceeding. If an opinion was to be implied by concurring in the Motion, let the House have the papers and sufficient information before it, in order to form a correct judgment, before expressing an opinion on the subject. He thought, however, that in the
 1038
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the late Government had adopted no measure on the subject referred to. They had however, proceeded to take the Report of the Commissioners into consideration, and they had intended in a great degree to adopt their suggestions. It would be necessary, however that some assistance should be provided by the Legislature towards effecting the proposed improvement.
 Lord Sandon  was understood to express a hope that the Government would carefully consider the various reports which had been made on this subject before they did anything in the matter.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said that a great mistake seemed to be enter-
 1056
 Mr. Praed  observed that he had no intention of opposing the Motion, but, while saying so, he thought it incumbent on him to state that the late Government would not, had they been in power, have taken the course which he understood the present were about to sanction, namely, that of acceding to the Motion of the hon. Member. As far as he had been able to investigate the subject, his opinion was that the Motion could not, consistently with the interpretation of the Act, be acceded to; and he confessed he should be very glad to hear from the hon.
 1060 1061
 Sir John Hobhouse  did not hesitate to say that he as yet had not made up his mind as to whether any compensation whatever ought to have been granted to the Company's maritime officers. But that question having been determined upon by the tribunal to whose decision it was left by the Act of Parliament, the question was, whether or not the limitation laid down by the Court of Directors did not require some revision? The hon. and learned Member who spoke last seemed to say, that the two months allowed by the Act having expired, the case was taken out of the jurisdiction of the House. But, surely, it would be acting unfairly towards the petitioners to say that an adjournment, rendered unavoidable by political events, should place the petitioners in a worse situation than they otherwise would have been in. He would give his vote for the Motion, not as the head of the Board of Control, but as an individual Member of the House. He should be glad to see the whole question as to whether any compensation whatever should be given, opened by the Committee. But, considering that question already decided, he feared they could do no more than consider whether the scale of the Directors might be enlarged. He thought it would have been a great deal better had the Court of Proprietors included all who had served the Company in one graduated scale, so that each, according
 1062
 Mr. G. F. Young  in allusion to an observation made by the hon. and learned Member for Yarmouth, begged to observe that the House was not now legislating for the Indian people alone, inasmuch as if the territorial revenues of India failed in producing adequate funds to meet these compensation claims, the proprietors of East-India Stock would be liable to them.
 Mr. Carruthers  protested against the case of those officers whose claims had been decided upon by the Court of Directors being interfered with by the Committee.
 Mr. Stewart Mackenzie  declared his intention of opposing the appointment of any Committee which should have power to enter into the question as to whether compensation should or should not be granted to the Company's maritime officers. That was settled by the resolution of the Directors, and could not with any justice be re-opened by the Committee. If a Committee were at all appointed, it ought to be on the understanding that their deliberations should be directed to the cases of those officers whose names were contained in the petition.
 Mr. Clay  would support the Motion, on the ground that great injustice had been done by the rule laid down by the Court of Directors.
 Mr. Robinson,  in reply, observed that all he sought from the appointment of a Committee was, to prove that the rule laid down by the Court of Directors had an arbitrary and partial effect, and that many officers who under it would be excluded from any compensation had equal, and in many instances more, claim than those for whose advantage it was framed. Neither the people in England nor in India had any interest in an unfair distribution of the money. It was desirable that the money should be distributed only according to the extent and nature of the different claims. He did not wish, in the event of the Committee being appointed, and from the feeling displayed in the House he was pleased to see that it looked favourably upon such appointment, that any case should be decided upon unless the claims were made evident. Many of those officers who were afloat on the 28th of August, 1828, were by the lapse of a few weeks accidentally thrown out. If the Committee should determine that
 1063
 Mr. Alderman Wood,  in moving the second reading of the Public Carriages'
 1058 pro formâ, pro formâ,
 Mr. Cresset Pelham,  entered his protest against the Bill, as an impartial man, although it might to some appear intrusive to say so. He represented a great number of persons deeply interested in this momentous question, and they and he believed the measure to have originated in a contrivance between the Crown and a party. He thought that the interference of the Crown, on all such occasions, ought to be viewed with jealousy. The Committee of the House ought to employ itself in obtaining information, and not to rest satisfied with the dictation of any Commission. No evidence, had been taken by the Committee from any part of the kingdom; yet there were many persons who contended that they would be most seriously aggrieved by the passing of the Bill. They ought to have justice—at least the justice of being heard upon matters which they so well understood.
 Major Beauclerk  said, he was sorry he did not see the learned Gentleman (the Attorney General) in his place, as it was his intention to again put that question to him to-night which the learned Gentleman had last evening declined to answer, without consideration, as to whether this power was conferred by and exercised under the Poor Law. The statement which he had now heard, and indeed the intelligence which he had received upon the subject from various quarters, had made him come to a determination, if the Hon. Gentleman who had presented this Petition should not do so, and the Attorney General declared that such was the provisions of the Bill, either to introduce a declaratory measure, or to move that the clause in question be altogether expunged from the act, considering it derogatory to the character of the House, and productive of harsh oppression to the poor. He was one of a small minority in that House who, when the Bill was passing through it, endeavoured, but unsuccessfully, to have the doubtful clause omitted from it. He afterwards heard that the House of Lords had expunged the clause, and he was happy to learn that that was the case. He was now, however, told that it was not so, and indeed he had learned with astonishment, that on all sides throughout the country this power was attempted to be exercised over the people of England. He, as an Englishman, must protest against it. He would never agree that so arbitrary and so unjust a power should be exercised towards the lower classes in this country. This was no party, no Whig or Tory, Question. It was Sir Robert Inglis that moved the Amendment last Session, for which he (Major Beauclerk) voted, for omitting this power in the Bill. The power of dividing an honest man from his wife and children was one that should not be intrusted to any man or set of men. He trusted that the House would reconsider this Act, and would expunge this clause from it.
 Mr. Carruthers  begged to inform the right hon. Baronet and the House, that that Committee received no evidence whatever. In his opinion it would have been more wise if the Committee had called before them practical and experienced men acquainted with the commerce of the country to give evidence upon this very important subject.
 Mr. Robinson  said, that all the trading community of this country asked of the Legislature, when it abolished those powers to which personally he was friendly, was, that care would be taken to preserve to them some means of recovering their debts in the best manner it could contrive. He rejoiced that the Bill was to be sent to a Committee up-stairs, and he was also happy to hear that the Attorney General had manifested a disposition to attend to every suggestion that might be made upon the subject. Under such circumstances, and especially as every petition which had been presented upon the subject would be referred to the Committee, before whom the fullest investigation would take place, he thought all discussion at present would be perfectly useless. He only regretted that the Committee could not, according to the usages of the House, receive parol evidence upon the matter; he, however,
 1057
 Mr. George F. Young  said, that the public loudly and almost universally called for some measure of this description. The principle was admitted, and the details might be agreed upon hereafter. He hoped the House would concur in the second reading; of the Bill.
 Mr. Warburton  thought, that if the hon. Alderman had given notice of his intention to move the appointment of a Select Committee to consider the Bill, with power to call for persons, papers, and records, no objection would then have been made to the proposal. With regard to the measure itself, he objected to that which was its main object—to delegate the power of legislating with respect to public vehicles exclusively to the Lord Mayor, Aldermen, and Police Magistrates.
 The Speaker  called the attention of the House to the course intended to be taken by the hon. Alderman with regard to the present Bill. The House had for certain stated reasons permitted the Bill to be introduced, and to be read a first time; and it was now proposed, after reading the Bill a second time, to refer it to a Committee up stairs, and to give that Committee the power of hearing evidence, with the view, it would seem, of establishing a new ground for the Bill, different from that on account of which the House had consented to its introduction. Such a course was at variance with the usual practice, and if permitted, might obviously lead to great inconvenience.
 The Speaker  remarked that he had been led to make the observations which he had offered to the House in order that the hon. Alderman might at the earliest moment be made aware of the course which it was in his power to pursue. The question now before the House was, whether this Bill should be read a second time.
 Mr. Walter  said, he had to present a Petition from several persons of highly respectable character, and thoroughly acquainted with the subject on which they addressed the House, in Newbury and its vicinity, praying for the repeal of the New Poor Law Bill. He said, that having opposed that Bill in every stage, he should on the present occasion only state the opinions of his constituents respecting its operation. The petitioners lamented that the late Parliament, instead of endeavouring to raise the condition of the labouring population, should have devised the means of depressing them, and depriving them of their property, with the professed view of reducing the poor-rate, which rate, however had only increased with the increase of taxation generally; and they confirmed their statement by a variety of tables and estimates. They complained of the expense of building workhouses. He believed they were justified by experience in the view which they took of that subject. This grand project of the Commissioners, which they were now trying to introduce wherever they could venture, was an old project revived, but which had also been very justly exploded on account of the immorality as well as oppression and expense which generally attended it. Sir Frederick Eden had pointed out numerous instances of this in his valuable work. On the subject of separating a man from his wife, and children from their parents, the hon. Member observed, that it had been lately asserted in another place, by a high legal authority, that no such violation of the laws of nature and of God were ever even contemplated. It had been asserted by the eminent authority in question, that "no one ever entertained the intention, or indulged a dream or imagination, of such a thing—there had been no talk of separating husband from wife, or parent from child. Undoubtedly, hospitals would be established in the new union workhouses, and the sound would not be shut up with the sick, as heretofore: this was all the separation that could be contemplated. But no child of an age to require nurture or parental care would be separated from its parent—no husband and wife be parted. The idea of such a proceeding, he would
 1053
 Mr. Hume  was sorry the Attorney General was not in his place, as he could confirm the statement which he would make. The fact was, that a Commission had been taking evidence on the subject for the last two years; and he for one, when the Select Committee was appointed, considered there was no necessity for taking further evidence upon the matter. He was inclined to say, however, from what had since occurred, that as there were many individuals, both in the metropolis and other parts of the country, who thought they had not been heard, and who imagined they could give new and important evidence, they should get an opportunity of communicating it. He was sure that the object of the Bill would be forwarded by thus yielding to their demands.
 Sir Frederick Pollock,  as one of the Commissioners by whom the Abolition of Imprisonment for Debt in certain cases had been recommended, might be excused for saying a word on the present occasion. Although he had been one of the majority of the Commissioners who had been adverse to the continuance of the present system, yet he must admit, a very large body of evidence had been submitted to them, the tendency of which was unfavourable to the views he then, and still entertained upon the subject, and therefore he must say, that he was indisposed to legislate hastily or rashly, or without the fullest inquiry and investigation. To some of the details of the present Bill there existed, in his judgment, insuperable objections, and he should be sorry that it should be urged forward without affording every member of the community, whose interests were likely to be even remotely affected by it, the fullest opportunity of either pointing out the advantages of the present system, or the evils which would be likely to result from the change. He had heard with much pleasure from the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that after the Bill had been recommitted, the House itself would be enabled to examine it in detail. He should regret if, after all he had seen of the measure, it did not undergo the most complete investigation. To the same scrutiny he was willing to submit the Report of the Commissioners, (and the recommendations therein contained) to which he as one of the Commissioners had been a party, though he would not give up any single opinion expressed in that report. All he hoped was, that protection would be afforded to the honest debtor, and at the same time the creditor would be secured every means of obtaining that justice which he had a right to expect.
 Mr. Jervis  conceived the point noticed by the Speaker to be one of great importance, as regarded the practice of the House. If the principles or facts on which the Bill was founded were in any degree doubtful, then the course which the hon. Alderman ought to adopt was, in the first place, to withdraw the present Bill entirely; then to propose the appointment of a Committee to consider the sub-
 1059
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he had to present a numerously and respectably signed Petition from the merchants, traders, and others, residing in the city and liberty of Westminster, against the Imprisonment for Debt Bill. As the measure was then
 1055
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  concurred in thinking that the earliest information ought to be given to the public on this subject, but he was unable at present to give that reply which was asked from him. A deputation connected with the Tea Trade had solicited an interview with him upon the subject, and until that inter-
 1071
 Lord Mandeville  said, although self-exculpation is in my judgment, a matter of very secondary importance, yet, in justice to the cause which I have undertaken, I conceive I am bound to notice the remarks made by the noble Lord, the Member for Armagh, relative to the delay which there has been in bringing this matter forward. It has been put off five several times; the first was at the request of the friends of the noble Lord; the second time was, because the learned gentleman, the Member for the Tower Hamlets, conceived it was too late an hour in the evening; the third time was the night of the discussion on the Irish Church, which did not end until half-past three in the morning; the fourth time was on the night of Lord John Russell's motion on the Irish Church, when both the noble Lord (Lord Acheson) and the learned Dr.(Lushington) assented to the general wish of the House, and compelled me to withdraw my Motion—and the last time was, when the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Tamworth adjourned the House, so that I had no possible opportunity of bringing it on sooner. I do not impute to them any desire to delay, but I affirm that they had still less reason to impute that wish to me. The papers for which I am now to move I conceive are necessary to complete the evidence which has been moved for by the Member for the city of Armagh. I will, therefore, commence by shewing what the papers already laid upon the Table do prove, and then I will revert to the points which are to be established by the papers for which I now ask. It appears that there had been a series of acts of violence from the time of the Armagh races, unto the period of the election, sufficiently notorious to cause the Government to direct the inquiry. This inquiry was to be made by the magistrates—it was to be of the fullest description—to embrace the previous occurrences, and to extend, if necessary, as far back as the time of the Armagh races; the object being to discover not only the facts but the origin of these feuds. These points are proved by Sir Henry Hardinge's (the late Secretary for Ireland's) letter, In page 20 and 22 it says:—"It appears to his
 1072 1073 1074 1075 1076 Loud cheers from the Ministerial benches. 1077 1078 1079 Newry Telegraph Telegraph 1080 1081
 Dr. Lushington  said, that on coming into the House that evening, it had not been his intention to offer any objection to, or throw any impediment in the way of, the production of any information or of any papers calculated to throw light upon these unfortunate transactions; and he should persist in that intention, notwithstanding the noble Lord's calling in his Motion for a return of the religious belief of all the parties who had been wounded in this transaction. He was willing that an attempt should be made to gratify the noble Lord even in this respect; and he would therefore make no objection to the production of any document that could throw light on this subject. The reason why he took part in this debate was this: the noble Lord, on a former occasion, had ventured to make assertions respecting the conduct of the Earl of Gosford, as Lord-Lieutenant of the county of Armagh, which had struck him not only with astonishment but also with alarm. If those assertions had been well-founded—if, when an official investigation had been instituted into a transaction by order of the executive Government, the officer intrusted with the task of presiding over the investigation had been so forgetful of his duty, and so regardless of public principle, as, instead of discharging his functions with impartiality, to have used them, not to elucidate the truth, but to throw censure on one
 1082 1083 Mandeville litera scripta 1084 1085 1086
 Lord Mandeville  was sorry to interrupt the hon. and learned Gentleman, but he had only spoken of the short notice given to the Magistracy—it was only given to them the day before the investigation commenced.
 Dr. Lushington : And I am speaking on that same subject. On this point, thank God, there can be no misunderstanding between us.
 Lord Mandeville : That notice is not a summons to the Magistrates.
 Dr. Lushington  admitted, that the noble Lord was correct if he meant, speaking of that notice technically, to say that it was not a legal summons for the Magistracy to attend the investigation, but on that point he would say a few words hereafter. All that, he meant to affirm at present was, that his noble Friend without one moment's delay after he had read Sir Henry Hardinge's letter, had made it public to all the world that an investigation into these transactions was to take place before him as the head of the local authorities. This notice must necessarily have reached the Magistrates of the county, as well as the people in general; but the noble Earl did not confine himself to it. What was the next step which he took? He caused letters to be delivered personally to all the resident county Magistrates, informing them of the day fixed for the investigation, and inviting them to attend. The noble Lord opposite complained that the notice was short, but there was no blame attributable to the Earl of Gosford on this head, who, considering the urgency and importance of the question, had no right to delay the investigation. The noble Earl gave the Magistrates the fullest opportunity to attend; and, upon two or three of them expressing regret that the notice had not been longer, he declared his willingness to postpone the inquiry, if the bench thought proper, but the proposition was rejected by a majority of the Magistrates present. The noble Viscount had contended, that according to the terms
 1087 1088 1089 Mandeville 1090 ex parte Dublin Magazine 1091 I 1 I 1092 1093 in toto 1094
 Colonel Verner  did not rise for the purpose of answering the speech of the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down but because he felt called upon to make some observations on the present occasion. Notwithstanding all that the hon. and learned Gentleman had said, he could not help asserting, and this was the feeling of others as well as of himself, that it was his impression that the investigation was neither a fair nor an impartial one, and consequently that blame rested somewhere. But in saying this he begged it to be clearly understood that it was by no means his intention to impute to Lord Gosford anything like improper conduct. He meant to bring no such charge against the noble Earl, but he did mean to declare, that it had been considered by many persons, fully competent to form a right judgment on the subject, that the investigation was not conducted either fairly or impartially. This was the opinion which he entertained, and if the house would allow him he would state the grounds upon which the conclusion at which he arrived had been formed; but before he did so he wished to say, that it was at his request the postponement of the present motion took place in the first instance. He was present on the first day of the investigation, and he heard the letter of Sir Henry Hardinge before alluded to, and that right hon. Gentleman's instructions to Lord Gosford, read. Those instructions certainly stated that the investigation was not to be confined alone to the outrages recently committed, but was to go back, if necessary, to the period of the previous races, which took place the October before; and that such was the intention of the Irish Government was obvious from the evidence of several persons who were examined, for both Mr. Olphert and Sir Frederick Stovin, slated that the recent outrages originated in the proceedings of the previous October races. He
 1095 1096 1097
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had put the House in possession of one very material fact, namely, that he did not mean to charge the Lord Lieutenant of the county of Armagh with any improper conduct. This was most material to the subject under discussion, because the Question they were called upon to determine that night, whatever might be the form of the Motion, or whatever the extrinsic circumstances connected with it, was the conduct of the Earl of Gosford in that capacity, charged as he had been distinctly by the noble Lord opposite, with having packed his tribunal, with having refused to call witnesses, and with having garbled evidence which he afterwards transmitted to the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland. The noble Lord had, in the course of the few words of mitigation and apology which he had felt it his duty to utter on the occasion, thought proper more than once to express his regret at having ever made use of those offensive terms. He retracted the words, but he adhered to the fact. Why, where was the fact to which he did adhere? Where was the single fact which had not been taken from him by the irresistible statement of facts made by the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Dr. Lushington)? If the noble Lord thought there remained one shadow of a fact by which to sustain his refuted accusations, all he could say was, that not one unprejudiced person in that House, or out of it, could accompany him in the conclusion at which he arrived. He had expected—indeed he had hoped—that the noble Lord would have made himself acquainted with the real state of the case,
 1098 1099 1100 1101 1102 1103
 Lord Acheson  said, that, after the very able and zealous manner in which the conduct of his noble relative, the Earl of Gosford had been, advocated by his hon. and learned Friend below him he should trespass very briefly on the time of the House. He would refer only to two of the charges. First, in answer to the noble Viscount's doubts as to the proceedings having been taken far enough back, he would refer to the letter of Mr. Blacker; secondly, as to the hearing of witnesses. The noble Lord (Gosford) had distinctly declared that he was ready to hear any witnesses who might be brought forward for the purpose of sifting the matter to the bottom, and coming to a fair conclusion. For the rest, in respect to the present motion, he (Lord Acheson) wished to speak of it more in sorrow than in anger. He had a right to complain, perhaps, on the part of his noble relative, that it had been brought forward without notice, and that against an individual who could not by any possibility defend himself. At the same time he would say that the noble Viscount had placed himself in a predicament in which he stood bound, either to retract or go on with the accusation which he had advanced; and on the part of his noble relative he was authorised to declare that the more rigid and strict the investigation the better he should be satisfied. If any hon. Gentleman, therefore, had anything to say upon
 1104
 Mr. Shaw  said, that, considering the near connexion of the parties—their station in society—and the relative position they held in Ireland—where few such residents were to be found, he had, from first to last, sincerely regretted those proceedings. He had, at an earlier stage of them, used his most anxious efforts to put a stop to them; he deplored the difference of opinion between the two noble lords having been ever brought before the public; but his noble friend (Lord Mandeville) having expressed his regret for, and retracted the offensive expression complained of, as being too strong, but still maintaining his opinion that the investigation at which his noble Friend had personally attended, was not on the whole fairly conducted, he felt that his noble Friend could not, to please a majority of that House, say what he did not think, and, with every respect for the noble Earl, and for the hon. and learned Gentleman who had defended his conduct, and for his noble Friend, if he would permit him to call him so, who had just sat down, he was obliged to add that, in the debate of that night, at least as far as the noble Viscount (Viscount Mandeville) near him was concerned, he had not met with treatment calculated to conciliate. The charge alleging the garbling of reports and packing of the Court, his noble friend had withdrawn, but he was now placed in a very peculiar situation. His noble Friend was a resident in that country, faithfully and efficiently discharging the various duties required of him as a country gentleman, a landlord, and a Magistrate. No one not residing in Ireland, and not knowing the noble Lord, his family, his connexions, and his influence, could set an adequate value on his residence in that country. His residence there, and his intercourse with the people, should not be objected to him. Was the question of residence in a country suffering so deeply from absenteeism, and every question of private and social life, thus to be mixed up with politics. There was a cheer when he said that his noble Friend was in a peculiar position. He did not expect to see this subject taken up
 1105 1106
 Mr. Hume  said, that during the whole time he had had a seat in the House, he had never heard such a charge brought forward as this. He had never before heard a charge brought forward for which there was not at least some shadow and appearance of reason. But in this case he had listened to the noble Viscount's accusation, and to the answer made by the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets, and he was bound to say that every single imputation cast by the noble Viscount upon the conduct of the Earl of Gosford was entirely removed. If ever there was a complete refutation of serious charges, and there could not be a more serious charge than that of a Magistrate perverting public justice, it was in this case. He was surprised at the counsel given by the hon. and learned Member, that those who opposed the noble Viscount should rather endeavour to conciliate than to irritate him. Did the noble Viscount deserve conciliation? He, on the contrary, had to charge the Chancellor of the Exchequer with using language which was too conciliatory, when he counselled the noble Viscount to express that regret and contrition for having brought such un-
 1107 1108
 Mr. Shaw  rose, and said that such a course of proceeding, as moving that Amendment was contrary to all rule and precedent. The name of Lord Gosford was not in the original Motion, and he objected to the Amendment as quite irregular in point of form, and opposed to the rules of the House. The hon. Member for Middlesex referred in his Amendment to a statement made by an hon. Member in that House, which might be made in any discussion. The hon. Member, without any notice, brought forward a Motion condemning the conduct of another hon. Member, and directly striking at the freedom of debate. The hon. Member could not, in point of form, move his Amendment, as the name of Lord Gosford was not in the original motion. Besides, he was bound to give notice, if he meant to pass a censure upon a Member of that House. Such conduct, if persevered in, would be considered the conduct of a tyrannical majority. He repeated it would be so, and the public would view it in that light.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that it was not at all necessary there should be any connexion between the original Motion and an Amendment, and he hoped his hon. Friend would persevere with the Amendment he had proposed. It was a common practice on a motion for the House going into a Committee of Supply, to have amendments proposed that had no connexion with the original motion. He hoped hon. Gentlemen had read the evidence in this case. By that evidence it would be seen that fourteen houses of Roman Catholics had been burned by Orangemen, and not
 1109
 Colonel Percival  said, he had not intended to say one word upon this subject, but he could not refrain from observing on the injustice of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, pronouncing judgment without a trial, particularly when he must be in his heart aware that the charges he had made against the Orangemen were without foundation. He would appeal to the hon. Member for Armagh if it were true that the Orangemen had, as was stated, arms in their hands on the occasion in question? The hon. and learned Member had thought proper to pronounce a condemnation of the Orangemen without even hearing their defence, but this was only consistent with the practice of the hon. and learned Member, who, on all occasions, threw out his imputations upon all who differed from his views. He would say that if this Amendment were persevered in, it would be considered by the country, and ought to be so considered, as the oppressive act of a tyrannical majority. The fair way to proceed would be to give notice of this Amendment as a substantive motion, and then let the question be regularly brought forward. He was not disposed to say one word in condemnation of Lord Gosford, and indeed, he regretted that this proceeding was allowed to go on, or had been brought at all before the public. He should be glad if his noble Friend (Lord Mandeville) could, consistently with his sense of truth and propriety, say anything to relieve the feelings of Lord Gosford, but he could not certainly press upon his noble Friend anything which he did not feel to be right.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer , thought that the present Motion was irregular in point of form, but he hoped it would be allowed that the real question at issue was the conduct of Lord Gosford. It was competent and fit for the House to express its opinion on that point; but let it not travel out of the usual course, and mix up with it extraneous matter. The present Motion, if carried, would be
 1110
 The Speaker  said, the present proceeding was a novel one, and full of difficulty. To name the noble Lord (Mandeville), a Member of that House, expressly in the Amendment, was quite irregular, as it would refer to his speech, and not to the motion which he made. [Mr.  O'Connell O'Connell
 Mr. Hume  said, his object was to make his Motion as intelligible as possible. He wished it to appear on the Journals that the imputation made by the noble Lord on Earl Gosford was unfounded. However, he would, if his Motion as at present shaped were irregular, omit the name. But when hon. Members understood the matter—
 The Speaker —Those present do, but others who are not present, do not. It would establish a precedent which would be unintelligible to others hereafter.
 Mr. Hume , then put the Amendment, to this effect, that the conduct of Lord Gosford was without blame, and the imputations cast upon him were unfounded.
 Mr. Shaw  contended that the altered Motion did not obviate the objections to the first. It was as clear as two and two made four that it remained still the same, and was a censure on his noble Friend.
 Dr. Lushington  begged to recal to the recollection of the Speaker that a discussion arose in that House on the conduct of his predecessor. Two Gentlemen entered into a warm debate—one of them censured the conduct of the Speaker. Mr. Canning rose, and moved as an amendment that the thanks of the House be given to the Speaker for his impartial conduct. The imputation on the Speaker came out immediately in the debate, and not by premeditated motion. It was idle to debate the specific terms of the resolution,
 1111
 Mr. George F. Young  desired to repudiate any share in the imputation brought by the learned Recorder for Dublin, against those who would support the Amendment, namely, that they were a tyrannical majority. He hated tyranny in all shapes, especially that of a majority taking advantage of a minority. The noble Lord placed himself in a situation that compelled the House to adopt such a resolution.
 Mr. Hume  thought it would be more in accordance with the usage of the House, first to negative the original motion, and for that purpose he should for the present withdraw his Amendment, with the leave of the House.
 Lord Mandeville  observed, in reply, that two charges were made against him, irreconcilable with each other. The one was, that he had made a different statement to-night, from that which he made on a former night; and the other, that he had repeated, virtually, the same statement, although he had retracted the offensive expressions. The latter he intended to maintain. When the learned Doctor, on a former evening, put words in his mouth which he did not use, and he wished to explain, he was put down by a general cry of "Spoke, spoke," and not allowed to explain; but before the post hour on the following day, he contradicted the hon. and learned Gentleman. The hon. and learned Member stated that the Conservative Magistrates formed a majority upon the Bench; but although they were not excluded from hearing the evidence, they were denied the privilege of reporting their judgment upon it, for Lord Gosford did say, that there should be no report. Of the letters which had been read by the hon. and learned Civilian, he would only observe that they were all a denial of matters which he never stated. He did not charge Lord
 1112
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that, as particular reference had been made by the right hon. Gentleman to the part he had taken on this question, he felt it necessary to say a word or two. A statement had been made in that House by one hon. Member, and confirmed by another, that they had been, in the case of an election petition, thrown off their guard by a declaration of Mr. Baker, to the effect that it was not his intention to proceed with a petition with which he did subsequently proceed. He then took the liberty of expressing an opinion, that if these facts were proved against the agent, Mr. Baker, he was guilty of conduct as to the proceedings of the House, which would authorize it to interpose; for if such conduct were suffered, there would be no security for any sitting Member who was attacked. He had said, that the conduct of Mr. Baker was a fit subject for inquiry, and from that he would not recede. He saw nothing which should induce him to change his opinion. But the question should be, in his mind, treated strictly as a judicial one, and as one affecting the integrity and justice of their proceedings. The right hon. Gentleman had very properly declined sitting himself, and proposed to exclude all Members against whom there could be any reasonable objection. He would, moreover, suggest, that the Committee should be confined to a few impartial men; and to a Committee of this description he saw no objection.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that, on his part, there could, be no objection. The thing
 1068
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  hoped the House would think that in the part he had taken on the present occasion he had only acted in consonance with the course he had adopted on the former discussion. Whatever the feeling of the House might be on the Question, he was sure it would be well not to adopt any precedent from which inconvenience might arise.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had no objection to the production or the Returns moved for by the hon. Member for Middlesex, and, therefore, should not trouble the House with any remarks, except with regard to the payment of the Chancellor's salary, and he must beg leave to observe, that the salary was fixed by Act of Parliament, and was payable to all, whether Lord High Chancellor, or Lords Commissioners, who performed the duties attached to holding the Great Seal. [Mr.  Hume:
 The Solicitor General  said, that the Act unquestionably provided that the salary of the Lord Chancellor, amounting
 1115 l. 1116
 Mr. Hawes  said, that in a fuller House he should put the question to the Attorney-General, as to whether the measure was intended to be proceeded in for dividing the office of Equity Judge and Speaker of the House of Lords.
 Mr. Harvey  said, it was quite true, as had been observed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that it was by Act of Parliament, that the 10,000 l. l. l. 1114 l. l.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that in a case in which
 1070
 Mr. Shaw  rose, pursuant to notice, to move that the Petition of Mr. Thomas Baker (presented on the 20th of March) be referred to a Select Committee. He said that the facts to which he had to advert lay within a small compass, and might be briefly stated to the House. The hon. and learned Member for the city of Dublin, in consequence of stating that he had been misled by the agent for the petitioners in the case of the Dublin city election, obtained a postponement of the ballot. After this, the agent, Mr. Baker, of 29, Spring-gardens, made an affidavit, and presented a petition to the House embodying that affidavit in which he positively denied the statement of the
 1066 1067
 Mr. Robinson  said, that when this matter was last before the House, he had observed that the appointment of a Committee would only lead to recrimination between the parties, and would end in no satisfactory result. He still entertained the same opinion, and he entirely concurred with the hon. Member for Middlesex in thinking it would be extremely inconvenient for the House to establish any such precedent. It was not enough that the hon. and learned Member for Dublin should desire the investigation on Mr. Baker's account—it was not enough that he should be anxious for the investigation on his own account, or that the Chancellor of the Exchequer was willing, on the part of the Government, to consent to it; but the House was, in his opinion, bound to ask itself whether any public object could arise from the inquiry, and if not, to quash the proceeding at once,
 1069
 Mr. George F. Young  was of opinion that some arrangement should have been entered into of a more convenient nature. He should wish to abstain at all times from estimating the services of those who filled high judicial offices, by a mere pecuniary measure. Yet he did think, that the country had a right to expect that men would be found to fill offices so highly honourable as those of the Commissioners, without additional remuneration, they already being in the receipt of competent incomes.
 Mr. Hume  said, that he should be extremely sorry to be compelled to go to a division on this Question; and, after what had occurred, he trusted the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin would prevent it by consenting to withdraw his motion.
 Mr. Hume  deprecated a departure on the present occasion from the strict principle on which the proceedings of the House were conducted. If they granted this Committee, they would make a bad precedent—one which would justify any attorney a hundred miles off, who was engaged in getting up a plan, and against whom anything had been said in that house, to ask for a Select Committee. Besides, after the declaration they had heard from his hon. and learned Friend, what could the petitioner, with four witnesses against him, expect from a Committee? He protested against a departure from the usual course and ordinary exercise of the powers of the House. It would be, in his opinion, most unwise for the House to agree to the appointment of this Committee; and certainly, unless he heard something more convincing as to the propriety of such a course, he should demur and call upon the House not to admit such an innovation of its ordinary regulations.
 Mr. Hume , pursuant to notice, rose to move for Returns of the Number of Chancellors for England and Ireland at present receiving Pensions, and the amount of the Pensions so received. He thought this Motion the more necessary from the present state of the Court of Chancery. There were at present five Chancellors paid by the country large Pensions, without there being any Chancellor at all giving his services to the country, in England at least; and as matters were going on, it was not improbable but in a few years we should have five more. It was impossible that things could go on in this way. By the production of these Returns, the people of England would learn for what they were paying between 24,000 l. l. l. l. 1113
 Mr. Pease  remarked that he would content himself with merely calling the attention of the House to a list of the salaries paid to retired Lord Chancellors and Commissioners. It contained the following names, with the sums which each received annexed:—
 
 
 To Lord Eldon £4,000 
 Lord Lyndhurst 5,000 
 Master of the Rolls 7,000 
 Vice-Chancellor 6,000 
 Puisne Judge 5,500 
 Lord Brougham, as Chancellor 10,000 
 Ex-Chancellor 5,000 
 Lord Chief Justice 8,000 
 Speaker of the House of Lords 4,000 
 Total £54,500
 Sir Robert Peel  concurred in thinking that the House ought to look at the consequences which, by possibility, might result from the adoption of the present Motion. It appeared to him that the petitioner had done every thing that a gentleman and a man of integrity would do under similar circumstances; but he could not see why the House should institute a judicial inquiry into those circumstances. For his own part, he thought every principle would dictate to the House to decline the appointment of a Committee on the subject. If such a Committee were appointed, there would be conflicting testimony, and after all, probably, even if the Committee sat as a court of honour, no result would be arrived at. Mr. Baker had taken a proper course to vindicate his own character, and there might have been misapprehensions on both sides; it would only increase difficulties by consenting to this Motion. He (Sir R. Peel) had but a very imperfect recollection of what had occurred when the subject was last under discussion, but upon the whole, he confessed that he thought it would be better that his right hon. Friend should withdraw his Motion.
 Sir R. Peel  was anxious to put a question to the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, which was of some importance. As he had not given any notice of his intention to the right hon. Gentleman, he was, of course, not bound to answer it, but he thought there could be no difficulty in the matter. The subject to which his question was directed called for some public declaration on the part of the Government; he alluded to the Question of the Tea Duties. At present those duties were regulated, as the house doubtless was aware, on a graduated scale, and there were three different grades of duties. The Committee, by which the whole subject had last year been investigated, had not expressed any decided opinion upon it, but had advised the present duties to be continued for some time longer, leaving the matter to be dealt with by the Government, and those duties still continued. He wished to know whether any alteration was contemplated by the present Government. If no alteration was intended, it was extremely desirable that it should be publicly known, and it was equally important that any change in the present system of duties should also be communicated to the public, on account of the peculiar situation of the China trade at this particular season of the year. He put this question, because whether the present system was to be adhered to, or whether any alteration of it was contemplated, it was important that it should forthwith be made public.
 The Attorney General  deprecated all such discussions on private petitions.
 Mr. O'Connell  interposed: I speak to order. If the hon. and learned Gentleman means to make a Motion, that is one thing; if he means to put a question that is another; but if it be a question, then he has no right to make a speech. Which is he going to do.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, it was easy to see from that cheer—that party cheer—what was the object of the right hon. and learned Member. When the right hon. and learned Gentleman made a charge of this nature before against him, he had gone across the House, and asked him what was the name of this Murphy, and he (Mr. Shaw) told him he did not know. It was found afterwards, and David was inserted in the  Mirror of Parliament 1133 l. 1134 Mirror of Parliament.
 Mr. O'Connell  positively denied the truth of Lord Kenmare's disclaimer, and said he could prove it. He stated also that there was a cross-examination, Murphy and two others having given evidence before the prisoners pleaded guilty.
 Mr. Morgan J. O'Connell  stated he had in his possession a letter from Lord Kenmare, dated the 27th of December, in which he stated, "It is not my intention to take any part in the election." He added, in reference to the charge of intimidation, that the majority of the electors in Killarney voted for the Knight of Kerry.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was not sorry that he had not interfered with the hon. Gentleman in the course he had thought proper to pursue. It was a question affecting his personal honour as well as his conduct as a public man, and therefore he was naturally anxious to give it a
 1136 1137 1138 Roebuck: 1139 * * 1140 * * 1141 1142
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the hon. Gentleman was quite wrong in his premises. It was true the term "military chest" might have been used, but there was a distinction in the nature of the funds designated by that term. The fact was, that Lord Dalhousie had made his payments out of the national revenues belonging to the Canadas, while he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had made them by advances out of British funds, to be repaid when the House of Assembly had done that which was confidently expected from them.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that if the hon. Member would bring bring forward his charge as he now stated it, when he had the documents necessary to its decision before the House, he should be prepared to show him and the House, that the appropriation formerly made by Lord Dalhousie, and that made by him (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) were quite different in their nature and character. He should have great pleasure, if the hon. Member would move for those papers at the conclusion of the evening, in consenting to their production; but he hoped that in the present state of public business, the House would see that nothing could be more injudicious than to sanction a course of the present description—a course which, without those documents, could lead to no result. The hon. Member had justified himself from the imputation of being a party to divulging the confidential communication, but he had no right to have used that document on the present occasion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the hon. Member for Middlesex would find the difference in the two cases much better from the documents when brought forward, than by any answer that at present could be given.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said that his explanation should be very plain and simple, for it should consist in quoting what it was he addressed to the House on this subject on the 9th of March last. The right hon. Gentleman then read the following quotation.—"It would be in the recollection of the House, that Lord Dalhousie directed certain public expenses to be paid out of Canadian revenues, unsanctioned by any Legislative authority. That proceeding was disapproved of by the Committee of 1828, and it was alleged, that he had since acted contrary to the opinion expressed in that Report. He begged to say, that he had done no such thing. In what he did he acted under the advice, and upon the responsibility of, all his Colleagues. Two years' income were due to the Government officers throughout Canada: those individuals, high and low, had been deprived of all payments during that period. Their distress was, in many cases, most urgent: many of the public servants were under the necessity of raising money on disadvantageous terms, and some were thus subject to extreme pressure and distress. The Canadian money was in the hands of the Receiver-General, and there was the utmost confidence entertained that, in November, at the meeting of the Assembly, a Bill would be passed for the appropriation of that money. Parliament not being sitting at the time, it was thought advisable to give directions, that if there were officers of the Government in a state requiring relief, and having two years' arrears then due, there being
 1147 *
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that there was no vote in the Estimates for such a purpose; nor did he think it necessary, because he felt every confidence, that when the whole of the facts were perfectly made known to the House of Assembly, they would instantly agree to a vote to refund the money.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he wished to take this opportunity to express a hope that when the Bill for amending the Registration Act should be brought forward, a provision would be made to enable the Government to pay the revising Barristers in some mode
 * 1148
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  hoped, as his noble Friend, the Secretary of state for the Home Department, was not present, the hon. Gentleman would not introduce a discussion on this subject.
 Mr. Francis Baring  said, that there was no intention to place any expense under that head in these estimates. There was reason to believe that a palace for the Ambassador was not at present required.
 Mr. F. Baring  said, that if the hon. Gentleman would wait until next year, he hoped he would not have reason to complain of this charge. He perfectly agreed with the hon. Gentleman that it was a monstrous absurdity that the public should be called upon to pay with one hand what it received with the other, and he hoped the system would soon be put a stop to.
 Mr. F. Baring  said, that Sir George Shee had been appointed to an embassy, and after preparing his outfit, his appointment was rescinded on the dissolution of Lord Melbourne's Cabinet; this sum was to defray the expenses he had been put to on that occasion, and had no reference whatever to any salary.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was understood to vindicate the present Government from any blame on that account.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it could not be expected that the King of the Netherlands (to whom the question had been referred for arbitration) could take any share in the expenses since he had no interest, whatever in the settlement of the question.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he thought no benefit could arise to the laws of the country from such a discussion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he could give an answer to the hon. Member. With respect to the names of those who had received that bounty, their names belonged not to Spain, but to Europe, but specially for services rendered to this country, to England, and he for one would never consent to proclaim those names to foreign powers, and thus throw a difficulty in their way of returning home. With respect to the sum voted to Mr. Babbage, the hon. Gentleman the other day received some explanation in justification of a most distinguished scientific discovery. Mr. Babbage did not receive a single farthing of that money; he was engaged in a subject of the greatest possible scientific interest, and he applied to the Government on the subject, not to pay him anything, but to suffer his expenses to be paid upon the publication of the invention. It was proposed to him that some of his instruments should become the property of the country, and it had gone abroad that this was putting money into Mr. Babbage's pocket. Upon the third point, there was no individual connected with the prosecution of that survey alluded to, for whom he felt a higher respect than for Dr. M'Culloch, the mineralogical surveyor; the survey was undertaken by the former Government, and the present Ministry had carried it on since. If, however, the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cobbett) thought that there were no beneficial results to be attained by the acquisition of scientifical knowledge, he and the hon. Gentleman were so completely at difference that he despaired of effecting any agreement.
 The Solicitor-General  concurred with his hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney-General, in thinking that it would be quite unnecessary to have any further evidence.
 Mr. Charles Pelham  rose to give a flat contradiction to the assertion of the Member for Birmingham, that the yeomanry were merely political partizans, having commanded a corp of yeomanry for some time.
 Mr. Hawes  stated, that the opinions of both wholesale and retail dealers in the Borough, which he had the honour to represent, were now as favourable to the measure as they had formerly been unfavourable.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that Acts of Parliament were not the most effective possible method of impressing the people with a moral tone of feeling. Example would do a great deal more towards bringing about so desirable a result than anything else, and of this there was unfortunately but too little. The other day, when at a country church, he saw a Bishop come to preach a charity sermon in a splendid coach, drawn by horses, the brass on whose harness was in much greater quantity than was contained in the pockets of all the poor people who were standing round. There was not much in this of the primitive simplicity of the Apostles, who taught the early gospel. Parliamentary morality would never be found to answer.
 Mr. Carruthers,  urged the necessity of hearing further evidence, because there were various objections to which the Bill was at present liable.
 Mr. Shaw  begged to be indulged for a few moments on a matter personal to himself, which also, in some degree, involved the character of the House. He saw the hon. and learned Member for Dublin in his place, and would take this opportunity of alluding to a contradiction given by the hon. Member to a statement which he (Mr. Shaw) had made. It would be in the recollection
 1130
 Mr. Shaw,  in explanation, stated, that as to the name of David, he immediately discovered it by reference to a letter, and mentioned it to at least twenty persons, that the parties to the assault on Murphy had pleaded guilty, and now were under sentence of some months' imprisonment; and with respect to the hon. Gentleman's statement, that Lord Kenmare had promised not to take any part against his nephew, he (Mr. Shaw) was authorized to state, that Lord Kenmare had never made a promise to that effect. He also observed, that there could be no cross-examination, as the accused pleaded guilty, and were sentenced to some months' imprisonment. He also denied that he had reported either his own or the hon. and learned Gentleman's speech.
 Mr. Shaw:  I am not about to make a motion, to ask a question, or to make a speech; but I have already begged, and I hope I shall receive, the indulgence of the House for a few moments to make an explanation in a matter personal to myself. It will be in the recollection of the House, that on the occasion to which I refer the hon. and learned Gentleman challenged me to adduce a single instance of violence or breach of the law having occurred in the county of Kerry in connexion with the recent election there; that in reply I said that I had heard on good authority and believed, that shortly before the election the hon. and learned Gentleman had gone to a person of the name of Murphy, a Roman Catholic trader in the town of Killarney, and asked him whether he intended to vote for the Knight of Kerry, that Murphy said he did, and that the hon. and learned Member answered, "If you do, I'll have across or mark put upon your door," and threatened him with the consequences; and that shortly after Murphy's house was violently attacked, and his person assaulted; upon which the House cannot forget the solemn manner in which the hon. Gentleman stepped forward and called God to witness that from beginning to end the whole story was false. The  Mirror of Parliament 1131 1132 Cheers.
 Mr. Sinclair  observed, that the extraordinary and lamentable thing was, that such a petition should be necessary.
 Mr. Labouchere  must express the astonishment which he felt at finding that two Gentlemen whom he so highly respected, as the two delegates alluded to, could have been concerned in such a transaction as that of divulging the confidential conversation which had passed between them and his right hon. Friend. He could not help saying that, in his opinion, they were not justified in what they had done.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that after all, he
 1155
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that he entertained views upon this subject very different from those of most of the gentlemen by whom he was surrounded. He objected to any establishment of yeomanry whatever, on the ground, first of their inefficiency, and next of their unconstitutionality. There was no military men who would not admit that they were far inferior to the regular troops of the line for putting down any actual disturbances; and it was therefore injudicious to keep up an inefficient, while you could have a perfectly efficient, force. But it was also unconstitutional to select any body of citizens for temporary periods and temporary purposes, and arm them with deadly weapons against their fellow-countrymen. What he desired to see was this: that the regular troops should never be employed except in defending the country from
 1158
 Mr. Freshfield  observed, that the Insolvent Debtor's Court was not a permanent Court, and that, unless revived by Act of
 1159
 Dr. Bowring  suggested that these estimates should be made up in a very different manner. There was the sum of 14,504 l.
 Dr. Bowring  knew from personal experience that at this moment a great number of individuals who were representing England in foreign countries did not represent the reform principles of this country. Our Representatives abroad ought to appear to the eyes of strangers as the Representatives of the people appeared to the eyes of their constituents here,—that was, as persons appointed not only to carry out their own views of reform in this country, but to bring those views into practical operation elsewhere. He rejoiced that the Government had lately set aside an individual because that individual did not represent their principles, and he hoped the Administration, to whom he wished to give every sort of efficiency, would be worthily represented in every other court in Europe.
 Mr. Hardy  said, the object of the petitioners was to put an end to the disgraceful system which now prevaile of making people work at the engines on Sundays. It was most unjust that these poor people should alone of their class be debarred from the holy rest of the Sabbath.
 Mr. Plumptre  supported the petition. He was acquainted with a rail-way which passed near a town and the noise on it was extremely great.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that the petition did not express the sentiments of the people of Bath. Of the subscribers to this preposterous petition the first nineteen were clergymen of the Church of England.
 Mr. Roebuck  referred to an item for the expenses of the tours undertaken by the Governor and Bishop of Barbadoes: and said, that as to the latter, especially, they were services performed for the spiritual benefit of the colonies, and the expenses of which ought to be paid by them.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that if the colonies wanted Bishops, why did they not keep them? They had got Bishops in England, and quite enough, he was sure, and therefore they sent them to the colonies; the colonies did not like them, and this country was obliged to pay them.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that was precisely the point upon which he was at issue with the right hon. Gentleman. He contended that Lord Dalhousie paid the sums out of monies under the control of Government, but for which the Government was answerable to Parliament, and that the right hon. Gentleman opposite had done
 1144 Chancellor of the Exchequer:
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that he had been accused by the right hon. Gentleman with the betrayal of a private and confidential communication. He most solemnly denied the imputation, for so far from being a party to divulging that private communication, he had now in his possession an apology from the delegates of Lower Canada to him for having taken a step which they believed they were driven to, by the conduct of the right hon. Gentleman. For the divulging it an apology had been made to him (Mr. Roebuck). The minute of the conversation had been sent by the deputation to him at a time when he was so dangerously ill as to be obliged to leave the country and go abroad, and he returned it with these observations—that the document, so far as he could say, contained a correct statement of what had taken place at the interview with the right hon. Gentleman, but that no possible use ought to be made, or could be made, of it. He would appeal to the right hon. Gentleman, and ask how he came so quickly to accuse him of divulging it? That document had been laid before the House of Assembly by others—it was published in all the Canadian newspapers, and was brought over in them to him (Mr. Roebuck) in common with the rest of the whole world, and when thus made matter of common information and publicity, he had every right to speak of that which all the world knew. But the right hon. Gentleman asked why he had not made the statement before. Why, the way he put the matter was by asking the right hon. Gentleman whether he had done so and so. Having given the right hon. Gentleman notice of the questions, he had of course put them.
 1143 Chancellor of the Exchequer:
 Mr. Roebuck  referred to his Motion on the paper for "A Copy of a Dispatch from the right hon. Thomas Spring Rice to Lord Aylmer, authorising him to pay the officers of the
 1135 l. l.
 Mr. Roebuck  asked a question relative
 1153
 Mr. Hume  was determined to press his Amendment to a division.
 Mr. Hume  remarked that there was an item of 3,345 l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  said, that two questions had been put to the right hon. Gentleman, both of which he had answered in the negative, denying that he had done either
 1145
 Mr. Hume  asked, whether it was the intention of Government to ask for any vote in order to make good this money; because, if so, that would afford an opportunity for discussing the whole matter?
 Mr. Hume  would ask hon. Gentlemen if any one of them, even after this long discussion, knew what the right hon. Gentleman had really done? The hon. Member for Bath said he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had done one thing, and the right hon. Gentleman said he had done another. The present discussion was one of the greatest importance to the country, and it was necessary to know whether the Governor of Canada had appropriated the money without any directions. The subject was of the deepest interest particularly when the state of Canada was considered. The charge against the hon. Member for Bath was extremely improper, as there was no violation of confidence on his part. When the delegates left the right hon. Gentleman, in order to justify themselves they thought it necessary to note down the private conversation that had taken place. They communicated that to the House of Assembly, so that there could be no violation of confidence or misrepresentation on the part of the hon. Member for Bath. The accusation of the right hon. Gentleman was, that his (Mr. Hume's) hon. Friend had betrayed a confidential conversation. Now this was a serious charge to be brought against any individual; but the question was, had it any foundation in fact? Finding that Lower Canada was in a state of great excitement, the delegates on their return felt it their duty to lay the minutes of what had passed between them and the right hon. Gentleman before the House of Assembly; and because the House of Assembly thought fit to have those minutes
 1146
 Mr. Hume  begged to suggest whether, instead of employing 60 or 70 Revising Barristers, differing materially in the degrees of their qualifications for the duties they had to perform, it would not be better to employ five or six able and intelligent men to go through the country and do all the business.
 Mr. Hume  said, the principle of allowing passage-money, rested on this; that when individuals were appointed to foreign offices, and the salary did not begin till their arrival at the station, it was very fair that all their expenses should be paid to carry them there. But when a noble Lord was appointed, and the day he arrives receives a thousand pounds down, why should they adopt the principle of paying the expenses of carrying him round the coast. The practice had prevailed in the East-India Company, that the salary was continued though all expenses—all the charges of contingent expenses—were repaid, and the Governor, charged all his travelling expenses to the Company. No alteration was made till the expenses became so enormous, that the Court of Directors very properly took the matter up. Upon principle, they ought not to suffer anything of this kind, and he would put it to the Government to consider that in future. They ought not to make any grants but on principle (for it was of principle that he was speaking; and whether it were 1 l. l. 1152
 Mr. Hume,  that expense then was one of the consequences of the experiment lately made by the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) to carry on the Government of the country against the wishes of the people. As the days of common sense were now coming, he hoped the present Government would follow the example set them by their opponents, and not suffer themselves to be surrounded and impeded by men in office adverse to their own principles. He wished the noble Lord, the Secretray for Foreign Affairs were present, that he might have asked him whether he was going on in the old track, or whether he had determined that this country should be represented in foreign courts by persons entertaining feelings corresponding with the feelings of the Government at home? The hon.
 1150
 Mr. Hume  said, he had mentioned the matter, because it was a question involving a sum of 295,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  observed an item of 4,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  next referred to a charge of 1,213 l.
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask a question respecting the expenditure at Constantinople. He was desirous to know, whether it was the intention of the present Government to proceed with the survey ordered by the former Government, with a view to the erection of a palace for the Ambassador at Pera, and whether there was any vote or charge for that purpose in the estimates.
 Mr. Scholefield  said, that if it ever should be necessary to use the yeomanry, the consequences would be such as he would not attempt to describe; he thought that the old voluntary system called into service in former times was far preferable to the present one. The yeomanry were generally of a class superior to the lower sort of persons, and therefore much more anxious to ride over them than to meet their demands in a fair and proper way. [ Cries of "No! no!"
 Mr. Philip Howard  said, that as only three men were employed at these engines, it might be very possible so to arrange the journeys as to enable them to have time to attend to divine service.
 Mr. Potter  said, this was a most absurd petition. The subscribers to it might as well try to suppress Sunday eating. Besides, if such a prohibition were too rigidly enforced, people might be prevented from going to Church on Sundays.
 Mr. Estcourt  stated it to be his impression that if the Government were not prepared to maintain a large constabulary force in the country, at an enormous expense, it would be utterly impossible to maintain the public peace, unless by keeping up the yeomanry corps.
 Mr. Cobbett  disclaimed any intention to impute tyrannical motives to the Government, but the noble Lord was mistaken as to the origin of the disturbances which arose from the distresses of the poor, and those were produced by their hard treatment, and especially by the system of hired overseers.
 Mr. Cobbett  observed that the aristocracy of this country were very humble; when they could not get much, they were contented with little. The Americans had Ambassadors far superior to any that this country had sent out, at an expense much less than that which the Duke of Wellington put into his pocket every year. Several of those charges ought to be upon the Civil List. It was absolutely necessary that they should have a cheap Government; and they were in a state when a change of some sort or other must take place, and therefore they should begin by appointing a cheap Government
 Mr. Cobbett  was not satisfied with the item he observed for "pensions to Spanish subjects in England," what services had they rendered this country? If the Parliament was to be charitable, he, should like to give the money to poor men and women in England. Why should they be so very charitable to the Spanish people? when there were so many at
 1154 l. l.
 Mr. Cobbett  rose to express his dissatisfaction at the charges inserted in the estimate for the expenses of "Commissions for inquiring into the State of the Law," the causes of agricultural distress were the frequent alteration of the laws. They were everlastingly altering the laws, when, in America, the laws were made good at first, there was no "Commission," and they were the same as ever. With respect, especially to the alteration of the punishment for horse-stealing; he was of opinion that it had a very bad effect upon the agricultural system, and that horse-stealing had increased to a very great degree. He was quite sick of hearing them talk about "Commissioners to inquire into the law."
 Mr. Cobbett  said he cast no imputation upon his Majesty's Government, his observation was only with a view to correct those abuses, and curtail those expenses. He (Mr. Cobbett) knew the difficulty they had to encounter, in the want of a Parliament to back them in making retrenchments which ought to be made: he hoped, however, they would find such a Parliament.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, he was surprised to hear the hon. Member for Bath call them " services: 1151
 Mr. Ewart  differed from the hon. Member for Oldham who had said, that the crime had increased since the alteration of the law; such was not the fact, and he was borne out in that, by reference to the returns of assizes. If the hon. Member (Mr. Cobbett) had attended to those returns he would have come to a similar conclusion. And as to Commissioners to inquire into the state of the laws, it was necessary that the laws should be universally known, so that persons should not transgress them by being ignorant of their existence. For example the Dorchester labourers were transported for the transgression of a law, of the existence of which he, (Mr. Ewart) verily believed they were ignorant.
 Mr. Tooke  said, it was singular that when the whole time of any public officer was devoted to the public service, that for any particular services he should come upon the country with additional demands upon the public money.
 Sir C. Dalbiac  had always considered the Yeomanry Corps as the natural protectors of the country, and one of the natural means of preserving its internal tranquillity, and he had therefore always regretted their reduction by Lord Lansdowne.
 Captain Pechell  expressed his satisfaction with the yeomanry corps of Sussex.
 Mr. Ward  differed from the hon. Member for Birmingham, he (Mr. Ward) considered the yeomanry corps was the most effectual, most constitutional force that could be employed in this country. The allowances were not in any way adequate to them, when actually called out into service; 3 s. d. 1157
 The Attorney-General,  although he deprecated the taking of further evidence on the subject, moved that the Bill be referred to the consideration of a Select Committee. The object was, to discuss the merits of the Bill, and make it as complete as possible.
 The Attorney-General  said, that although he could not make any pledge on the subject, there could be no doubt that if the Court were abolished the judges would be properly compensated.
 Mr. Jervis  thought that something should be done to lessen the charge which the country now sustained under the Registration system. The charge was much more than adequate to the duties performed.
 Sir Oswald Mosley  saw nothing either extraordinary or ridiculous in the petition. All that the parties wanted was to secure to the labourers on the rail-road the same opportunity for enjoying the holy rest of the Sabbath which other poor persons enjoyed.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  thought, that the expense incurred by the displacing of Sir George Shee would be found to be the smallest expense that the late experiment of the right hon. Baronet had occasioned to the country. He gave notice to his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that he should move for a return of all the expenses that had been incurred in consequence of the recent changes of the. Government.
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  was understood to say that although the Whig Government did not on a former occasion remove our foreign Ambassadors immediately on coming into office, yet it proceeded gradually in making changes, so that when the late Government succeeded them, our foreign Ambassadors were almost all connected with the Whigs.
 Mr. William Miles  presented a Petition from Bath, praying that in the Great Western Railway Bill a clause might be introduced prohibiting Sunday travelling on it. The hon. Member supported the petition, and gave notice of his intention to move a clause to that effect.
 Viscount Howick  rose, and said, the hon. Member for Middlesex was aware, that the calling out of the Militia was attended always with great objections. That it was attended with a very great inconvenience and expense. The mere calling out of the militia, independent of the Staff expenses, was attended with an expenditure of never less than 100,000 l. l. l. l. l. 1156
 Lord Stanley  rose to present a Petition, which he brought forward very unwillingly, as it contained very serious Charges against a Person high in rank in the Established Church of this country, and who, as he understood, was, and had been for a long time, suffering under pecuniary and family distress. At the same time he felt that the duty which he owed to his constituents, rendered it imperative on his part to submit to the House those complaints which they made, and, he thought, justly made, of the conduct of their pastor—conduct that furnished them with an instance of the necessity which existed for a real and substantial Reform of the Church, such as he trusted his Majesty's Ministers would effect. The gentleman to whom he alluded, was, he believed, one well known to the House, to which he had formerly officiated as chaplain, Dr. Webber, Prebendary of Westminster, Dean of Ripon, and Rector of Kirkham, in Lancashire, of whom the petitioners, the inhabitants of that palish, complained. When the House looked at the condition of the parish, it would be seen from the great extent of it, (and similar instances of parishes, he was sorry to say, frequently occurred in the North of England,) that it was certainly impossible for any one clergyman to discharge the spiritual duties connected with it, beneficially and with effect. The petitioners stated that, in addition to the town of Kirkham, there were 12,000 inhabitants distributed over an agricultural district, included in the parish eight miles in breadth, and two in length; that the parish, taken altogether, comprised an extent of 130 square miles; that it was divided into seventeen townships; that so long ago as 1650, an inquisition of the parish took place, and that the Commissioners reported that it was extremely desirable, considering the extent of the parish, that it should be divided into several smaller ones. It further appeared, from the statement of the petitioners, that of the seventeen townships into which the parish was divided, there was Church accommodation afforded by the parish Church, sufficient for the inhabitants of two townships; that five others had separate chapels of ease for their accommodation; that there was one chapel the gift of the vicar, and endowed by him; that
 1162 l. l. l. l. 1163 l. l. l. 1164 l. l. l. 1165
 An Honourable Member  said, he would not have said a word upon the subject,
 1172 s.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that his only reason for obtruding himself upon the attention of the House at that moment was, that the petitioners had done him the honour to request him to support the prayer of their petition. If the noble Lord thought that the agitation of the Tithe Question was likely to raise a "No Popery" cry, he was totally mistaken. The selection of him (Mr. O'Connell) for one of their advocates was some evidence that the petitioners were not likely to fall into that error. Though the petition was signed by only eight hundred out of fifteen thousand Presbyterians, the eight hundred names were those of landholders. Hearing that 123 signatures of persons who were not landholders had been affixed, they had been struck out. They claimed from the House the benefit of the Christian principle, that no man should be compelled to pay any clergyman but his own.
 Mr. Divett  rose to move as an amendment, that the issue of the writ be suspended. He must begin by apologising to the House for having taken up the subject, because when the disfranchisement of this borough was brought under the notice of Parliament in the last Session, it was in much abler hands than his. His right hon. Friend the Member for Buckingham (Sir T. Fremantle) was the chairman of the Committee appointed in 1833 to inquire into the merits of the Stafford election. That Committee, after hearing the evidence
 1175 s. s. s. s. s. l. l. s. l. l. l. 1176 l. l. l. 1177 l. Hear 1178
 Captain Chetwynd  said, that he had listened with attention and surprise to the arguments which had been advanced in support of his Amendment by the hon. member for Exeter. He had listened with attention, because he wished to know what were the overwhelming facts, proofs, and arguments, by which he intended to justify his Motion for suspending the issuing of this writ. He had listened with surprise, because up to that moment he had always looked upon the hon. Member as a friend of liberal principles, who was anxious to give the people every opportunity to exercise their elective franchise. To him it appeared that the greater part of the arguments which the hon. Member had used to induce the House not to issue this writ, were valid arguments to prove the propriety of issuing it. If the borough of Stafford were now to be put upon its trial—if accusations were again to be brought against it (as no doubt they would be, as the hon. Member had given notice of a Motion for one day this week), it became peculiarly necessary that it should have every advantage, and that every indulgence should be shown to it, that it might be in a situation to defend
 1179 1180 s. s. 1181
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that if, as the hon. Gentleman had asserted, there really was no bribery at the last election for the borough, he (Mr. Cobbett) should be very ready to overlook the abominations of the past, and to expect better things for the future; but it was universally believed in Stafford and in all that part of the county that, with the exception of the thirty-three men who voted for Sir Charles Wolsely at the last election, all the electors were bribed. He was afraid that the borough was not quite so pure as the hon. Gentleman had been led to suppose; nay, he was afraid that the great body of the electors—of course without the knowledge of the hon. Gentleman—were most shamefully bribed at the last election.
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  having in the last Session of Parliament brought in a Bill to disfranchise the borough of Stafford, begged to state why it happened that, not having changed his opinion upon the subject, he was not the person to introduce a similar measure in the present Session. Being at the commencement of the year connected with the Administration, he thought it was not fair or proper towards the borough that a Bill of that nature—a Bill of a judicial nature—a Bill in fact of pains and penalties—should be brought in with any of the influence of Government supposed to be attached to it. Under the influence of that feeling, he declined to bring it forward again, and communicated to the hon. Member for Exeter who took a great interest in the Question, that such
 1182 1183
 Mr. Edward Buller  maintained that the whole of the evidence given in the case of the borough of Stafford ought to be looked at with the greatest caution. In his opinion, the House was not in possession of sufficient information to justify the suspension of the writ. He would undertake to say, that no bribery or corruption had been committed on the part of the two sitting Members.
 Mr. Forster  took the same view as the hon. Member who had just spoken, and thought it would be an uncalled-for stretch of power to suspend the writ. He would agree to an address directing the Attorney General to proceed against any person who should be proved to have been guilty of bribery; but he was not prepared to go the length of disfranchising the borough.
 Sir Robert Peel  observed, that he had voted on a former occasion in favour of a resolution which declared that notorious
 1184 1185
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied that it was the intention of his Majesty's Ministers, without delay, to renew the Commission appointed under the Government of Lord Grey.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that the advance had been made upon the strength of certain representations which were last year laid before
 1186
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  admitted that that was a very difficult question. He could say that no works,
 1194
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was the opinion of an eminent military gentleman, that the forts would materially strengthen the country.
 Colonel Hay  said, the Duke of Wellington had sent a commission to Canada for the purpose of ascertaining the practicability of erecting the forts; and all which had since been done by the present Ministry, for the purpose of finishing those forts which had been begun.
 Colonel Leith Hay  said, that in rising to bring forward the Ordnance Estimates it was not his intention to trespass at any length on the attention of the House. These Estimates had, as they all knew, been drawn out under peculiar circumstances.
 1188 l. s. d. l. l. l. l. 1189 l s. d. 1190 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Colonel Leith Hay  said, that in a department like the Ordnance, among the multiplicity of stores, it was found that it would be impossible to obtain some of them so cheap and good as those already on hand. When the House, however, had intimated a desire that the superfluous stores should be removed and sold off as fast as possible, consistently with the interests of the public, that desire had been followed up by the Board, though he was sorry to say, a large quantity still remained.
 Colonel Leith Hay  said with regard to some of those departments he agreed with the hon. Member. To show that the Board had every inclination to reduce, whenever it could be done consistently with the public interests; he would mention that since the estimates were prepared, the storekeeper at Fort William having died, the office was immediately abolished, it being thought that the duties could be performed as well by the Barrack master. The Establishment too at Pendennis was thought unnecessary, and had been abolished by which a saving of 460 l.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that the subject was indeed a most important one, and he was very glad it had come before the House from such a quarter; had it proceeded from the humble individual addressing them, there would have been an instant cry of spoliation, robbery, and utter destruction. He had on a former occasion ventured to broach the subject in a speculative way, not for want of practical illustrations, however, but because if he had brought ever so many proofs to bear on the point, he should have been met with the same kind of vituperation as a wisher for the spoliation and destruction of the interests of the country, &c. and be reproached with taking invidious means for accomplishing his ends, without daring to grapple with the great principle. If the House had not adjourned over the day on which his Motion on the subject of Queen Anne's bounty was to have come on, he should have shown, beyond a cavil, that the present was not, as pro-
 1171 l.
 Dr. Bowring  assured the House that it was impossible to estimate the progress which had been made by the industry of
 1187
 Dr. Bowring  said, that from the manner in which the Estimates were made out, it was very difficult to ascertain the cost of any particular Government.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that was the most extraordinary vote in the whole estimate: he saw fortifications erected in Halifax, Prince Edward's Island, Canada, &c, now, what were all these for? There was a citadel in Lower Canada: what was that for? They would lose those countries in time, and lose their money with them. They were forcing the people of England to pay for expenses which were absolutely useless. They were not going to war, he hoped, and they should not incur all those enormous expenses by preparations for war. It was nothing more than to afford a pretence for sending out persons who might enjoy large salaries as superintendents,—an exceedingly convenient mode of getting rid of idle people! He hoped the Member for Middlesex would find means to restrain those expenses.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that was not the question; the question was, whether the country was strong enough without them; and he hoped that in the liberal spirit of the Government, they would have a much stronger fortification than could be made of bricks and stone, and brass and iron.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that if the works were continued, they would be perfectly useless; the way to preserve Upper Canada was to govern it well, and if they governed them by their hearts, their hands would be quite strong enough to keep off the Americans. There was something very suspicious in that system of fortifying; he was not quite sure that they would not, one day, be turned against the inhabitants themselves.
 Mr. Walter  was afraid that the security was no other than that of a losing concern.
 Mr. Walter  begged again to revert to a subject to which he had alluded a few nights ago. A short time before the recess he saw a statement, that a considerable sum of money, upwards of thirty thousand pounds, had been advanced in part payment of a sum of 270,000 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  did not mean to object to the vote, but he thought the public institutions of this country should be more accessible to visitors than they were. In this respect this country was behind the nations of the Continent, and for his part he would not only extend the days, but the hours, during which the British Museum was kept open for the reception of the public.
 Mr. Hume  after referring to the proposed plan for amalgamating the civil and military departments of the Ordnance, begged to ask the right. hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) whether he was prepared either to agree to the appointment of a Committee of that House to inquire into the subject, or to renew the former Commission, or to appoint a new one, with the view of ascertaining how far the object he had in view could be accomplished? He (Mr. Hume) should not be satisfied to go on with the Ordnance Estimates, unless he received some assurance that measures would be taken to prosecute the inquiries which had already been commenced upon the subject.
 Mr. Hume  said, upwards of two millions had been thrown away in that way in the wilds of America. The fortifications would cost 220,000 l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  said, it would greatly facilitate business if the pay-offices of the army, the navy, and the Ordnance were consolidated, and expressed his hope that a Bill to that effect would be brought in during the present Session.
 Mr. Hume  called the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to that department. If they took a walk to Hyde Park, they would see there a Magazine, kept up at an expence of 254 l. l. 1192
 Mr. Cobbett  said, he saw no "must" in the case, he saw no reason why the country should keep up servants when it did not want them, any more than private gentlemen. There was the Superannuation List. Now, the noble Lord (Lord Howick) had observed last night, that he (Mr. Cobbett) looked upon the New Poor Law Bill as a "favourite subject of declamation." Well, if he must say so; it was a favourite subject of declamation, sure enough. It was tyranny; it was oppression; it was injustice. But it was impossible to think of the Superannuation List without thinking of the New Poor-law Bill. Why, when it was passed, they were told that to make "a provision for the aged and infirm poor," would teach them to be improvident in their youth; to be economical in their better days, there ought to be no provision for them, and then they would save up, and be independent in their old age. Now, why could they not apply that doctrine to the Gentlemen of the Ordnance? There was this difference, he confessed between them, the poor could not save any thing but health to labour, and often they had not a sufficiency of that; but those Gentlemen of the Ordnance had from 1,000 l. l. 1193
 Mr. Cobbett  observed, that these sums were necessary to keep the system going;
 1191
 Mr. Cobbett  believed all these expenses sprung from a desire to squander away the public money; and he believed that the people of Canada and the people of England would stand it no longer. It seemed when an expense was begun, it must go on—Parliament had sanctioned it. Why, Parliament had never sanctioned this outlay, he never had, at least. The sanction of Parliament at one time was no warrant for continuing a wrong.
 Mr. Cobbett  could not consistently with justice to his constituents, who derived no benefit from this institution, concur in this vote.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, he knew a parish in Hampshire which brought not less than 750 l. l. l.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  presented a Petition from the Presbyterians of the county of Down, signed by 800 persons praying for the Abolition of Tithe, not only in substance but in name, and altogether denying the truth of the statement made by the noble Member for Down (Lord Castlereagh), that the Presbyterians of that county were willing to pay tithe. He was proud of the Presbyterians of
 1173 Regium Donum Regium Donum
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that even if his noble Friend had not appealed to him so directly, sitting there as he did, the Representative for the University which was so much interested in the subject of this petition, the House would expect him to say something on the subject. His noble Friend had stated the amount of tithes re-
 1166 l. l. l. l. 1167 l. bonâ fide Stanley: 1168 1169 l. l. 1170 plus minus l. l. l.
 Sir Robert Peel  did not mean to detain the House by entering into any details with respect to the vote which he meant to propose. Such a course, under existing circumstances was wholly unnecessary, and, as a Select Committee had been appointed and were now sitting, for the purpose of inquiring into every matter connected with the expense of keeping up the British Museum, that was an additional reason why he should not detain them by unnecessary statements on the present occasion. The House, however, would hear with satisfaction, he had no doubt, that the public advantage derived from this institution was on the increase, and this would be apparent from a comparison of the two last years. In 1833, the number of visitors was 210,000, and in 1834, 237,000. The readers were in the former year 58,800, and in the latter 70,266, while the students in sculpture, during the interval he had mentioned, had increased from 4,490 to 5,645. The right hon. Baronet concluded by moving that a sum not less than 17,796 l.
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  said, that when he was in office it had been found that the expense incurred by removing the stores, had been larger than estimated by a sum approaching 4,000 l.
 Lord Castlereagh  wished only to say a few words, and expressed his obligation to the hon. Member for Dundalk for contradicting the statement he (Lord Castlereagh) had made on a former day, that the Presbyterians of the county of Down were anxious to maintain the tithe system. The petition would carry with it whatever weight it deserved, and it certainly came from a body to the sentiments of which he was decidedly and constitution ally opposed. He was glad that they had found so able an advocate as the hon. Member for Dundalk. The petition went at once to the establishment of the voluntary principle; and upon that, and upon the Question of the  Regium Donum 1174
 Mr. Gilbert J. Heathcote  had a Petition to present, to which he would call the particular attention of the House. It related to the subject of Tithes, and contained a complaint against a most respectable Clergyman of the Church of England, for harsh conduct in the mode of enforcing payment of his tithes. It was with much regret that he felt himself called upon, in the performance of a public duty, to impugn the conduct of this Gentleman, who was non-resident. He should, in the few observations he would make, endeavour to discharge his duty in a way least offensive to the feelings of the individual. The petition was that of an individual, John Gibbins, residing in the parish of Long Sutton, in the county of Lincoln. He was a farmer and grazier, a most respectable man, and quite incapable of deceiving him. Before he had presented the petition he had acted with the greatest fairness towards the Clergyman, for he had written to him on the subject, and delayed presenting it till that Gentleman was fully informed of the nature of the petition. The petitioner stated, that his lands lay in five different parishes, in all of which he paid tithe. The boundaries of these parishes were undefined, the consequence of which was, that he was sometimes called upon by one Clergyman to pay tithe which he had previously paid to another. Some differences on the subject of tithe arose between him and the Rev. Mr. Bennet, the vicar of Long Sutton and of another parish, and a correspondence
 1198
 Mr. Russell  said, he did not rise for the purpose of impeaching the petition; but as it contained very serious allegations against a most respectable Clergyman, he felt it is duty to make a few observations upon it, and to give to the petition the short answer to its allegations which he had received from the Clergyman himself. He was not only the Vicar of this parish, but the lay impropriator of the tithes. They were his hereditary property, his fee-simple estate. It was not from any feeling of personal hostility to the petitioner, but for the purpose of protecting his just rights, that he instituted proceedings at law against him at the recommendation of his law adviser. As the matter was now depending in a Court of Justice it was not quite fair on the part of his opponent to present a petition, which might prejudice a cause now in a course of legal investigation, The Rev, Mr. Bennet, in
 1199
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  though t it unadvisable to enter upon the discussion of the measure until it was fairly before the House, for how was it possible for them to judge either of its principles or details? It was not, of course, his intention to offer any resistance to the hon. Member for Water-ford's Motion; but with respect to what had fallen from his right hon. Friend (he hoped he would allow him to call him so) opposite, he must say that it was not a little singular that he should now disapprove of that which had received the approbation of his friends. The late Government proposed to do justice to the views of those by whom the present Board of Education in Ireland had been established; for not only had they expressed their intention of adopting the plan, but of extending it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the resolution had the entire sanction of his Majesty's present Government, but as some misapprehension seemed to prevail on the subject he wished to assure the House that no effort or pains had been
 1235
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that it was all very well for hon. Gentlemen filling official situations to speak with mildness of the conduct of Spain and Portugal, but for his part, unconnected as he was with office, he thought no language that could be used, in reference to the course pursued by those powers with respect to this trade, too strong. They had been guilty, to say the least of it, of a gross violation of national faith in lending their flags for such a purpose; and he, therefore, thought it was the duty of that Mouse not only to speak distinctly, but to call upon the Government of this country to insist upon having the stipulations of these treaties fulfilled. He hoped that the treaties now pending would be carried into effect; but, at all events, he trusted that the example which this country set would have the effect of ultimately putting an end to this horrible traffic.
 Mr. Pryme  said, that he could not see any advantage that would be gained by breaking up those vessels, since they must become useless if the trade was abolished.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that it would be in the recollection of the House, that the right hon. Baronet who preceded him in the office he had the honour to hold, had estimated the probable surplus of the year to be 250,000 l., l., l. 1239 l., l., l. l.
 Mr. Pryme  suggested the propriety of introducing a sort of scale by which a license duty might be imposed in proportion to the quantity of spirits sold or consumed by the publican. He would have the house which had sold a certain quantity during the year, to pay a certain duty. He trusted that, whatever was the plan of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, it would take away the inequality that existed. He was not contented with a diminution of the duty on spirits, because he conceived that if it could be done away with consistently with the prevention of smuggling, it would be difficult to say what duty should be laid on in its stead.
 Sir George Strickland  was gratified at hearing the declaration of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and he hoped that his Majesty's Ministers would come to the determination of getting rid of the present mode of levying this tax, as great excitement prevailed on the subject. The only satisfactory way of setting the question at rest was by charging for the licence in proportion to the quantity of spirits consumed.
 Mr. Mark Phillips  supported the principle of the Motion, and trusted that relief would be afforded. At the same time as the subject was to be taken into consideration by his Majesty's Government, he would not go into the question which he was prepared to do, and to prove that the tax was most partial and most unjust.
 Mr. Hodges  wished also to bear his testimony to the general feeling that prevailed as to the unfairness of the present system.
 Sir William Rae  was fully aware that any hon. Gentleman possessed the undoubted right to introduce any measures for the improvement of the constitution of the Courts of Justice in Scotland; at the same time he begged the House to recollect, before they sanctioned any measure of the kind, that within the last few years a Commission had been appointed to inquire into the subject, and the Commissioners had made a Report thereon. He had brought in a Bill embracing the important points, and it had been referred to a Committee up stairs. He thought the hon. Gentleman therefore
 1243
 The Lord Advocate  thought the House would be disposed to allow his hon. Friend who had collected a vast deal of important information on this subject, to bring in his Bills. It did not appear to him that it would be any impediment for his hon. Friend to bring in Bills more extensive in their nature than the measure before contemplated, and the result might be, that great advantage would accrue. Believing that his hon. Friend did not mean his Bills to be an obstacle to any other proposition that might arise from the suggestions of the Select Committee, he should support the Motion.
 Mr. Sinclair  considered the Motion of the hon. Gentleman unnecessary and premature. It was unnecessary, because the subject was already in the hands of the officers of the Crown; and it was premature, because no final Report had been made by the Committee.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  saw no objection to the introduction of these Bills. He did not agree with his hon. Friend as to all the great changes he would effect, but believed that many most valuable hints might be obtained from the information he had received; and it was better that it should be embodied in the shape of a Bill than that it should be laid before the Committee in a desultory manner. He saw no more convenient mode of putting the House in possession of the information than the one now proposed.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he entirely concurred as to the general principle laid down by his hon. Friend. He was quite satisfied, whatever objections might be raised against this particular proposition, that with respect to the general principle, the constituency out of doors, and not the constituency only, but the whole body of the public, had a full and perfect right to be informed of all the proceedings of this House. It was true that the vote of a Member without explanation accompanying it might, in a good many instances, be misconstrued, but while he admitted this, he must say that it was not by rejecting a proposition for making their votes known that the explanations would be rendered less necessary. Generally speaking, the vote would sufficiently explain itself. He was quite sure, as regarded the operation of such a principle, that a Government or a House of Commons willing to do right had nothing to fear from a knowledge of its proceedings being possessed by the constituency. He therefore assented to his hon. Friend's general principle, and the only difficulty he felt was as to its practical application. If it had not been for the misfortune which had placed them in this temporary building, he, for one, should have been ready to acquiesce in the proposition of his hon. Friend; but he felt that there might be some inconvenience from entertaining any question of building now. They had already appointed a Building Committee to act in conjunction with a similar Committee of the other House. Of that Committee he had only within these few days become a member, therefore he was not prepared to say, nor indeed would it be right of him to anticipate the Report—how far the proposed scheme might or might not interfere with some views which the Committee entertained. Under these circumstances, he would suggest to his hon. Friend whether the better course would
 1246
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that there was a course which might, he thought, be properly taken under the circumstances in which the House was placed, and which, he thought, would meet their wish, as well as the views of the hon. Member for Bridport. He took it for granted (though it might not be perfectly regular to do so) that the Committee on Divisions had affirmed the principle contended for by the hon. Member opposite, and that the Building Committee had coincided in the expediency of carrying that principle into practice. The only question, therefore, now appeared to be, at what period it was proper that the intended plan should be adopted. He recommended that they should suspend all further proceedings on this subject until the next meeting of the Building Committee; and that, in the meantime, a communication should be made to Sir R. Smirke, directing that he should have a plan ready to submit to the Committee,
 1248 Warburton:
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  felt much gratified at the tone and manner in which the proposition had been received, and he hoped that they all would continue to pursue as a common object the realization of the greatest possible amount of good for the country. He wished just to observe, that the alteration of fees payable to attornies practising in those courts was a subject which ought not to be lightly dealt with, fearing as he did, that it might open the door to an indefinite amount of reduction.
 Mr. Tynte  expressed his concurrence in the Motion, and his gratitude to the right hon. Mover. He had no doubt whatever that the result of the labours of the Committee would give general satisfaction.
 Mr. Gilbert Heathcote , in reply to the observations of the hon. Member for the Kilmarnock district of Burghs, begged to assure him that the agriculturists of the country were perfectly competent to take care of their own concerns; and that when they wished to consult any one apart from their interest, the hon. Member would be one of the last persons to whom they would apply for advice.
 Mr. Lynch  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to extend the Jurisdiction, and regulate the proceedings of the Civil Bill Courts in Ireland. He would not trespass at any length on the patience of the House, as he did not anticipate any opposition to the introduction of the Bill; and as the alterations which he meant to introduce consisted chiefly of details, such details would be better understood by hon. Members upon the Second Reading of the Bill, when it was printed, than by any explanation of his without a copy of the Bill in their hands. It was universally admit-
 1249 l. quantum meruit, l., l. l., l. 1250 l. 1251 l.
 Mr. Charles Barclay  was extremely glad that the Chancellor of the Exchequer
 1240
 Colonel Sibthorp  was by no means satisfied with the declaration of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as it appeared to him to be nothing more than the shadow of a promise. The present mode of charging the licence-duty was deeply injurious to the poorer classes of licensed victuallers, as well as to the innkeepers. He could not help feeling that the mode in which matters were then discussed in the House was very objectionable. They had been sitting for three months, and yet they had not done one single act to afford the least satisfaction to the country. Certainly the proceeding of reinstating their friends in office was anything but satisfactory to the country, notwithstanding any opinion Gentlemen opposite might entertain on the subject.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  rose, to move for the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the present state of the Trade in Corn, between the Channel Islands and the United Kingdom. The object of his Motion was to inquire into the nature of the Trade in Corn, between this Country and the Channel Islands, as much with the view of ascertaining how far the complaint made last year, of a quantity of corn having been surreptitiously introduced into this country from the Channel Islands, were founded in fact, as for the purpose of general legislation on the subject. On those complaints being originally made, the Commissioners of Customs sent over persons to institute an inquiry, and a report was made by them, which showed that the average exportation of Corn from thence in a period of five years was little more than 2,000 qrs. The right hon. Gentleman who preceded him in office, had given notice of a Bill for regulating the exportation of Corn from these Islands, as well as the introduction of Foreign Corn into them; but circumstances had intervened, which caused its postponement. It was natural for the inhabitants of these Islands, when they saw attacked a privilege which they possessed by Charter, and which was confirmed by Act of Parliament—the exemption from duty on Foreign Corn—to call for an inquiry into the facts connected with the case, before any legislation should take place on it; and he considered that it was but strict justice to them, to accede to their wishes in that respect, and institute an investigation into all the circumstances. This inquiry would form the labours of the Committee which he prayed
 1254
 Mr. Carruthers  was prepared to have
 1241
 Mr. Divett , after presenting Petitions from the Licensed Victuallers of Exeter, Stockport, South Shields, and various other Places, praying for the Repeal of the Additional Duty on Spirit Licenses, observed, that he intended to move, that the Act by which that additional duty was imposed, and which he was sure the House would never have passed if they could have anticipated the extensive injury and oppression it had led to, should be taken into consideration in a Committee of the whole House. It would be in the recollection of the House, that under the 6th George 4th, cap. 81, a scale of duty was imposed on spirit-houses, commencing with houses rated under 10 l., l., l. 1237 l. l.
 Mr. Divett  would, with permission of the House, withdraw his Motion, trusting to the known desire of his right hon. Friend to afford every practicable relief.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  could assure the noble Lord that, as far as it had been tried, the experiment had been most successful, though the Protestant gentry of Ireland had done all in their power to defeat the success of the plan.
 Mr. Kelly  had not understood the right hon. Gentleman to promise to repeal the present duty on Spirit Licences either wholly or in part; he therefore hoped the hon. Member for Exeter would persevere in his Motion. This tax in some respects differed from any other. The question was not, whether they would repeal a tax which had existed for a long series of years, and which could not be got rid of without danger to the whole system of taxation; but whether they would repeal a tax which had recently been put on, and which ought never to have been imposed. This tax was not only partial in its operation, but it pressed on a class of persons already overburdened with taxation.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that although he did not approve of the present system of Irish national education, and perhaps might not give his assent to the scheme of the hon. Member for Waterford, he still would offer no opposition to the present Motion. His opinion of the present system of the Board of Education in Ireland was, that it had neutralized rather than promoted the object which it was designed to accomplish. In all such cases, however, the great difficulty was to hit upon any plan of national education which would be satisfactory alike to all parties.
 Mr. Shaw  agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman, that the administration of justice ought to be expeditious and simple, but if they went too far, they might instead of extending the jurisdiction of these courts, destroy their beneficial effects altogether. At present the Assistant-Barrister could practise in the courts above; if his salary and his duties were
 1252
 Mr. Robinson  said, that it was not enough to tell them that Spain and Portugal had evinced a disposition to put an end to this trade. Both those powers, but more particularly Portugal, were bound to do so; and he, therefore, hoped the governments of those countries would be speedily induced to look into a subject
 1236
 Mr. Robinson  contended that it was not only the duty of the House to see that not more than was absolutely necessary was taken from the pockets of the people, but also that the taxes fell equally and fairly on all classes. The present duty was unequal and unfair, and therefore ought to be got rid of. The Chancellor of the Exchequer met that by saying, that he could not afford to give up any portion of the revenue. He was a perfect adept in the art of all his former predecessors in deprecating any interference on the part of this House with the peculiar duties of his office; but the right hon. Gentleman must excuse him, for observing, that if there was any one duty which they owed to their electors more than another, it was to take care that not only the taxes were not greater in amount than absolutely necessary; but that in their operation they were as equally distributed as possible. The whole of the fiscal system was founded upon a most vicious principle, viz.: not as to who are best able to pay the taxes, but in what way the Government can get the money with the greatest possible facility. But as the right hon. Gentleman had almost pledged himself, he hoped that the Member for Exeter would consent to withdraw his Motion, on the understanding that the right hon. Gentleman in some part of the Session would introduce a measure upon the subject. On the part of his constituents, he, for one, would not offer any objection, but rest perfectly satisfied with that arrangement.
 Mr. Aglionby  remarked, that the Building Committee had been appointed, not with reference to the temporary House, but for the purpose of superintending the erection of the permanent Houses of Parliament. He could not, therefore, see that any object could be accomplished by referring this Question, which affected the present House, to the consideration of the Building Committee.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that such an expression of opinion as they had just heard, coming as it did from a Chancellor of the Exchequer, and declaring in favour of an important principle, as well as announcing a wish for its application, would be considered of great value. But although the right hon. Gentleman had expressed his approval of the principle, he seemed to be satisfied to allow its execution to be deferred for a period of three years, as the new building could not in all probability be erected in a shorter space of time. The right hon. Gentleman should bear in mind, too, that an experiment similar to that proposed by the hon. Member for St. Alban's had been tried during the last Session; and although he (Mr. Warburton) was the proposer of that plan, he did not hesitate to say, that the trial of the method of taking divisions which he had suggested did not prove altogether unsuccessful, inasmuch as it had only been made twice, and upon the second occasion a half minute only on his calculation had been lost. He was perfectly willing, however, to adopt the opinion of the Committee which had sat upon this subject, that the best course to pursue would be to have a lobby made in the manner explained by the hon. Member for St. Alban's; a mode of taking divisions which ought in his opinion to be tried as speedily as possible in the present House, with a view of ascertaining whether it was one which it might be expedient to adopt in the House which it was proposed to erect. The right hon. Gentleman appeared to entertain some apprehension that the adoption of such a resolution as that proposed might interfere with the proceedings of the Building Committee. He could state that all his fears on that head were perfectly groundless; for the resolution of the Committee on divisions had been communicated to the Building Committee,
 1247 l., l.
 Dr. Bowring  expressed his satisfaction and entire concurrence, with the principle of the Motion. The result of the labours of the Committee would have a twofold effect: they would first teach an important lesson to those who spoke on such matters without information—a circumstance greatly to be desired in consequence of the mass of misrepresentation which had been made on the subject; and, secondly, it would, he trusted, prove to the full satisfaction of the agricultural community that the Corn Laws were the cause of all their distress.
 Mr. Roebuck  presented a Petition from Leeds, signed by 700 persons, and several others from places the names of which did not reach us, against the Stamp Duties on Newspapers. The lion, and learned Gentleman, in supporting the petitions, said that the desire expressed in them had now become very general throughout the country, and he trusted that his Majesty's Ministers would, without further delay, accede to the popular feeling. It appeared, indeed, to be conceived by Government that certain existing fiscal regulations prevented them from taking off these duties; and this argument the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer and his predecessors had always put forward. For his (Mr. Roebuck's) own part, however, he was convinced that if the Stamp Duties on Newspapers were taken off, the increase of the duty on paper and on advertisements would more than make up the deficiency. It was necessary that the people of this country should have an adequate
 1197 The Examiner The Standard.
 Mr. Hume  seconded the Motion, and said that he concurred in every part of the resolution except that which stipulated for the destruction of the ships engaged in the Slave Trade, which might be captured. As these vessels could be used for other purposes, he did not see the advantage of destroying them; but with respect to all the other parts of the resolution he wished to see them carried into full effect.
 Mr. Hume  said, that as the right hon. Gentleman seemed to wish to equalize the duty, he thought it would not be fair to press the Motion on the present occasion. He really thought, however, that the Bill for the increase of the duty was brought in under false pretences: the tax was not so much put on to increase the revenue, as to serve, as was supposed, the cause of morality by making spirits not so easily accessible.
 Mr. Hume  was of opinion that it was perfectly competent for the Government to decide upon this matter without the interference of the Building Committee. He was persuaded that the right hon. Gentleman must see that the lobby would not at all interfere with the new buildings, and the proposed experiment thereon should, in his opinion, at once be made.
 Mr. Pease  approved of the Motion, While the Corn Laws existed he thought they should be enforced. He considered that the importation of foreign grain, in quantities however small, seriously injured the home market.
 Mr. Ridley Colborne  was of opinion that it was but justice to the Government to allow it a week to determine upon this alteration.
 Mr. Sheil  had no difficulty in saying that the House and the country must acknowledge themselves indebted to his hon. and learned Friend, for his present exertions to improve the Civil Bill Courts. It was his opinion—nor was he singular in thinking so—that those Courts should have jurisdiction in all matters of equity. Surely the poor man should not be refused justice in cases where he was unable to defray the expense of going to the Court of Chancery or the Court of Exchequer. Ought a man for the sake of a small mortgage, or a 5 l. 1253
 Mr. Sheil  said, that whatever colour the Irish Conservatives (of all Conservatives the most unqualified) might endeavour to give to the adoption by Sir Robert Peel's Government of the Education Commission, the facts were too stubborn, and too little capable of denial, to admit of the exercise of any evasive ingenuity on the part of those who now endeavoured
 1230 Evening Mail protegés 1231 l. 1232
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  wished to explain to his hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex, and the House, why it was he wished to have all slave vessels captured destroyed. The fact was, that, being fitted up in a peculiar manner, they were unfit for any other employment, and, therefore, if they were not broken up, the chances were, that they would be again applied to their original purpose.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton , with the permission of the House, would postpone the Motion of which he had given notice respecting the treatment of the Aborigines in the British settlements, and proceed with that on the subject of the Slave Trade. The resolution which he formerly proposed, was objected to on account of its length; but he thought that his present Motion would obtain the assent of every hon. Gentleman present, inasmuch as it was not only short, but contained all that could be desired. He had on the former occasion gone at some length into the facts of the case, and as the matter must be fresh in the recollection of every hon. Gentleman present, he had little more to do now than call the attention of the House to the enormous extent to which this trade was carried on at the present moment. In fact the Slave Trade was as active now as ever it had been, though treaties for putting an end to this inhuman traffic had been formed with foreign nations. Spain and Portugal, in particular, had weighty pecuniary considerations for adhering to the solemn engagements which they had entered into with us; but, instead of keeping faith, as they were bound to have done, those Powers, he was sorry to say, had grossly violated their treaties by allowing the Slave Trade to be carried on under their respective flags. No one could conceive the horrors of this dreadful traffic, and, if it were necessary, he could go into details of the most striking and painful nature. It was not, however, expedient that he should do so, and, therefore, all he should now say was, that the address which he was about to propose was couched in temperate language, perhaps more temperate than he should have used if negotiations were not going on which he had no wish, by any harshness of expression, to impede or interrupt. He must say, however, that if this trade were not speedily put an end to by peaceful means he hoped the Government would feel it their duty to repress it by force. The hon. Gentleman moved—
 1234 "That an humble address be presented to his Majesty, to inform his Majesty that this House has learned with deep regret, from the documents which have been laid before it, that the traffic in slaves still continues to be carried on, under the protection of the flags of foreign nations, particularly under those of Spain and Portugal, to an extent almost as great as at any former period of its existence, and attended with circumstances of additional cruelty and horror. "That this House particularly calls the attention of his Majesty to the conduct hitherto pursued by the governments of Spain and Portugal, who are bound not only by the most solemn treaties, but by the payment of large sums of money, and the remission of debts due to this country, totally to abolish this nefarious traffic. "That this House, with a view to put an end to this iniquitous and detestable trade, humbly beseeches his Majesty to enter into negotiations with his allies, for the purpose of revising all the treaties having for their object the suppression of this traffic, in order to reduce the terms and stipulations contained therein into one solemn league between all the high contracting parties, and to introduce it into such general treaty. "First, An extension of the limit to the right of search to the whole of the western and eastern coasts of Africa and the Island of Madagascar, and to such distance from these coasts as shall ensure the capture of all slaves; and an agreement, that this right of search shall be reciprocal between all the high contracting parties. "Secondly, That the right of seizure shall be extended to vessels equipped for the purposes of trading in slaves, although not actually having slaves on board. "Thirdly, An agreement that all such vessels as may be condemned by the mixed Commission Courts shall forthwith be broken up, or otherwise effectually destroyed; and, "Fourthly, A stipulation that the trade in slaves shall be declared piracy."
 Mr. Wyse  rose to move, pursuant to a notice giver at the beginning of this Session, for leave to bring in a Bill for the establishing a Board of National Education, to promote the advancement of Elementary Education in Ireland; the first of a series of measures which he trusted he might be permitted, as circumstances should allow, to submit to the House for the amelioration, more general diffusion, and permanent support of education in that country. He had placed his
 1200 1201 1202 ordonnance 1203 1204 1205 1206 1207 1208 1209 l. s. d., s. d. s. 1210 l. 1211 1212 s. 1213 coup de main. l. l. 1214 l., tactique suavitèr in modo fortitèr in re. 1215 1216 1217 1218 ex officio 1219 1220 ordonnances 1221 1222 pernicies barathrumque l. 1223 l. l. 1224 1225 1226 1227 bureaucracy, 1228
 Mr. William S. O'Brien  seconded the Motion, and said the country would feel indebted to the hon. Member for Water-ford for being the first to lay before the House a national system of education. Every system of education now prevailing in this country was either formed by chance or owed its origin to the liberality of private individuals. No system was provided by the Government. In this respect England was far behind other countries, and we were obliged to go to foreign nations in order to get information, and to consult their experience on the subject. They had, it was true, a Board of Education in Ireland, but as yet its operation was partial and imperfect. He thought, however, that his hon. Friend ought to be encouraged in his efforts on this subject, and no one he believed would controvert him when he asserted that it was the bounden duty of England to provide a proper system of education for the people of Ireland. He was satisfied that the adoption of his hon. Friend's proposition would lead to the best possible results. His scheme was a noble and comprehensive one, and feeling convinced that it was calculated to raise the moral and social condition of the people, it should have his best support.
 Mr. Ward  rose to call the attention of the House to the Report of the Select Committee on Divisions. He said the House was no doubt aware of the nature of the recommendations of the Committee. In the first place, the Committee repeated the opinion of a previous Committee, viz., that it was not in its power at present to recommend any system which appeared free from all objection. The Committee, or he as Chairman of the Committee received almost innumerable suggestions on the subject: the number of the correspondents was indeed ample proof of the interest
 1244 l. l. l. l. 1245
 Mr. Ward : After the unqualified approbation which my right hon. Friend has expressed of the principle of the proposed plan, I can have no hesitation in adopting his suggestion.
 Sir Robert Bateson  denied, in the most positive terms, either that the experiment had succeeded, or that the Protestant gentry were unfriendly to the cause of education. The present national system of education in Ireland was much opposed to the feelings and the opinions of the Presbyterians of the north that upon no account would they suffer their children
 1233
 Lord Morpeth  said, that he could not pretend to follow the hon. Member for Waterford through either the official documents or details into which he had entered; neither would he express any opinion as to the efficacy of the Board which it was the intention of his measure to establish. It was not, however, his desire to throw any impediments in the way of the introduction of this Bill, although he regarded the hon. Gentleman's undertaking as rather an ambitious one; but in sanctioning the Motion to bring in the Bill, he did so in the hope that some useful suggestions might be found to be contained in it.
 Lord Sandon  did not think, in the absence of all information which could warrant such a conclusion, that any one had a right to say that the late experiment on the subject of Irish education had been successful.
 Lord Sandon  seconded the Motion. He
 1238
 Sir George Clerk  was sure that the more frequently and fully this Question was discussed the greater success they would have in removing the groundless apprehensions of those unacquainted with Scotch affairs, as to the demands made upon the public purse. The hon. Member who had just sat down was, it appeared prepared at once to resist the appointment of a Committee. In such a view of the Question, those hon. Members who felt that an Established Church tended to advance the morality and religion of a country could not possibly join. If they had no doubt as to the advantages of such spiritual assistance, it could not be to them matter of indifference whether or not it was adequately afforded to the people. Now, the principal duty of the proposed Committee would be to ascertain whether at present there was sufficient Church accommodation for those who desired to avail themselves of it: and, if not, whether the Church of Scotland was in possession of any funds out of which such additional accommodation could be provided. This was no unusual claim. In 1818, a grant of one million was made towards the erection of Churches belonging to the national Establishment in the southern districts of the island, and in 1824 another grant of 500,000 l. 1266
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was at a loss to conceive what possible benefit could result from the adoption of the hon. Member for Lambeth's Motion. The Bill had already been read a second time, its principle had been fully recognized by the House, and now in the regular order of things its details came to be considered in Committee. What advantage (unless delay were to be regarded as an advantage) could possibly attend its being referred to a Select Committee, remained for the hon. Member for Lambeth to prove. When the Bill went into Committee it would be open to any hon. Gentleman to object to any of its provisions, or, if he thought fit, to propose new ones.
 Mr. Goulburn  intended to vote for the Bill going into Committee of the whole
 1278
 Mr. O'Connell  deprecated all legislation on this subject. Piety was not to be enforced by Act of Parliament. It flourished most when left to the free operation of higher motives than the fear of legal pains and penalties.
 The Attorney General  was very desirous that there should be one age named at which both sorts of property should be disposable by parties. He would agree to the feeling of the majority of the Committee, whether the age should be twenty-one in reference to both, or twenty-one in reference to realty, and seventeen as to personalty, but he certainly thought individuals should not be allowed to dispose of personalty under seventeen years of age. As the law at present stood, children of ten, twelve, or fourteen years old might will away money to any amount, provided they were of sound mind.
 Dr. Lushington  said, there could not be a greater anomaly in the law than that which told them that a person might not dispose of real property to the amount of 40 s. l.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the law, as it then stood, was a disgrace to national justice. There was no rule as to personal property: the court decided whether the party was competent: that was certainly the worst mode of legislating upon the case: that state of the law had been endured to the present year; and really it was not creditable to England that it had been suffered so long. Now they had come to remedy it, by striking out the anomaly which had been adopted for ages. A person could dispose of personal property, or chattel interest, to any amount whatsoever. It was proposed now to correct the anomaly by diminishing the power, that is, by keeping from a person the disposal of his property so far as related to chattel interests, till he was seventeen, and increasing the power so far as related to real property by lowering the age at which it could be disposed of to seventeen. The only question for the House was whether it were better to give the dominion over real property, or to take it away from chattel property. The hon. Member had convinced him that the method proposed by this Bill was the best way to remedy the anomaly, and he should certainly oppose the Amendment.
 Dr. Nichol  said, that he thought the present law fixed a very fair age, and he should support the Amendment of his learned Friend.
 Sir George Strickland  observed, that the reason the age of twenty-one had been recommended by some Members was plainly this, that that age was fixed on for a variety of other purposes, that in the minds of the community at large it was regarded as the age of competency, and that the grounds of any departure from it would not be admitted as valid by people in general, and would lead to uncertainty and dissatisfaction. He preferred the Amendment, leaving the law as it stood, or making the age twenty-one for all, to the alteration proposed by the Bill.
 The Solicitor General  was sensible of the difficulty of drawing a line, but he thought that the suggestion of his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Exeter, would put the law on the best footing, that is, if the age of twenty-one were fixed upon as the disposing age for both species of property. He agreed that seventeen would not satisfy the community at large, because it would be comprehensible to very few. As to the idea
 1285
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  professed himself favourable to seventeen or eighteen, rather than to twenty-one. There was no analogy between the act of disposing of property by will and by contract, since it was one thing for a man to indulge his inclinations, and quite another to form a sound judgment respecting the equivalent which he might receive in any given contract. As to the mischiefs that might arise from capricious and absurd wills, experience had proved that they were much more frequent amongst the very old than amongst the very young. Inasmuch as a minor might become a parent, the privilege of disposing of his property as he thought proper amongst his own offspring ought not to be denied to him.
 Mr. Lynch  supported the Amendment. He admitted that it took away a right, but it did so for the purpose of conferring a general advantage, making the law what it should ever be, uniform.
 Mr. Bernal  contended that they ought to deal with personal property in the same manner as with real. It should be recollected that in modern times the great mass of the property of the country was personal; the national debt leases for 999 years were all chattels. In former times, personal property existed only in name; consisting only in a few hoarded ingots of gold and silver, or anything of that kind; but now personal property was often more valuable even than real. He agreed with the Member for Dublin as to the necessity of uniformity, but they must fix upon an arbitrary period: he thought the age of twenty-one was best, because it opposed a greater barrier and security against undue influence. Looking at the habits of the youth of both sexes in this kingdom, he would put it to the Committee whether it would not be more consistent with the general welfare of the community to restrain the power of disposing chattel property until the age of twenty-one, rather than extend it? At twenty-one it was probable that a great many of the errors of sixteen or seventeen would be seen and avoided, for two or three years caused a great change in the mind of young people at that period of life. Every parent and guardian knew that at seventeen their
 1286
 Mr. Charles Buller  observed, that wills and contracts were matters essentially different, and the feelings of the young were as much in accordance with those of persons of mature age, as the feelings of those far advanced in life. Besides that, the power of making wills often operated most advantageously on the Law of Primogeniture; he was therefore unwilling to agree to anything tending to circumscribe that power.
 Sir William Follett,  in reply to the hon. and learned Member for Kircudbright, said, that the Amendment certainly went to take away a vested right; but then the original clause, which the hon. and learned Member supported in opposition to it, was to precisely the same effect. With respect to the age of seventeen, nothing could be urged in its favour. It was entirely unknown to the law of the country, while twenty-one was recognised in almost every legal Act referring to person or property. If, therefore, the law, in a majority of cases, fixed upon twenty-one as the age of perfect capacity, why depart from it in the present instance? Why not equalize that to the other? There was no more magic in the age of twenty-one than in that of seventeen; but as a time should be drawn somewhere, it would, for all useful purposes, be best to fix it at a period which everyone recognized, and which common-sense acknowledged.
 Mr. Warburton  said, the real question at issue was the age at which individuals were competent to devise their personal property; and it was one which, whether lawyers or not, hon. Members would find no difficulty in resolving. In adopting the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Exeter, he was clearly of opinion, that the Committee would be legislating against the natural feelings of
 1287
 Mr. Law  suggested, that the introduction of the word "unmarried" into one part of the clause, would meet the view of the last speaker—giving the testamentary power to married, and taking it away from unmarried persons under the age of twenty-one.
 The Attorney-General  thought, that under the age of twenty-one, there was great danger of an improper disposition of property. For that reason, as well as the universality of twenty-one, and the uniformity it gave to legal processes, he should support the Amendment.
 The Attorney-General  said, the object of the Bill was, to remove the reproach arising from the anomalous condition of testamentary law and power at present existing. A will, conveying a trifling freehold, was not good unless attested by three witnesses, while copyhold might be conveyed by a will to which there were no witnesses, or by a will sufficient to bequeath personalty; and a will disposing of l,000,000 l. 1289
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  thought, that a holograph paper, duly signed and dated by the testator was a more solemn act than any will which could be drawn by professional men. Such documents too afforded little room for fraud; and he had never heard of a holograph forgery. It was clearly much easier to force a single signature than an entire instrument, which was in favour of holograph wills. Exclusively of this consideration, a holograph was the authentic will of the testator, not dictated by others. He approved therefore of giving validity to holographs.
 Dr. Lushington  said, that as he understood the Amendment of his learned Friend, (Dr. Nicholl) it was, to recognize the validity of a will, signed and dated by the testator himself, in his own hand writing, purporting to be his own words; and that such Bill, should be valid, and of full effect. He objected to it, inasmuch as it created a distinction, with respect to the disposition by will of real and personal estates, which had no foundation whatever. He objected also to the words in his hon. and learned Friend's Amendment—"purporting to bequeath personal estate," for
 1290
 Mr. O'Connell  said some alteration must take place, the clause gave only the same power in both kinds of property: it simplified the case, as it respected real property, and established that which related to personal, and on these accounts was very advantageous: learned Members wished to facilitate the making of wills: he did not. A man was called upon to make a will, just at the time when he was least able, and most liable to undue influence. He thought, therefore, the clause as it then stood, was an excellent one, as simplifying the process and diminishing the number of wills.
 Mr. Wallace  objected to the principle of the Bill altogether. He could never consent to the sanction of that House being given to the clause, declaring that Impressment was part of the law of the land. It was a practice to which no class whatever of his Majesty's subjects should be liable; but if any one class were to be liable to it, all classes should be so. He was persuaded that in the event of a war, it would be impossible to enforce Impressment, without the occurrence of scenes which it made the blood curdle to think
 1291
 Mr. Buckingham  observed that he had given notice of an Amendment on the second reading of the Bill, but it had since occurred to him that it would come with more propriety at another stage of the Measure. He entirely agreed with the honourable Member who had just spoken; and he would now give notice that on the Motion for the Bill's going into the Committee he would move that it be an instruction to the Committee to omit all that part of the Bill which gave any legal power to the Crown to enforce the practice of Impressment against any class of his Majesty's subjects.
 Mr. O'Connell  participated entirely in the feelings expressed by the hon. Member for Leeds, as to the propriety of their respecting the sentiments of their constituents, and certainly a lecture upon that subject came particularly well from the hon. Member for St. Andrew's. It was on that account he had made a grave, speech, because his constituents were fond of a hearty laugh. In his opinion there was a species of gravity more injurious and more contemptuous than any laughter; for it was upon that that persecution was founded. The best way to meet bigotry was by turning it into ridicule. The Inquisition was introduced in other countries under the mask of seriousness, and God forbid that under the same pretence persecution should be attempted in this country. The time was gone by when they could attempt to institute piety by Act of Parliament. After all that had been said, he would ask the hon. Member if he thought he could ever pass his Bill through a British House of Commons? He most sincerely hoped that they should never hear more of it. There was a question lately before Lord Jeffery as to whether a barber's boy was obliged to shave his master's customers upon Sunday, and the Scotch Courts had given as their judgement that he was not obliged to shave.
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  having been pointedly alluded to by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, begged the indulgence of the House while he, in a few words, explained the situation in which he had been placed. It was quite true that a considerable number of his constituents were not pleased at the vote which he had given in opposition to Lord J. Russell's motion on the Irish Church, and had called upon him upon that account to resign his seat as their Representative. In these circumstances, not trusting to his own judgment in a matter so personal, he determined upon taking the advice of those in whose opinion he himself as well as his constituents felt confidence. He accordingly laid a statement of his case before Lord John Russell, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets, and put the question to those Gentlemen, whether in the circumstances he was bound to resign. The noble Lord and the two gentlemen whom he had named gave it as
 1283
 Mr. Hawes , having commenced the discussion, indignantly repelled the accusation of the hon. Gentleman. It was rather too much for that hon. Gentleman to take upon himself to impeach the conduct of that House and of individuals who had as good a right as himself to express
 1282
 Mr. Hawes  asked whether the hon. Gentleman meant to put down coffee-shops and the sale of newspapers on the Sabbath-day?
 Mr. Hawes  agreed to withdraw his Amendment, and would take the sense of the House upon the Question on the bringing up of the Report.
 Mr. Hawes  rose for the purpose of moving that it be referred to a Select Committee up stairs. He felt that the subject was one of considerable importance, and regretted that any petition should have been presented on the subject calculated to produce any feeling of levity. He was inclined to admit, that some day should be set apart for rest, and that encouragement should be offered to the due observance of the Sabbath. When the hon. Baronet for Wigton (Sir A. Agnew) formerly introduced his measure on this subject, he called it a Bill for the protection of the poor. Certainly, when seen, it was found to deserve any-
 1269 1270 Poulter 1271
 Mr. Charles Buller  said, that the only refreshments the hon. Member allowed the public to procure on Sunday, were medicines. He would not allow work for gain on Sunday. Now, his Bill would allow the rich to work for gain on that day; for the rich lawyers might carry on their chamber practice on that day—and these lawyers might be employed on that day in preparing a case for prosecuting the poor violators of it. Not only the lawyers, but the attorneys and their clerks might be safely employed on that day. So, then, a poor man was to be punished for buying or selling a halfpenny-worth of meal on a Sunday, and the Solicitor or Attorney-General, his attorneys, and their clerks might be safely engaged in preparing a prosecution against him, an occupation that the community might not think quite so innocent.
 Major Cumming Bruce  said, he would not reply to the observations of the hon. Member (Dr. Bowring) with respect to the voluntary principle. Into that question he would not enter at present. He derived much pleasure from the notice of motion given by his right hon. Friend (Sir W. Rae). The only satisfactory way for setting the question at rest was by inquiry before a Committee of that House. He lately received a letter from a person well acquainted with the subject, in which it was stated that in eight of the northern counties, the population of which was 321,925, there were out of the whole no more than 3,530 in communion with Dissenters, and acting upon the voluntary system. The same observation would apply to Nairn; and in Inverness the number of those in communion with the Church was five times as great as those in communion with the Dissenters. Much was said about the injurious and unjust nature of a tax to support an Established Church, from which those who paid the tax dissented. This was a novel doctrine, and it was the more strange when coming from the mouth of persons who did not oppose the principle of an Establishment. That House was in the habit, of voting large sums of money for education in Ireland, though vast numbers of the people were opposed to the principle on which the
 1263 1264
 Mr. Tulk  said, that if he thought this Bill was either intended or calculated to render more stringent that detestable Statute of Charles the Second, it should not have his vote: but it was because he considered it calculated to afford to the poor man that freedom from labour and that opportunity to partake of innocent recreations which he required on the Sabbath-day, that he should give it his support.
 Mr. Maclean  expressed his concurrence in the opinion, that if they interfered unnecessarily with the amusements of the people, they would take a pleasure in breaking, and make a point of breaking, the law. He was not aware that there was any foundation for the charge which had been made against the members of the legal profession. When the hon. Gentleman had reached that exalted legal station to which he no doubt very properly aspired, he would have an opportunity of resisting the temptation and refuting the accusation in his own person.
 Mr. Baines  had never heard a discussion in that House which he thought would prove so offensive to the public, from the tone of levity with which the subject had been discussed. He hoped the hon. Member would persevere with the Bill, and that his perseverance would be crowned with success.
 Mr. Robinson  thought as the principle of the Bill had been adopted already by the House, it would be hard on the hon. Member, who had bestowed so much pains upon it, not to allow it to go into Committee. The whole of the observations of the right hon. Baronet would have been much more appropriate if they had been made on the second reading of the Bill.
 Mr. G. F. Young  denied that he used a dictatorial term to the hon. Member, and surely the hon. Member was not exactly the person to charge any one with assuming too much, or with want of judgement, modesty, or discretion.
 Mr. G. F. Young  called the hon. Member to order. If he were not about to give notice of an amendment he should not enter into such a discussion.
 Mr. Warburton  thought that the adoption of such a Bill as the present would tend to bring all legislation upon the subject into disrespect. The hon. Member for Shaftesbury (Mr. Poulter) admitted that he had several amendments himself to make in the Bill; then why not give to all whose interests might be affected by the Bill an opportunity of stating their case before a Select Committee? The Report was not a fit one for consideration in a Committee of the whole House, because the exceptions to be proposed were completely matters of detail. As the Bill now stood, he (Mr. Warburton) was persuaded that all places of refreshment would fall within the provision of its penal clauses; and therefore, if passed in
 1274
 Mr. Stewart Mackenzie  declared that he was favourable to the grant. When it was shown that the spiritual wants of the
 1265
 Dr. Bowring  said, he had felt anxious to ascertain what were the feelings of his constituents upon this subject. Being sent there to represent the inhabitants of a part of Scotland, though not locally connected with it, he endeavoured to ascertain what were their feelings with respect to this grant. The majority of the petitions in favour of it from Scotland were not discussed in the face of day, at open meetings. It was not so with the petitions against it, which, he believed, represented the opinions of the great majority of the people. He was bound to say, that this was the case in the five boroughs which he had the honour of representing. A majority of them were unfavourable to the grant, and their opinions concurred with his own. He did not admit the justice of the principle that the few were to support the Church of the many. What the Dissenters of England, Scotland, and Ireland had done, and were doing, for religion arose from the purest motives, from a sense of Christian obligation and duty; and, having done so much, it was not fair to call upon them to maintain a religion from which they dissented. That would, indeed, be a happy day when every man might worship God in his own way, and give voluntary support to his religious instructors; then would the true millenium of Christianity begin—then would they see the Church, as it was in the early times of Christianity, effecting the moral good of the people through its own holy influences.
 Dr. Bowring  presented a Petition from Preston, signed by 4,500 inhabitants of that place, complaining of events which happened there during the last election, of the scenes of outrage and violence which were
 1267 1268
 Mr. Poulter  trusted, that the House would support him in his resistance to a most unreasonable proposition, proceeding from no other desire than that of obstructing, delaying, and defeating a moderate measure, which had been approved of by a large majority on the second reading. If it had at all resembled the Bill introduced by the hon. Baronet (Sir A. Agnew), there would have been ground for referring it to a select Committee. If it had contained numerous and extensive clauses—if it had attacked large classes of the
 1272
 Mr. Poulter  proposed to introduce the words "in an open shop," in order to obviate the objections which had been made to the Bill by the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel)
 Mr. Poulter  thought that coffee-shops ought not to be excepted out of the operation of this Bill. With respect to the sale of newspapers, certainly, as the Bill was at present framed, such sale would fall within the scope of its provisions. But it was competent for any hon. Mem-
 1279
 Mr. Poulter  said the word "Animals" was intended to prevent the sale of cattle in any way. He regretted that he had not heard the objections of the right hon. Baronet before, as he confessed he was at this moment unprepared to meet them. He thought, however, that means might be devised to obviate those objections. The words "in any open, shop or stall" might have that effect.
 Mr. Roebuck  said the hon. Member (Mr. Young) was in the habit of lecturing persons. But it would be well if his reprimands were more guided by judgement and discretion. He (Mr. Roebuck) would contend that the Bill was a punishment to the poor, and a perfect indemnity to the rich. If a rich man gave a dinner to twenty different persons on a Sunday, as was often the case, all these would have their coachmen, footmen, and grooms employed to attend; see then how many would be required to violate the Sabbath, in order to minister to the pleasures of a few. Yet a poor man, who had not a kitchen fire, or utensils to dress his breakfast or dinner, would be prevented from going to a coffee-shop or cook-shop on that day to get necessary food. Last year, when a similar Bill was before that House, a body of mechanics called on him, said they desirous of being orderly and hurting nobody, but if the House of Commons passed such a Bill, and showed such carelessness about their wants and and comforts, they would declare their feelings by openly breaking the Sabbath, for they would assemble in a body of 100,000, and dance and play.
 Mr. Roebuck  would equalise the law, so as to affect the rich as well as the poor. If public carriages were to be stopped on a Sunday, so should private vehicles; public carriages afforded comfort and means of conveyance to a greater number of persons than private, and yet employed
 1280
 Mr. Wilks  said, that on the right hon. Gentleman proposing his Committee he should certainly feel it his duty to resist it, on the part of the Dissenters of the United Kingdom. He never would consent to a Parliamentary grant in cases where the contribution should be private. The claim now made was really surprising. One hon. Gentleman told them 10,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  could not understand, if the Measure were good what possible objection the hon. Gentleman could have to referring it to a Select Committee. If its provisions were found reasonable, surely a little closer examination of them would not subject them to any danger. The hon. Gentleman had said, that the Bill, as it now stood, would not interfere with the interests of any class of the community; but he (Mr. Hume) had been assured by the market-gardeners in the neighbourhood of London, that if such a Bill were allowed to pass it would be utter ruin to them; because it
 1273
 Mr. Patrick Stewart  supported the prayer of the Petition for a grant, and observed that, although it had been industriously circulated that about three millions were required for building, and four millions for endowing Churches, the fact was that only a sum of 10,000 l. l.
 Mr. Potter  seconded the Amendment, after the Bill had been supported by a majority of the House on its second reading, it was not fit to throw it out without due consideration, and that consideration could be best given in a Committee upstairs. He knew that several Members had Amendments to propose which would create discussion, and might throw a certain degree of ridicule upon the Measure. He understood that the hon. Baronet intended to oppose the Amendment, because he thought that public discussion was useful; but surely it was a disadvantage that a question of this sort should be treated with any want of decorum. It was one great error of the Bill, that it attacked only the lower and middling classes. Such was the case with the Measure of the hon. Baronet, which went the length, however, in one clause, of preventing travelling on Sunday. He (Mr. Potter) wished to know why the hon. Baronet had not attempted to stop the mail; why, too, had he not endeavoured to shut up the Zoological Gardens on Sunday, as well as Hyde-park? The reason seemed obvious—that it would infringe upon the luxuries of the higher orders—the Members of the two Houses of Parliament.
 Mr. Potter  would beg to make another suggestion. The 29th of Charles 2nd prohibited the sale of flowers, fruits, and herbs, on Sunday; as many persons had a great taste for flowers, and as it was one of a most innocent description, he should propose a clause lo exempt flowers, fruits, herbs, confectionary, soda water, and ginger beer from the operation of the measure.
 Mr. Robert Steuart  was ready to admit the advantage of keeping up a connexion between the Church and State, but he differed as to the way in which that connexion ought to be maintained. He did not think the Dissenters of England and Scotland, or the Roman Catholics of Ireland, ought to be called upon to maintain an Established Church. He rejoiced to hear from the right hon. Gentleman (Sir W.
 1262
 Mr. T. Duncombe  presumed, then, that they were only suggesting heads for some amended Bill to the hon. Member. He would suggest one himself—namely, that shell-fish sellers should be excluded from the operation of the measure.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  hoped, that coffee-houses would not be closed on Sunday by the act of that House, as there were a very numerous class of young men, attorneys' clerks, and so forth, who were unable to obtain their dinners at any other places.
 Mr. Cobbett  wished to know whether, in the exceptions which the hon. Gentleman said it was his intention in Committee to insert in the Bill, he meant to include persons who sold cakes and fruit by the road-side? There were thousands of industrious persons who obtained their living in that manner; and he begged to know whether they were to be protected.
 Mr. Ewart  also opposed the Bill; which, by its operation in Liverpool alone, would prevent the transmission of newspapers to the whole of North and South America by vessels that sailed on a Sunday. He entreated the hon. and learned Gentleman to withdraw the measure, and extricate himself from the legislative morass in which he was now plunged.
 Mr. Gillon  rose to present Petitions from thirty-five different bodies in Scotland, against any grant of money out of the public funds for the purpose of extending the endowments of the Church of Scotland. These petitions had, almost all emanated from public meetings; they had been subscribed by above thirteen thousand five hundred individuals, all males, and above twelve years of age. In many instances, none had been allowed to sign who were not known to be above the age of sixteen.—The most ample discussion of the question had been courted, and the greatest pains taken to explain the true meaning of the petitions. In these respects they formed a striking contrast to the secret and hole-and-corner manner in which the petitions had been got up. These had not, in scarcely any instance, emanated from public meetings. The promoters of them were afraid to face the public. The petitions were carried round by the established clergymen and elders, who used every means of entreaty, or otherwise, to act upon weak minds. The signatures of females were received, who were peculiarly liable to be influenced in this way; and many were induced to sign under erroneous impressions, who, when the matter was fairly explained to them, endeavoured to get their names erased; and when this was not permitted, as was generally the case, they adhibited their names to the petitions against endowments, being the only means left in their power of undoing, in part at least, the evil they considered they had done. In proportion as he had
 1256 1257 1258 1259 l. 1260
 Sir Harry Verner  expressed his hope that the hon. and learned Gentleman would not give up the Bill. In his opinion it was a most sensible one, and would produce the beneficial result of rendering certain laws which are now practically inoperative effective.
 Sir A. Agnew  said, that as regarded the sale of newspapers, he begged to remind the Committee that the newsvenders had petitioned the House to put down the sale of newspapers on Sundays.
 Sir Andrew Agnew  could see no other object in the proposition for referring the Bill to a Select Committee than the allowing the Gentlemen who might compose that Committee an opportunity of indulging in scoffs and taunts. He for one could not regard the provisions of the Bill as of too stringent a nature: on the contrary, he feared, if it were allowed to pass in its present shape, it would fail of producing the desired effect.
 The Attorney-General  entreated the Committee to recollect that after what had already taken place the present discussion was a mere waste of time. He hoped they would allow the Bill to go through the Committee  pro forma,
 The Attorney-General  expressed his entire concurrence in the view which the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) had taken on the subject, which he conceived to be one wholly unfit for legislation.
 Sir Robert Peel  wished to know what was meant by the words "in an open shop?" Did it mean selling at a stall, or not? It was material to be very definite upon this point; because the people would regard this Bill as the latest legislative declaration on the subject; and if selling at a stall was not to be included under the terms "open shop," then instead of putting an end to trading on the Sabbath-day, the effect of the Bill would be to make that trading be carried on more publicly than ever, inasmuch as a stall was more open than a shop. The hon. Member excluded the sale of animals on the Sabbath; but if the words "open shop" did not mean a stall, there would be an inconsistency in the Bill, for animals were always sold openly, and not in shops. If, therefore, it were legal to sell at a stall, it would also be legal to sell cattle on the Sabbath-day.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, I confess that I always listen to discussions on this subject with great concern. There is no man in the House who attaches greater importance than I do to the proper keeping of the Sabbath-day. I think no one has a right to shock the public feeling by desecrating the Sabbath-day; but at the same time, I entertain very serious doubts as to whether we shall promote that object by legislation, and whether it will not be better to trust to the influence of manners and the increase of morality, for the purpose of checking, by public opinion, the attempt at profanation of the Sabbath, than to have recourse to new laws which I fear in themselves would be difficult of execution; and which, as they might be perverted to purposes of annoyance to individuals, would tend to bring the law itself into disrespect. I confess, judging from my own experience, I should say that you might safely trust to the influence of manners. I should say, that comparing, even within my own short experience, the observance of the Sabbath with what I have witnessed, and certainly with what I have read, making this comparison I should say, that without the interference of any new law the Sabbath-day is now much better observed than was the case formerly. If that effect has taken place nothing would be more easy than to show that you owe that consequence, that good effect of the influence of manners, to the influence of public opinion and not to legislation. Because I will undertake to prove, to the satisfaction of any man, that the enactments now on the Statute-book, are not, and have not been, observed. Of this I am perfectly satisfied, that you have only one of two alternatives—either to leave the law in its present state, and not to touch it, or, if you do touch it, to simplify and consolidate it, and to let the public know what the law really is with respect to the desecration of the Sabbath. Now, the hon. Gentleman the Member for Shaftesbury is about to take a third course, which I think very unnecessary. The law of Charles 2nd, is now in operation; it is on the Statute-book, but practically it is not observed; but the hon. Gentleman is about to pass a Bill which assumes the existence and operative effect of that law.
 1275 Poulter: s. 1276 Poulter 1277
 Sir William Rae  said, it was clear, from many of the petitions upon this subject, that there existed great misapprehensions as to the nature and the objects of the proposed grant. He always understood the object was to provide accommodation for those classes who were not able themselves to pay the expense of seats in the churches. The accommodation at present was utterly inadequate to the wants of the country. The establishment of the Church of Scotland took place at a time when the population was not one-tenth of what t was at present. Parishes had become more populous, large towns had grown up, in which the population was vastly increased. In Glasgow and Edinburgh the accommodation in the Churches was totally inadequate. At present in the Dissenting places of worship the price of seats was high, this being necessary to provide an adequate stipend for the Clergyman. The poor had not the means of paying for these seats. The object proposed, therefore, was, that Parliament, by some grant, should come in aid of private benevolence, for the purpose of affording to the poor the means of spiritual instruction. That truly excellent man, Dr. Chalmers, and others who contributed money for this purpose out of their own pockets, required only the assistance of Parliament, so that they should not bear the whole expense. Let those who opposed this grant look at the increase of crime in Scotland. It was lamentable to be obliged to make the observation, but depravity was fearfully on the advance there, and the consequences must become truly alarming if adequate means of religious instruction were not provided in due time for the people. The Representatives of Scotland did not oppose considerable grants, proposed for other Ecclesiastical purposes; but they were immediately opposed, though the grant for which they applied was comparatively small. This matter had produced a very
 1261
 An hon. Member  said that he had seen Mr. Greene in the House at four o'clock.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that he was wholly out of recollection of any precedent to this very extraordinary circumstance.
 The Speaker , after a pause of a few minutes, agreed that it was a most extraordinary case. He certainly had a clear impression that the hon. Member had answered to his name at four o'clock; but as the case stood, he thought the best course would be to postpone the swearing in of the Members until due inquiry had been
 1337
 The Speaker  said, that such was his own apprehension, and he believed he shared it in common with several other Members.
 The Speaker  said, that there had been a great mistake; for when the names of Members were called over, he had understood the hon. Member to answer, and he had been so assured by other Members. That, however, not having been the case, and the
ballot having been informal according to the terms of the Act, the House had no alternative but to adjourn. [The Speaker read the Act of 9 Geo. 4, which made it imperative on the House to complete the ballot before proceeding to any other business, and then adjourned the House.]
 Mr. Hardy  said, that he knew the hon. Member perfectly well, and had reason to believe him to be at this moment in Lancashire. At least he had this morning had a letter from him, dated thence a few days back.
 Mr. Gisborne  was about to address the House, when the proceeding was interrupted by the appearance of Mr. Greene at the Bar.
 Mr. Greene  said, that he had been informed that during his absence (not having been at the House before during the day) he
 1338
 Mr. Pryme  said, that the merits of the Question resolved themselves into a single point. It was not so much whether the clergy of a peculiar religion should be maintained by all classes, but whether a fund destined for the benefit of the community at large should have a portion of it appropriated to the benefit of a particular part of that community. Corporate funds, he maintained, were held in trust for the benefit of the whole community. He stated his belief that the churches of Liverpool were very inadequately endowed, and he should like to see endowments made for them, but he must maintain that the Corporation Funds, to which the Dissenters contributed, should not be appropriated to such purposes. He would therefore, vote for the Amendment.
 Lord Stanley  could not but think, notwithstanding the impassioned address which had been delivered by the hon. and learned Member for Tipperary, that the House would fall into the very error against which he had cautioned them, that of coming to a precipitate and unadvisable conclusion, if they departed from the ordinary course of proceeding, and determined to reject this Bill upon the second reading. He could not but think that the adoption of such a course would be far more precipitate than if they allowed the assertions on one and the other side to be thoroughly sifted and canvassed by the tribunal to which it was proposed to refer the consideration of the Bill. He much regretted that the hon. and learned Member should have thought it necessary to mix up with the immediate Question before them topics of a general nature, certainly only calculated for a discussion upon Corporate Reform, and for those important and extensive measures of which he understood, and which he sincerely hoped, would speedily be brought under the notice of the House by his Majesty's Ministers. The hon. and learned Gentleman, in the course of his address, had affirmed that a vast proportion of the people of Liverpool was opposed to this Bill. Now, that was a point, he submitted, which would more properly and more fairly come under the consideration of the Committee. So far as the House was yet acquainted with the fact, it derived its knowledge from the assertion of the hon.
 21 22
 Lord Stanley : Will the hon. Gentleman allow me to interrupt him, and assure him that if I have used one word personally painful to his feelings, such was not my intention?
 Mr. Mark Phillips  protested against Church matters being surreptitiously introduced into a Police Bill, and the entailment of this charge upon the people of Liverpool.
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to protest against the Bill, on behalf of a number of the contributors to the fund which the Bill proposed to dispose of. The city which he (Mr. O'Connell) represented was a great contributor to the Corporation funds
 26 27
 Mr. Goulburn  observed that the hon. and learned Gentleman complained grievously of those who alluded to the motives of the persons who conducted public measures, or who took part in them in Parliament; and yet the whole of the hon. and learned Gentleman's speech on that occasion had been an insinuation of mo-
 28 29
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to explain. The right hon. Gentleman had checked him, and had reproached him with having accused others of having made insinuations that they would not clothe in the words of a direct charge; and the right hon. Gentleman had also accused him of making or insinuating charges against the promoters of the Bill out of the House. He had insinuated no charge. The difference between an insinuation and a direct charge was precisely the course that he took. He made no insinuation against the parties; he charged them directly. As to what he had said about the preamble, if anybody would look to the Bill itself, they would at once perceive what he had alluded to. What he (Mr. O'Connell) had said was, that, up to page 12 of the Bill there was no mention of the clergy; nor was there. In the 13th page, in the middle of a section, entitled "Limitations of Actions," for the first time, by a rhetorical flourish, was a preamble relative to the clergy introduced. That was, certainly, a queer way of introducing a preamble.
 Mr. Goulburn : What the hon. and learned Gentleman said was, that there was an intention to take persons by surprise in introducing a question for the payment of the clergy in a Bill which professed to be for the establishment of a day police. In reply to that, he (Mr. Goulburn) stated, and he repeated, that the title of the Bill distinctly denoted the whole object of the Bill; and that although the preamble to the first part related only to the police, yet that there was a second preamble setting forth the
 30
 Mr. Mark Phillips  would offer no objection to the second reading under such circumstances.
 Dr. Lushington  said, that in the course of his professional life he had had occasion to turn his attention to the subject under discussion, and he felt convinced that the preparation of any legislative measure with respect to it must be attended with the greatest possible difficulties, provided due regard was paid to the rights of the Dissenters, without any infringement being at the same time made on the rights of the Established Church. In his humble judgment, the questions of Dissenters' Marriages, of Church-rates, of Tithes, and of Registration, were all intimately connected with the interests both of the Established Church and of the Dissenters, and he felt perfectly satisfied, that in proportion as more comprehensive views were taken on
 37
 Dr. Lushington  said, that it was not his intention to discuss the principle of the Bill, but merely to express his opinion with respect to the impossibility of legislating on the subject at present, in accordance with a comprehensive and statesmanlike view of the whole Question. With respect to the Bill before the House, he would not, after what had passed, say one word; but considering the advanced period of the Session, he could not help thinking, that though legislation on the subject was necessary, delay was infinitely better than inconsiderate and crude legislation. The
 38
 Mr. Ruthven  said, the Government had shown a disposition to do good, and he hoped they would have nerve enough to proceed as they had commenced.
 Lord Darlington : I wish to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether Lord Palmerston is to be created a Member of the British Peerage, and thereby obtain a seat in the other House of Parliament, or whether any vacancy is likely to occur in this House to enable him to procure a seat here? The public know nothing upon the subject except that Lord Palmerston has been gazetted as Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, and it is highly important that the fact should be understood. If the noble Lord answer in the negative, I wish to ask him whether it be intended that the noble Lord should continue to hold the situation as Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. I believe it is perfectly unusual and almost unprecedented for an individual not in Parliament to hold a Cabinet situation.
 Lord Darlington : Perhaps the noble Lord will allow me to ask him another question. The noble Lord talks of novelty: is it novel, or is it not, for an individual holding the office of Foreign Secretary to have no seat either in this or the other House of Parliament.
 Lord Francis Egerton  said, he should not have risen but that he wished to call the attention of the hon. Member for Cambridge (Mr. Pryme) to one fact. The hon. Member had objected to the Bill, because it contemplated a diversion of Corporate Property to purposes other than that for which it was intrusted to the Corporate body. He begged to inform the hon. Member, that very considerable property was vested in the Corporation of Liverpool, for the express purpose of enabling them to provide adequately for the rectors and. clergy of that extensive
 19 Ewart
 Lord John Russell  gave the right hon. Baronet full credit for his exertions on this important subject, but must say, at the same time, he thought the Bill now before the House did not appear likely to answer the object of affording practical relief to the Dissenters unless considerable alterations were introduced into it. He believed that such was also the impression of his hon. and learned friend the Member for the Tower Hamlets, who had expressed his doubts on the introduction of the Bill, but who was not now present to state his opinion. Since the measure was under discussion on a former occasion, he had not had sufficient time to consider the details of the subject, or to make up his mind as to what alterations he should propose himself, or support if proposed by other Members. Perhaps it would be better that the second reading of the Bill should be postponed under such circumstances; at all events, whether it were or not, before the proceeding could reach another stage, he would communicate to the right hon. Baronet whatever alterations he might consider necessary, and then the right hon. Baronet might either go on with the Bill or leave the question in the hands of the Government.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the only communication he recollected to have received on this subject, when the right hon. Baronet was at the head of the Administration, proceeded from a large body of individuals who did not conceive it expedient to oppose the second reading of the Bill, but were content to have there opinions expressed in Committee.
 Lord John Russell  was sorry he could not concur in the motion of the hon. Member; but as he considered that it would have the effect of placing an undue limit to the discretion of Ministers, he felt himself obliged to resist it.
 Lord John Russell : I can only say, that if the state of things of which the noble Lord complains had continued for any length of time, these might be very proper questions; but as the absence of Lord Palmerston is merely a temporary one, I must decline giving any other answer than that I have already returned to the noble Lord.
 Lord John Russell  stated, in reply, that the Government entertained no intention whatever of sending Colonel Fox as a Commissioner to Canada.
 Lord John Russell : The noble Lord has asked me several questions, all of them of rather an extraordinary and novel nature. One is, whether it is the intention of the Crown to confer the dignity of the peerage upon a certain individual; the next, as I should understand it, is whether it is the intention of any Member of this House to
 39 cheers and laughter
 Colonel Sibthorp  wished to ask the noble Lord whether there was any truth in the report that Colonel Fox, who had so obligingly vacated his Seat for Stroud in favour of the noble Lord, was to be transported or sent out as a Commissioner to Canada?
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, the hon. Member for Middlesex might send forth his venom if he pleased; this he knew, that it would not affect him. The hon. Member first said he had nothing to charge against the noble Lord at the head of the Army, and then, with a peculiar inconsistency, he alleged against the noble Lord that his conduct was marked by partiality. He believed the noble Lord to be incapable of the conduct imputed to him, but when the hon. Member for Middlesex made that charge, he was cheered by the other side of the House. [ Cheers. "similis simili gaudet,"
 Colonel Sibthorp  would assure the House, as some allusion had been made to the Corporation with which he was connected, that when its affairs were brought forward the corporate authorities would be found to have acted with the greatest purity.
 Mr. Feargus O'Connor  must declare, in reply to what had just been stated, that it would give his constituents great regret to see the Gentlemen who now occupied the Ministerial benches displaced by a Tory Government. He would not, in their support, go quite the length of voting that black was white, though perhaps he would do so in the sense that was meant by the hon. Member for Middlesex when he made that declaration; but he certainly would consent to receive even less from the present than he would be contented with from a Tory Government, because he knew the difficulties they had to encounter, and that they would, at least, put an end to that domestic cruelty which had for years been practised in Ireland.
 The Speaker  informed the hon. Member that there was no question before the House, and it was irregular for him to proceed, unless he meant to conclude with a motion.
 The Speaker  was understood to say that the hon. Member in explaining that he had not made assertions on his own authority, the hon. and learned Member was so far in order. Beyond that he had not gone, nor would he be in order if he did.
 Mr. Kennedy  was desirous of stating, that he had understood that the right hon. Baronet would not bring forward the Bill again, but that another would be substituted by the present Government. Under these circumstances he had withdrawn his notice; and as he had assigned this as his reason for doing so to several persons who had applied to him on the subject, he hoped the right hon. Baronet would not persevere. Many petitions had been prepared against the measure, but they had not been forwarded, on the understanding and for the reasons he had already stated.
 Mr. Kennedy  certainly had neither the
 34
 Mr. Kennedy  said, that the Bill in its present state was exceedingly obnoxious to the feelings of the Dissenters, inasmuch as it tended to deprive the Ceremony of Marriage of its religious character. He thought that the one proposed by the noble Lord (Russell) last year was not open to the same objection.
 Mr. Kennedy  observed, that he had given notice of his intention to propose an Amendment on the Bill when the right hon. Baronet sat on the Ministerial side of the House; but it was not now necessary to press it. He approved of the Bill on this subject which was proposed last year by the noble Secretary for the Home Department, the main parts of which Bill had been embodied in the present measure, and under such circumstances he thought he should be able to approve of the course which he doubted not the noble Lord would take, and was content to leave the matter in his hands.
 Dr. Bowring  recommended a more systematic arrangement of the Estimates, so that hon. Members might make themselves masters of the subject, and follow the discussions with greater facility.
 Dr. Bowring  begged, as a Dissenter, to protest against the opprobrium which the hon. Baronet opposite sought to throw upon those who differed from his own religious creed. He would not intrude upon the House further than to protest against that House being set up as a religious tribunal.
 Mr. Wilks  begged to express his hope that, notwithstanding the eloquent appeal of the noble Lord, the House would not allow this Bill to proceed further, opposed as it was to the feelings of the majority of the most wealthy and respectable inhabitants of the town of Liverpool. The House ought to recollect that the majority of the people of that town were dissenters from the Established Church, and, therefore, they ought not to be astonished that the hon. Member for Tipperary was opposed to the Bill, when they knew that 2–8ths of the population were of the same persuasion as the hon. and learned Member. It was also to be recollected that the Dissenters of Liverpool considered themselves as placed in a state of peculiar oppression, and complained greatly of the violation of their rights. The Corporation of Liverpool had a council, consisting of
 25
 Mr. Wilks  had no objection to the second reading, but thought that the Bill would require considerable alteration in Committee.
 Mr. Wilks  said, that having understood that the House was not to enter into a discussion of the principle of the Bill, he felt greatly surprised at some of the observations of the hon. and learned Gentleman, which almost challenged reply. Still, after the understanding that had been come to, he (Mr. Wilks) should feel it to be very improper to protract the present conversation; but he must take the liberty of saying, that if the hon. and learned Gentleman stood in the same situation as the Dissenters—if he were labouring under the grievances which they had endured for so many years—he would, in all probability, be very reluctant to allow of any delay in the adoption of measures for their removal.
 Mr. Hume  said, he thought the charge for the staffenormous. and wished to know whether it was the intention of the Government to attend to the recommendation of the select Committee on the subject? The Report of that Committee was dated in 1831, and
 40
 Mr. Hume  had just one remark to make. It was gratifying to him to think that there was one dose the hon. and gallant Member and his Friends had swallowed, which was the "Russell purge," and it had been he was happy to say, very effectual.
 Mr. Hume  said, that it had been objected to his statement as to the extent to which economy was practicable, that the cost of the Army in Ireland was only 840,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  was of opinion that the right
 36
 Mr. Pease  expressed a hope that time would be given to allow the public at large to become perfectly acquainted with the nature and effect of the alterations which it was the intention of the present Government to make in the Bill.
 Captain Parry  recommended, that officers on half-pay should be allowed the option of the first vacancies that occurred, which would enable them to obtain full pay. l.
 Mr. Potter  was of opinion, that considering the advanced state of the Session, it would be well to allow the present Bill to drop altogether. No Bill would, in his opinion, be satisfactory to the Dissenters on the subject of marriage unless it were connected with a general registration.
 Mr. Potter  had always thought that the preamble of a Bill stood upon the first page; but in the present instance it seemed it would be necessary to wade to the 13th page before more than one-half of the purposes of the Bill could be discovered.
 Mr. Sheil : I bow willingly to your decision, Sir, however I may think I suffer by it.
 Mr. Sheil : Oh! the words of the noble Lord are like the spear of Achilles; they wound with one end and heal with the other.—[" Spoke.
 Mr. Sheil : I rise, Sir, to explain one circumstance relating to the Bill, and not, of course, to answer the very unprovoked—[ Cheers interrupted the hon. and learned Member, and the conclusion of the sentence was lost. Cries of "Spoke, spoke," and "Order!"
 Mr. Sheil  thought that a decisive answer might be given to the supporters of the Bill, from the mere fact stated by the noble Lord, that the Corporation of Liverpool held funds in trust for the payment of the clergy. If so, why were the inhabitants generally to be called upon to contribute, and moreover to pay two-thirds of the expense of maintaining the proposed police? All that the rectors could claim by law was 400 l. l. 20
 Mr. Thornely  said, that he had been requested to support the petition which his hon. Friend, the Member for Liverpool, had just laid upon the Table of the House. Locally connected with Liverpool, he was able to state that the majority of the inhabitants were strongly opposed to the Bill now under consideration, and it was regarded by them as an evasion in anticipation of the measure of Muncipal Reform which it was generally understood
 18 l. l.
 Mr. Cobbett  rose to complain of the irregularity and uncertainty with which public business was generally conducted.
 Mr. Cobbett —Then, Sir, I will make a Motion. The Ministers of the Crown, he must observe, were expressly bound to give the House every explanation they could reasonably require; and so to conduct the public business as to enable them to understand its progress, and to transact it most conveniently. With the present
 32
 Mr. Cobbett : The hon. Member argued that because Ministers had the people with them, they would carry all before them: but they had not the people with them; and he trusted they never would have, till they did something to relieve the people. The people expected that some of the taxes which oppressed them should be taken off; they would not allow themselves to be led away by mere professions. For his part, he saw little difference between the Whigs and the Tories. The people would never be satisfied till they ceased to play into one another's hands—till they dissolved partnership.
 Mr. Cobbett  said, that the nation had just right to complain of the enormous number of officers in the army. Taking both full and half-pay, there was an officer to seven men and three-quarters. The people looked to a Reformed Parliament for a reduction of the expenditure, but notwithstanding it had existed two years, nothing had yet been done; and if they did not do so, the people would cease to look to the Parliament for what they chiefly cared for, retrenchment, and as a consequence the removal of the burdens that oppressed them.
 Mr. Ewart  opposed the Motion. Though this was called a Police Bill, the real object of it was to provide payment for the clergy of the parish of Liverpool out of the funds of the Corporation. It bore the name of a Police Bill, it was true, but it contained a clause which enabled the Corporation to make provision for the clergy of Liverpool out of their funds. Had this clause not been observed in proper time the Bill might have passed through the House unnoticed, with this most extraordinary and most objectionable clause, and Liverpool would, if the Bill passed in its present shape, be completely shut out from the benefit of those legislative reforms of the public institutions of the country which were now in progress. Within the last ten years no less a sum than 120,000 l. 15
 Mr. Finn : Is the hon. Baronet in order?
 Mr. Finn  said, Ministers ought not to allow their political powers to be in abeyance; such had not been the course of the Duke of Wellington. They had the Church, the Army, and the Corporations, arrayed against them; but having the people with them, they would nevertheless maintain a fair position, if they gave power only to those by whom they were supported.
 Sir Charles Burrell  (as we understood) congratulated the Government on the now avowed accession of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. The hon. and learned Member had said,—"The measures of Corporate Reform which we contemplate."
 Sir Charles Dalbiac  also vindicated the
 42 l.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, the hon. Member for Middlesex had not stated a single instance of the partiality he had charged. Those who supported the hon. Member with their cheers, should support him with some statements of fact.
 Sir Robert Inglis  thought he should consult the wishes of the House by not urging any objection to the principle of the Bill in its present stage. At the same time he reserved to himself the right of opposing it at a future period.
 Sir Robert Inglis : The hon. Member does not know me if he thinks he can so easily put me down. The hon. Member for Tipperary is the first individual in my memory, and I hope he will be the last, who, after such an apology as that made by my noble Friend, with his accustomed feelings of high honour, should again and again have stated what he has. I say this not in particular justification of my noble Friend, but as I would have said had any other hon. Member been placed in similar circumstances. An hon. Member makes a remark, which appearing to give pain to another he immediately retracts; and yet, notwithstanding this apology, the other hon. Member persists in declaring that he has been attacked, and that to such an attack he will reply. To a scene of this description, so, discreditable to the dignity and order of our proceedings, is it not essential that some stop should be put? I will now, Sir, advert to the subject immediately before us. I was certainly not the person who diverted the attention of the House from that subject, and when the hon. Member for Tipperary rose to instruct us I did not know, this being a Committee of Supply day, but that he would take some opportunity of adverting to that notice which he lately gave. I cannot now but feel that he might with some consistency have left the matter to hon. Members more directly connected with such a local question—particularly a question involving the very point in respect to which the hon. and learned Gentleman was necessarily ignorant.
 Sir Robert Inglis  rose amidst some confusion—I never heard any hon. Member after receiving an apology like that of my noble Friend, make use of such an adjective as the hon. and learned Member has used. I never knew any hon. Member persevere—[Mr. Sheil again rose, but cries of "Order," compelled the hon. and learned Member to resume his seat.]
 Sir Robert Inglis : I rise to order. I put it to the Chair, whether the hon. and learned Member is not at this moment making a distinct speech? I believe that this is against the rules of the House.
 Sir Robert Peel  moved the second reading of the Bill.
 Sir Robert Peel  begged to state to the hon. and learned Member, that during his absence from the House it had been agreed that the second reading of the Bill should be taken merely as a matter of course, with the understanding that the Government should have the future management of it. In allowing the Bill to pass through its present stage, the hon. and learned Member would not be precluded from opposing it, if he so thought fit, on a future occasion. Many Gentlemen had left the House, under the impression that no discussion would take place on the principle of the measure.
 Sir Robert Peel  would be extremely sorry that any unnecessary delay should occur in the progress of the measure at this period of the Session, and repeated that, with a view to remove all difficulty, he was willing to move the second reading,  pro formâ,
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that he was certainly prepared to propose the second reading of the Bill and support it in its present shape; but the noble Lord's present communication was sufficient for him as to what ought to be his future course, and, therefore, with the noble Lord's per-
 35
 Sir Robert Peel  was quite certain the hon. Gentleman had acted under the impression he had just stated. He only wished to add, on his own behalf, that when the Bill stood for a second reading before, he distinctly expressed his wish that the Government would undertake it. He had, therefore, postponed it—not to a distant period, but to a day by which he thought it likely the noble Lord would have taken his seat in the House. He had acted thus from a conviction of the expediency of passing the measure with as little delay as possible.
 Sir Robert Peel : The hon. Gentleman had, perhaps, better means of ascertaining what the intentions of his Majesty's Government were than he possessed. He certainly did not understand that they intended to abandon the measure altogether, and he was sure that he had never authorised the hon. Gentleman, by any act of his, to suppose that he meant to give it up. At the same time, if the Ministers thought it expedient, to drop this Bill, and to introduce another entirely differing in its character, he had no wish to press the second reading. If, on the other hand, they, approving of the principles, intended to modify it by alteration in detail, he was ready to give it up to them.
 Sir Robt. Peel  begged to ask what course was to be pursued with respect to business, as there were several Orders of the Day equally important, the first of which was the Dissenters' Marriages Bill, which stood for a second reading? He had brought in that measure as a Member of his Majesty's Government in concert with the rest of his colleagues. He then thought, and he conceived the House could entertain no doubt, that it was a measure the conduct of which ought to be undertaken by the Executive. At the same time, as he had reason to believe, from some discussion which took place upon the introduction of that Bill, that there would be no very marked difference of opinion as to the principle on the second reading, he thought it would be inexpedient to drop the order altogether, and at once abandon the charge of it. If, however, his Majesty's Government contemplated any alteration in that Bill which would materially vary its character, he thought it quite clear that the second reading ought to be proposed by them, and that they should fix a convenient day for that purpose. He wished, therefore, to ascertain the noble Lord's intentions with reference to that measure. Of course the
 33 pro formâ.
 Sir Rufane Donkin  felt bound, as a soldier, to bear his testimony to the honest and impartial manner in which Lord Hill had distributed the patronage of the army. He believed that never, for one moment, since that noble Lord had taken office had he given way to private feeling or political bias in his distribution of the army patronage at his disposal. Although opposed in politics to Lord Hill, he felt it his duty to bear his testimony to the impartiality always manifested by the noble Lord.
 Lord Viscount Howick  stated, that there was every disposition on the part of Government to attend to the recommendations of the Committee alluded to by the hon. Member for Middlesex, and especially to that part of it respecting the staff at head quarters, and the consolidation of the different military departments. At that moment, however, they laboured under difficulties, owing to the short time they had taken office; he need hardly say they had not had time to come to a determination on the points alluded to by the
 41
 Lord Howick  remarked, that it was his intention to propose, in accordance with the wish expressed by the Committee who sat on this subject, that general officers not having a regiment, should be allowed the pay of 400 l.
 Lord Howick  observed, there was an old saying, that none were so deaf as those who would not hear: and applying this to the hon. Member for Oldham, he must declare that he despaired of producing any effect on that hon. Gentleman. As regarded, the mere reduction of the burdens of the people, suppose the Whigs had done nothing else during the four years they were in power, had they been quite as unsuccessful as the hon. Member would represent? Had the hon. Member for Oldham forgotten, that during the period be had referred to, the taxes reduced amounted to nearly 5,000,000 l.? 44 l. l., l.
 Lord Sandon  begged permission to explain that the Bill stated in the title that it was to provide for the improvement of the Town Police, and for the payment of an annual sum for the parochial clergy of Liverpool.
 Lord Sandon  hoped he should be able to satisfy the House that the Bill did not bear the character given to it by his hon. Colleague. It was not a job, nor a Corporation Bill. He regretted the necessity of being obliged to go into some detail, for the purpose of showing to the House what were the real character and the objects of this Bill. In the course of last year it was proposed by Lord Grey's Government to do away with Church-rates. The clergy of Liverpool would thus be deprived of one of the sources from which they derived their very moderate income and support. Application was made to the inhabitants of Liverpool to ascertain how it would be most advisable to act under those circumstances, and how it would be most advisable to provide for the maintenance of the clergy, which hitherto was derived partly from the Church-rates. The result was, that a deputation waited upon his noble Friend, the then Chancellor of the Exchequer (Lord Althorp), who, when the matter was explained to him, said, that, in the event of the Bill for the abolition of Church-rates passing, it would be only fair that provision should be made from some other
 16 l., l., 17
 Lord Sandon  moved the Second Reading of the Liverpool Police Bill.
 Sir W. Foulkes  presented Petitions from Lynn, Wells, and other places, complaining of the conduct observed towards Mr. Child, of Bungay, by the Ecclesiastical Court, on the subject of demand for Church-rates. He considered the case to be a very hard one—though he believed that Mr. Child had voluntarily submitted.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the right hon. Baronet certainly has made a very able speech, but he has not made quite a candid one. Let us consider as shortly as possible what is the argument of the right hon. Gentleman. He has argued altogether as if (and I put it to the House whether the two cases are at all similar)—as if the present Government stood now in the position in which it would have stood, if that change of Government, which took place in November last, had not occurred, and if that change had not been succeeded by a general election. There is not one single word contained in the amended Address to the Throne which I do not now re-avow, as strongly as I voted for it before. If, indeed, the events which took place in November, and which were in February brought under the consideration of the House, had not produced delay, if they had not impeded the course of Reform, then I admit that that Address would have been false, and that the House ought not to have passed it. But if, on the other hand, the occurrences of November have had the effect of impeding the course of safe and useful Reform, then the position in which the House is now placed is not a position which the majority who voted for that Address is at liberty to impute to us. It is to those causes that we have a right to refer that position. The right hon. Baronet well knows that the interval between the month of November and the meeting of Parliament in the month of February, is of all intervals, that which enables the Government to meet Parliament with the best effect. Of that advantage Lord Melbourne's Government
 72 73 74 75 76
 Dr. Lushington  said he had never known an instance, since the passing of the 53rd George 3rd, where parties had had recourse to the Ecclesiastical Court for the recovery of Church-rates, where the sum was under 10 l., 80 81 82
 Mr. Pryme  ridiculed the idea of the Churchwardens having, on the plea of fairness and humanity, pat the unfortunate Mr. Child into prison rather than bring him before a magistrate, who happened to be a clergyman. By such an excuse they added hypocrisy to cruelty. Their whole conduct well deserved the epithets applied to it in the petition. They really appeared to have been actuated by the rancour of religious hostility.
 The Marquess of Chandos  rose to bring forward his Motion. As that was the third time he had brought the subject of the Distress
 86 87 s. s. s. s. s. s. s. 88 Mark-lane Express 89 l. 90 s. l. l. l. l. 91 "No, no," 92
 The Earl of Darlington  rose with great pleasure to second the Motion of the noble Marquess, who, upon this occasion, as on every other since his entry into public life, had showed himself well deserving of the proud title which he generally received—that of "the farmer's friend." The picture which had been drawn of the distress endured by the agricultural population was not, unfortunately, an exaggerated one; it was impossible to give it that character, even if it were desired; and, as the proposition of the noble Marquess was as moderate a one as could be conceived under the circumstances—in fact, if he had any fault to find with it, it was that of being too moderate—he earnestly and sincerely trusted that the Government would see the absolute necessity of acceding to it. In their consideration of the subject, they ought not to forget that in two successive speeches from the Throne, agricultural distress had formed
 93 l. 94
 Lord George Lennox  said, that, after the unfounded attacks which had been made upon his noble relative (the Duke of Richmond) by the hon. Member for Oldham, he felt himself called on to address a few words of explanation to the House, which, he trusted, would be heard for that reason. That hon. Member had thought proper a few days back to bring forward in that House charges against his noble brother; but he (Lord George Lennox) had treated them with the contempt due to all misrepresentations and mis-statements of the kind. No sooner, howevever, did the report of the hon. Member's speech reach the county of Sussex than a meeting of the Magistrates
 106
 Mr. O'Connell  said [ amidst cries of "Question" 126
 The Marquess of Chandos,  in reply, said that he had not hoped to please both parties by his Motion. It was his duty to bring forward the Question that night, and he would take another opportunity of having it discussed again. Every Motion on agricultural distress was met by arguing that it was impolitic to grant it, or that the remedy required would be inefficacious. When he had brought forward a Motion for the Repeal of the Malt-tax, he was met exactly in the same way. When he brought forward this Question last year it was lost by a majority of only 16; and he was then told by Ministers, and by some of those who voted with him, that it would not be efficacious at all. When the repeal of the Window-tax was mooted, they were told that a partial repeal of it would do no good—that the whole of it must be taken off. The taking off the House-tax was, however, conceded by the Government, and he knew for what reason it was conceded. If the farmers followed the bad example of those who clamoured for the Repeal of the House-duty they would also be relieved. He hoped, nay he was sure, that the farmers of England would not follow that bad example. They would not employ means of intimidation or resistance, but they would come year after year and lay their grievances before that House; and he was sure that in the end that House would do them justice. Whatever might be the vote of that night, he felt that in bringing forward the present Motion he was but dis-
 127
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rejected altogether, the prophecies of the hon. Member for Oldham, because, although in some respects that hon. Member might have proved himself to be a true prophet, in others he had demonstrated himself to be one of the most delusive seers that ever ventured to utter a prediction. He could not forget a threat which was held out, some years ago, by a certain great public writer—that, upon the coming to pass of a certain contingency, which he specifically described, the Ministers of the day were to be sacrificed upon the gridiron—that elegant culinary utensil with which the hon. Member appeared to be so pleased, that in the failure of his own prediction, he selected it for the instrument of his own voluntary martyrdom. Know-
 119 120 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 121 s. l. s. s. d. l. s. d. l. l. s. s. d. l. s. s. d. l. s. s. d. s. d. l. l. s. s. d. l. s. d. s. l. l. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. l., l. l. 122 l., l. l., l. l. l. 123 124
 Mr. Law  said, that after the discussion which had taken place, it was not his intention to trouble the House with many observations, though he had originally intended to call their attention to some of the real facts of the case, which had been communicated to him. However, the observations made by the hon. and learned Attorney-General induced him to state one important fact, which entirely negatived the imputation cast on the Churchwardens, that they had from first to last been actuated by a desire to oppress Child. From the communication made to him, of the truth of which he had no doubt, it appeared that the Churchwardens informed Child, even when the costs of the suit had been incurred, but before any
 79 s. d.
 Mr. Cressett Pelham  said, that as the matter contained in the petition before the House might possibly come before another court, he suggested whether it were fair to anticipate the merits of the case, by prolonging a discussion like that which had been going on? The object of the petition, he thought, was one of a vague character, without specifying any particular mode of redress. It was apparently designed to produce a general sort of discussion, and certainly the discussion had taken that turn. He agreed with the noble Secretary for the Home Department, that questions of such general importance should not be taken up hastily by the House, and would express his concern that any body of men, holding authority from the Crown, should show a disposition to sanction or adopt the line of proceeding that was taken up on the opposite side of the House.
 Lord Arthur Lennox  addressed the House. He begged the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel who had risen to speak) pardon for standing even for a moment between him and the House; but a necessity had been imposed upon him
 109
 Lord Henniker  said, that he rose for the purpose, not of making any observations on Church-rates, but in order to vindicate the character of two individuals, namely, the Churchwardens of Bungay, who had been unfairly dealt with, respectting this affair. When he made his statement he was sure that it would appear to the House that the Churchwardens of Bungay were guilty of no harshness towards Mr. Child, and all that they had done was justified by the letter of the law. In saying this, he meant no offence towards Mr. Child, or towards any Gentleman,
 52 53
 Lord John Russell  was willing to believe from all he had heard, and from the account which had been transmitted
 61 62 l. l. l. l 63 64
 Lord John Russell  said, in rising to make some observations on the Motion of the noble Lord opposite, he must acquit him of having brought it forward from any party or factious motive; on the contrary, the noble Lord, in bringing forward his motions relating to the distress of the agriculturists, whoever were the Ministers in power, desired no doubt to draw from them and from the House some opinion with respect to that distress, and with respect to the burdens under which the agricultural interest laboured. Whatever
 95 Chandos 96 s. s. s. l. 97 l. l. . 98 l. 99 l. l. 100 l. l. 101
 Lord John Russell  was understood to to say, that the Government wished to do what the hon. Member had adverted to, but he could not then give a more specific promise.
 Mr. Charles Buller  never recollected any case of injustice or oppression brought before the House, in which some Gentleman did not come forward and assert that the persons against whom that complaint was brought were most humane characters, and were actuated by the purest motives. The Churchwardens, now complained of, had adopted a most extraordinary mode of showing their humanity towards Mr. Child. From the individual question respecting Mr. Child, the attention of the House had been called to the general Question of the injustice of continuing the present law respecting Church-rates. His attention, however, had also been directed to another great Question, namely—the constitution of the tribunal by which Mr. Child was subjected to these iniquitous proceedings It appeared that Mr. Child had been illegally brought before this Ecclesiastical Court, for the paltry sum of 17 s. d. l. 85
 Colonel Sibthorp  trusted the noble Lord, the Member for the county of Buckingham, who had again attempted to break the ice which had so long been frozen over the agricultural interests of the country, would at least take the sense of the House upon the present occasion. The Motion of the noble Lord had only been met by promises of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that if he waited till "to-morrow and to-morrow," important measures would be brought forward. Notwithstanding these promises only two measures had been announced, or were known to the House as intended to be dealt with during the present Session; he alluded to the Irish Tithe Bill and the measure of Municipal Reform. He agreed in the opinion expressed by the hon. Member for Oldham, that unless something was speedily done for the agriculturist, a convulsion must be the result, and he was satisfied that the relief most worthy of consideration, as best calculated to save the agricultural interest, was the introduction of a silver standard of currency.
 Mr. Baines  said, that the hon. Member for Yarmouth had not correctly stated the views of the Dissenters, when he informed the House that they were disposed to acquiesce in an arrangement for raising a Church-rate by a general tax, instead of a specific rate. No such concession had been made; and he protested against the Dissenters being committed to that admission. They wished, indeed, the edifices of the Church to be upheld; but they thought that when the revenues of the Church came to be investigated, it would be found that the sinecures of the Church were sufficient to pay for the keeping in repair the churches, or if they should prove deficient, that there were other sinecures and pensions that might be resorted to for that purpose without imposing fresh burdens upon the people. As to the proposed delay, the Dissenters wished to have their grievances redressed as soon as was compatible with their satisfactory adjustment; but they were more anxious that the legislation upon them should be sound and permanently satisfactory, than that the measures haying that object should be
 84
 Mr. Fitzroy Kelly  said, that if the petitioners had contented themselves with stating facts in their petitions, or if they had confined themselves to animadversions on the state of the law to which their petitions referred, he should not have felt it necessary to trouble the House with any observations on this occasion. He concurred with all the hon. Gentlemen who had stated, that the Church-rates formed a subject which required the early and deep consideration of Parliament. That was not, however, the question, at that moment. The Question was, whether this Petition, stating such facts as it did, and coming to such a conclusion as it did, ought to be laid on the Table of the House. He hoped that the House would not allow petitions to be made a channel for base, cowardly, and malignant calumnies against private individuals. To prove that he was not using language unsuitable to the occasion, he would call the attention of the House to the few but strong words with which the petition concluded:—"Your petitioners, therefore, pray your hon. House to pass some measure for the immediate abolition of the barbarous and anomalous powers of the Ecclesiastical Courts." [ Cheers. 57 58 l., 59 60 s. d.,
 Mr. Winthrop Praed  took it for granted that the Representatives of the Dissenters in that House, who expressed such satisfaction at the declaration of the noble Lord (Lord John Russell), were also ready to adopt the noble Lord's principle, that the nation at large ought to contribute to the repair of the fabric of the Established Church. With respect to the case mentioned in the petition, the hon. and learned Member had attempted to cast an imputation on the motives of the two Churchwardens. This he surely would not have done if he had heard the plain and simple statement of the hon. Member for Ipswich. The hon. and learned Member (Dr. Lushington) said that the offer made by the Churchwardens to pay the cost of the legal
 83
 Mr. Benett  wished only to correct the errors of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets with respect to the relative prices of wheat and barley. He believed that no person in England was ignorant of the causes of the difference except the hon. Member himself. The difference in the price of wheat or barley arose entirely from the badness of the crop of barley; and if the hon. Member would only look back to the market prices, he would find that barley, two years ago, had been as low as it had been for twenty years. Another cause of the high price of the barley was the Repeal of the Beer-tax, and in the next year, the price of barley would again bear its price proportionate to that of wheat. For his part, he thought it of very little importance whether the House adopted the original Motion or the Amendment. The only difference between them was, that the original Motion alluded to relief to be derived from a reduction of general taxation, and the Amendment related to local taxation. If the Amendment precluded any man from hereafter voting for any repeal of general taxation, he would not vote for it; but it would not have such an effect. He agreed with Lord Western, who had laid it down that the causes of agricultural distress, and the sources of relief must be sought for in the Currency Question. He would not at present enter into any question relative to a silver standard or a gold standard, but convinced he was, that relief to the agriculturists in one way or the other, was to be sought for only in an alteration of the currency laws. He thought that the Poor-laws ought to be under the control of the Government, with a view to their being ultimately thrown upon the general resources of the country. Formerly, when land was the sole support of the labourers, land bore the sole weight of the Poor-laws, but now that there existed such mercantile and manufacturing property, this ought to bear its share of Poor-rates.
 Dr. Bowring  said, that the Dissenters knew who were their real friends; and expressed his conviction that they would not press their claims, when their so doing might retard the progress of the important measures that had been adverted to.
 Mr. Hardy  was not acquainted with either of the two Gentlemen who had adopted the proceedings against Mr. Child, but he thought that a most unfair attack had been made on them. They had given notice of all the proceedings in his case, and had manifested every anxiety to settle the matter amicably. There appeared to him to be nothing either of injustice or oppression in their conduct.
 Mr. Wilks  considered the two measures which Government had announced their intention of bringing forward most pressing and important; the one would give peace to Ireland; the other was a measure of reform without which the Reform Bill itself would be paralyzed. He could have wished that the Dissenters' claims had not been postponed, he still thought Ministers might take those claims into consideration during the present Session, and hoped that they would re-consider their determination on the subject. If, however, they should upon reflection remain of opinion that it was wise to postpone that question, he had no doubt that the Dissenters would wait patiently. For his own part, deeply impressed with the importance of the measures to be brought forward by the Ministers, he should be ready to give them his most cordial support.
 Mr. Hume  was happy to hear from the noble Lord a full admission of the respectability of Mr. Child, an admission, however, which was totally unnecessary for those who knew as he did, that Mr. Child had resided in Bungay for the last thirty years, and that he kept forty individuals in constant employment. It was important, however, that the House should look, not so much to the character of the individual as to the operation of the law of which that individual complained. In the petition of Mr. Child, which had just been placed on the Table of the House, he prayed that the House would alter the law respecting Church-rates. Now, let the House see what the circumstances were which had induced him to come to that conclusion. Mr. Child is a Dissenter. He was rated to the Church-rates, and having conscientious scruples, which induced him to think that he ought not to contribute to the support of a Church in whose doctrines he did not and could not believe, he had refused to pay his quota of those rates. Such was the course regularly pursued by every Quaker in the country. What, then, was the course adopted towards Mr. Child? When Mr. Child refused to pay the 17 s. d. 54 l., l. l., l. 55 Ipswich Journal Ipswich Journal, 56
 Mr. Hume  presented similar petitions from Needham, Diss, and Bungay; they also praying for an alteration of the laws on this subject, and under which Mr. Child had been proceeded against. The last petition was from Bungay, the place of Mr. Child's residence. In that place there were 910 householders. He believed that there were not above 30 householders who had not signed this petition.
 Mr. Pease  said, that the Dissenters would confide in their old friends, and wait until they obtained a well-digested measure of relief from them. The Society of Friends did feel it to be a hardship that they were called on to contribute towards the repair of the edifices appertaining to the Established Church, believing, as they did, that the Church was itself in possession of ample funds for that purpose.
 Mr. Potter  also bore testimony to the willingness of the Dissenters to postpone urging their claims until they could be more advantageously conceded.
 Mr. Cobbett  observed, that it was the duty of the Judges of the Ecclesiastical Court to have been cognizant of the statute to which the hon. and learned Attorney-General had referred.
 Mr. Cobbett  rose for the purpose of making some observations in consequence of what had fallen from the noble Lord (Russell) who had just addressed the
 102 Cries of "Read, Read." loud laughter 103 Renewed cries of "Read, Read." s. Cries of "Read, Read." l l. l. l. l. 104 l. s. l. 105
 Mr. Cobbett  had derived his information from Mr. James Gray, of Chichester, who had said that he was able and willing to substantiate every word of it against the Duke of Richmond.
 Mr. Cobbett  could assure the noble Lord and the House, that he did not know that any one in the House could possibly be offended by his observations. But he was perfectly ready to re-state and prove every word which he had uttered on the subject.
 Mr. Ewart  was convinced of the necessity of Municipal Reform, and thought nothing was more pressing. Since the passing of the Test and Corporation Acts not one Dissenter had been admitted into the Corporation of Liverpool. The measure announced by Government would at once unlock the barred-up Corporations, and liberate them from the thraldom in which they had been so long held.
 Sir Charles Burrell  was understood to
 125
 Mr. Mark Philips  was desirous to see the Church of England and the Dissenters united in the bond of peace and concord. He feared, however, that the adoption of such proceedings as had given rise to the present discussion would only foment and perpetuate differences which they all deplored. He hoped that hon. Gentlemen opposite, who expressed so much anxiety for the settlement of this Question, would, when it again came forward, meet it in that fair and candid spirit which was so well calculated to promote the end they all professed to desire.
 The Attorney-General  thought that a
 78 l. l. de contumace capiendo
 Sir Robert Peel  could not regret that he had given the noble Lord an opportunity of venting his feelings, which were very natural, and reflected honour upon him. He was perfectly convinced that the hon. Member for Oldham must have laboured under some misapprehension of what he had heard with respect to the noble Duke alluded to, and the motives by which he was actuated; for he (Sir R. Peel) felt himself bound to say that the extensive experience which he had had of the noble Duke in his Parliamentary career had completely satisfied him that his character was of that nature that the
 110 111 112 l. 113 l. 114 115 l. l. l. l. l. 116 l. l. 117 118
 Sir Robert Peel  had nothing to find fault with in respect to the principle which the noble Lord had announced on the subject of Church-rates, since the noble Lord had plainly said, that it was an essential condition of the existence of an Established Church that the state should provide for the maintenance and repair of the fabric of the Church. [Mr.  Hume: John Russell: 65 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. * Hansard, (third series) vol. xxii. pp. 10—14 and 10—18. 66 l. l. 67 68 l. l. l., l. 69 70 71
 Lord W. Lennox and Mr. Clay  rose together. The former was loudly called on by the House, even after the Speaker had decided in favour of the latter.
 Mr. Clay  said, that the hon. Member for Oldham had treated with the utmost disdain all those modes of relieving agricultural distress which had been suggested in the course of the Debate; and ascribed its cause to the passing, and its only remedy to the repeal, of the Bill of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tam-
 107 108
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  begged leave to doubt whether the hon. Member who spoke last expressed the sentiments of the Dissenters. At all events he believed that the Dissenting portion of his constituents would be any thing but satisfied with the conduct of Ministers. The people of England would contrast the course which Ministers were about to pursue with that which the right hon. Baronet was pursuing with so much advantage to the country and his own character, when he was compelled to relinquish office upon pretences which he need not refer to.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  said, that he wished to put a question to the noble Lord the Secretary for the Home Department, which he considered of paramount importance at the present moment, and which the public looked to with great interest. He would not allude to the various reports in circulation beyond [" Question
 Mr. Curteis  said, that if this clause should be carried, the House would, in common consistency and justice, be bound to pass a Bill prohibiting Sunday travelling on all turnpike-roads as well as railways. The hon. Gentleman had acknowledged, that some had described this proposition as preposterous and extraordinary. He felt no hesitation in saying, that it appeared to him to be one of the most preposterous clauses that had ever been brought forward. If the House was determined to restrict the enjoyments of the humbler classes of society on Sundays, let the thing be done openly, and not by a side wind, similar to this clause. He would give his most strenuous opposition to such a side wind and partial species of legislation. As to the country gentlemen, they, generally speaking, did not travel much on Sundays, and he would say, that in the rural districts, the Sunday was at present much better observed by the industrious classes than it had been formerly. Had they a right to deprive those classes of free agency on the Sunday, and thereby to debar them from almost every species of innocent enjoyment? He called on the country gentlemen to resist this attempt, and he trusted the House would render it abortive.
 Mr. Miles  rose to move the insertion of the clause of which he had given notice, to prevent travelling on this railway on the Sabbath. The petition which he had already presented from Bath on this subject, had been called in question by some hon. Members. In reply to their insinuations, he would say, that it was signed by the Bishop of the diocese, by twenty-one resident clergymen, and by several most respectable inhabitants of Bath. That petition, too, on a former occasion, had been described by hon. Members as preposterous and extraordinary, as if an application to Parliament to sanction the divine law by human enactment, was in any respect deserving of such epithets. He would submit to the consideration of the House, that whatever might be the opinion entertained within those walls on this subject, there was a growing desire out of doors, which was becoming daily more prevalent, to prevent the violations of the Sabbath, by stringent legislative enactments. In justice to the promoters of this Bill, he must say, that they expressed their willingness to insert a clause to prevent travelling on the railway from 11 o'clock till 2 on Sundays, during divine service; but he begged to add, that such a proposition did not meet the views of the gentleman who had proposed this clause, nor did it meet his own view. This was a company investing their capital in an undertaking for the purposes of profit, and when it was recollected that at that moment a Bill was in its passage through the House to prevent Sunday trading, he did not see how they could allow this Bill to pass in its present shape, without raising a cry throughout the country, that they were acting unjustly towards all other classes, whose trading on Sundays would be prohibited. The question, therefore, admitted of no compromise. The object of the clause was to enable the persons employed on the railway to pass their Sundays in a proper manner. There
 151 l.
 The Attorney General  said, that if this clause merely went to limit railway travelling on Sundays during the hours of Divine Service, or for a certain period in the day, he might be disposed to assent to it; but as the prohibition extended to the twenty-four hours, he would oppose it; amongst other evil effects, it might prevent people from going to church by railways, where churches or chapels adjoined them.
 Mr. O'Connell  hoped, that the House would not listen to this Motion. If the House chose to legislate upon this subject, let it legislate openly and directly upon it; but let it not fritter away a great principle by legislating on it by a side wind. Why had not the hon. Member introduced a Sabbath Bill prohibiting all travelling on Sunday? In such a Bill he might have included all travelling upon this road, and indeed all walks whatever on a Sunday. The Western Railroad, if this clause were inserted in the Bill, would be stamped with a Sabbath mark, and would be  tabooed 161
 Sir Phillip Durham  said, that travelling on Sundays was completely prohibited in Scotland, either by mail-coach, stage-coach, omnibus, or any other species of public vehicle. The poor had, therefore, no means of recreation on a Sunday in Scotland. The consequence was, that on that day many of them went unshaven and unshorn, and did not dress either themselves or their children. They lounged in idleness at home during church time, and as soon as church was over went off to the ale-house, to find amusement there, which was denied them elsewhere. He had represented the folly of this system over and over again to the Magistrates of Scotland, in hopes of getting it altered. In his own neighbourhood he had done everything in his power to render the poor free as air, and he had found his reward in their contented looks and smiling faces. The fact was, that the excess of severity led the people to desecrate, and not to keep holy, the Sabbath day. He should oppose the clause.
 Mr. Goulburn  thought that the petition in this case ought to be presented on the first day of the House sitting after the adjournment. Any other interpretation would be different from that of the original resolution.
 The Solicitor General  thought the construction of the resolution was "fourteen days after the return had been certified to the House."
 Mr. O'Connell : Yes, that is it. When that day Mr. O'Loughlen was called on the ballot the officer looked to the date of the return. The money, in this case, was alleged to be paid on the 13th of April; on the 12th of May the House resumed its sittings, so that twenty-eight days had elapsed. But this day was the fourteenth day from the time the House resumed [ "No!"
 Mr. William Duncombe  suggested the propriety of withdrawing this clause. The legislature could not establish one principle for travelling on Sundays on railroads, and another principle for travelling on ordinary roads. If it adopted the principle of prohibiting all travelling upon Sundays on all kinds of roads, it would subject the people to intolerable inconvenience.
 Lord John Russell  said, that as the petition was presented in consequence of one of the Resolutions he had the honour of moving, and as there might arise some doubt as to the construction of that Resolution, he thought it would be best to receive the petition  pro formâ
 Lord John Russell : The Order of the House referred to, related to the extending of time. Did the right hon. Baronet think the Question ought to be decided now?
 Lord John Russell  said, that it was competent in the House to discharge the petition if any irregularity should be found in it.
 Lord John Russell  referred to the resolutions of the House, by which it appeared that the petition might be presented any time within twenty-eight days after the corrupt payment had been made; and if the House were not sitting in that interval the Petition was to be presented within fourteen days after the House first met. The question was, then, whether the House was sitting at the expiration of the twenty-eight days; and, secondly, whether it had been now sitting longer than fourteen days?
 Lord John Russell  said, that he considered the petition ought to have been presented on the first day the House resumed its sittings. It appeared to him now, from the arguments he had just heard that the petition ought not to be received.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that he had formerly stated to the bon. Member (Mr. Robinson) the course which he (Mr. P. Thomson) considered should be taken, viz. to ascertain what was the opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown with reference to the question; upon which afterwards the Government might proceed in negotiation. He (Mr. P. Thomson) had felt it his duty strictly to comply with the pledge he had then given to the hon. Member; and within a few days after, he addressed a letter to the Foreign-office, requesting them to take the opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown upon the subject. He had reason to believe, that that request was complied with; that the opinion was demanded; and, when it had been received, the noble Lord then at the head of the Government would have been prepared to make all endeavours towards negotiation with the French upon the subject. That opinion had not been received by the noble Lord, the present Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, prior to his leaving office; and during the Administration that succeeded them, no further steps were taken in the question. As far then
 167 168
 Mr. Robinson , in pursuance to notice, brought forward his Motion relative to the right of British subjects to a Concurrent Fishery on that part of the coast of Newfoundland, commonly called the French shore. If the subject were only of a local nature he would not presume to demand much of the attention of the House; but it involved more than local importance or the interests of a single colony. The question arose out of the construction put upon a treaty entered into between England and France in the year 1814, and though so long a period as twenty-one years had elapsed the Government had given no answer to the persons engaged in this fishery as to how the treaty was to be construed. This was very strange, and he would ask the Government how long after twenty-one years were British subjects to wait before they were told whether they had a right, concurrent with the French, of fishing on their own coast. In 1830, he moved for a Select Committee to consider the subject. The answer of the Government was, that a Select Committee was an inconvenient course of proceeding. In 1831, he again brought the matter before the House, when he was induced to withdraw it, in consequence of being told that the subject was under the consideration of the Government. Last Session, in June, he moved an humble Address to his Majesty, praying that he would, order the Law Officers of the Crown to give their opinion on the treaty in question, and then he withdrew his Motion, because he was told by Government that they were in treaty with France on the subject, and that it would be useless to press the matter until the pending negotiations were concluded.
 165 166
 Mr. Robinson  observed, that whatever difference of opinions might exist amongst hon. Members on the subject of legislating with regard to the observance of the Sabbath, there could, he apprehended, be no difference as to the impropriety of legislating in this manner on such a matter. It scarcely required a remark to exemplify the absurdity of inserting a clause like this in a Railway Bill, altogether prohibiting Sunday travelling on that particular railway, whilst several Railway Bills had been already passed with no such prohibition contained in them. Let the House come to a decision on the general principle involved in this matter, and do not let it legislate with regard to individual cases.
 Mr. Handley  said, that the petition was placed in his hands but ten minutes before he entered the House. In that time he had examined it as attentively as he could, and he thought it ought to be received. However, he would not for one moment oppose his opinion to that of the majority of the House.
 Mr. Handley : The petition alleged that the last payment of money was on the 13th of April; but from the 12th of April to the 12th of May the House had not been sitting.
 Mr. Handley  considered the Petitioner had a right to be allowed fourteen days
 164
 Mr. Handley  rose to present a Petition from Thomas White, of Hull, praying the House to declare the election for that borough, of David Carruthers, Esq., to be null and void. The hon. Member said, he presented the petition in pursuance of part of the Resolution of that House, of the date of the 24th of February, by which it was required that all persons complaining of returns to Parliament on the ground of bribery and corruption, should present the petition within twenty-eight days after bribery or corruption was alleged to have taken place, and within fourteen days after the first sitting of Parliament.
 The Speaker  said, there were two facts to be considered by the House as to the reception of the petition. The first was, the time of the payment of money for corrupt purposes, and the second was, whether since the time of payment more or less than twenty-eight days had elapsed before the petition was presented. The House could decide as to the time of payment of the money.
 Mr. Buckingham  was as anxious as any Member of the House could be, to protect the rights and interests, and promote the enjoyment of the poor: and it was precisely for that reason that he should give his support to the clause for preventing the use of the machinery and engines of the great Western Railway on the Sunday. As, however, his motives might be misconstrued, if he merely asserted his opinion without giving the reasons on which it was founded, he should feel it his duty to explain, very shortly, the ground on which he should give his vote. It had been reiterated, on almost every debate on this subject, that it was absurd to attempt to make persons religious by Act of Parliament; and from the cheers with which this assertion had been constantly received, an impression seemed to have got abroad, that this enforcement of the cessation of traffic and labour on the Sunday, originated entirely in a desire to make persons religious against their will. For himself, however, he protested against his being included in the number of such persons, if indeed there were any; and he was not afraid to declare, that, in his view of the case, no religious motives whatever entered at all. It seemed to him, indeed, very questionable, whether any particular observance of the Sabbath could be justly enforced on Scriptural authority. The setting apart of a Sabbath or seventh day of rest, was clearly one of the earliest institutions of society, and was long anterior to the existence of the
 156 157 158 159 160
 Mr. Roebuck : I shall oppose this clause, because it is intended by it to interfere with the enjoyments of the working and poorer classes, whilst it leaves untouched the recreations of the higher classes. Why should a clause be introduced which is to be made to apply only to poor people? I went a short distance out of town a Sunday or two since, and I will narrate to the House what I saw. On that morning I went first into Piccadilly. At twelve o'clock, the first person I met on horseback was the Duke of Wellington. I went into Hyde Park, and there, while the Church service was going on, I found some poor men watering the ride for the comfort of the refined classes in carriages in the afternoon. A little further on I came to Knightsbridge, and there I found the soldiers exercising, and their officers in arms. I pursued my journey, and crossed Hammersmith Bridge, and there I met the Lord Chief Justice on horseback, taking a ride with his servant in the country. At three o'clock I arrived
 155
 Mr. Potter  (interrupting the hon. Member)—I move, Sir, that the House be counted.
 Mr. Potter  regretted very much the absence of the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) when this clause was under discussion. That right hon. Gentleman had come very opportunely to their assistance the other evening, when they were endeavouring to prevent a restriction of the Sunday, and he was, therefore, very sorry the right hon. Baronet was not present on this occasion. The hon. Gentleman had said, that should he succeed in carrying this clause, he would then introduce a general measure (and so far he certainly would be quite consistent) to prevent Sunday travelling, not only on railroads, but on all roads whatever. [Mr.  Miles: 152 l. 153
 Sir Andrew Agnew  supported the clause in a speech of some length, of which not one word was audible in the gallery.
 Sir Robert Inglis  observed, that they had been told by the hon. Member who had just sat down, that they should not legislate in this manner, but that they should bring forward some general measure on the subject. Now, should the House reject this clause, and should a general measure be introduced hereafter, would it not be said that the House had in this specific instance decided against the principle of such a measure? He thought, therefore, that the clause should be adopted. If in this case they limited Sunday travelling in accordance with what they believed to be the law of God, the persons promoting this Bill could not complain, as they had applied for it, subject to such restrictions as the House thought fit to impose, and when the general measures should be brought forward, it would be fortified by the adoption of the principle in this particular instance.
 Sir Robert Peel  thought, that the purport of the Resolution was, that the petition should be presented within a certain time after the day corruption or bribery was alleged to take place. If the petition were not presented to the House within
 163
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that if there was any doubt as to the time the petition ought to be received, or as to the construction of the Resolution, the propriety of receiving the petition was in his mind very questionable.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  supported the clause, for he thought that a special exemption ought to be made in all Bills as to Sunday travelling on railroads.
 Alderman Thompson  would remind the hon. Member what the state of the law
 195 s.
 Mr. Shaw  had several petitions to present in reference to the Established Church, and the danger to which the Protestant religion was at the present crisis exposed in Ireland. He held in his hand one signed by upwards of 1,500 Protestants residing in the county of Louth; others from the Bishop and Clergy of the dioceses of Leighlin and Ferns, and of Killaloe and Kilfenora; all earnestly protesting against the principle of appropriating Church-property to secular purposes, and praying protection for the Protestant religion and Church in Ireland as established by law and guaranteed by the act of union. The petitioners expressed their alarm and dismay at the prospect of the principle of proportion which it is threatened to apply to Protestantism in Ireland, as a mockery of all legislative engagements, and a flagrant violation of the most solemn national contract. The Protestants in Ireland justly regarded it as a premium on their extirpation, and the petitioners respectfully but firmly expressed their opinion, that if that principle were carried into effect, the chief bond of union between Great Britain and Ireland would be dissolved, and that the overthrow of all English interests in Ireland, and the final separation of the countries, would follow as an inevitable consequence. He did not desire to provoke a general discussion of the question on the presentation of these petitions, but hoped the House would allow him to correct some misstatements on mere questions of fact which had been made on the subject to which they related, and he would do so by reading the answers in the words of those from whom he received them, at the same time bearing testimony to the high
 174
 Mr. Shaw  was surprised at the interruption: strictly speaking it certainly was irregular for any persons out of that House to quote the words of an hon. Member used in debate, for the purpose of reasoning upon them, as indeed reporting them at all was in strictness out of order; but he had never before heard an objection made in that House to a correction of the misstatement of a fact. If he was driven to it on a point of mere technicality, he might give the facts as a speech of his own, but he much preferred giving them on the authority and in the words of those who could speak to them of their own personal knowledge. Well, then, with the leave of the House, he would read an extract from a letter written to him by the resident rector of Tullamore, in reference to the statement of the noble Lord (Lord John Russell), as to that parish; it was as follows;—"His Lordship is reported to have made use of as a fact upon which he built his theory of the state of the Irish branch of the Established Church, the parish of Tullamore, which he sets down as by composition at 470 l. 175 176
 Lord Francis Egerton  presented petitions from Salford and Manchester, signed by 10,500 persons, expressing their alarm at the present situation of the Irish Church, their regret that the measures proposed by the late Government had not been carried into effect, and praying the House for protection to the Church Establishment. The petition was signed by many respectable Dissenters, and also a Roman Catholic gentleman named Travers.
 Mr. Mark Philips  felt it necessary to offer a few observations upon the petition which had just been presented by the noble Lord, more especially as the House would be shortly called upon to carry into effect the resolution that had been agreed to relative to the appropriation of the surplus revenue of the Irish Church. He knew not what exertions might have been made to obtain signatures to the petition in question, nor did he mean to call in question its authenticity in any way; but this he would say, that the signatures bore a very small proportion to the population of the town from which it came. He was glad to find there was so small a number representing such sentiments as were contained in that petition. He would beg leave to refer the House to the opinion expressed by his right hon. Colleague who had since accepted the office of President of the Board of Trade. At the late election, the right hon. Gentleman had expressed his opinions pretty freely, and he would say that the result of that election spoke the deliberate conviction on the minds of the population of Manchester upon this subject. Allusions had been made to one gentleman who had signed it, who was a Roman Catholic and a large landed proprietor. He did not mean to cast any imputation upon that gentleman, or any other; but he believed he was the owner of considerable Church-property—and if he was the owner of Church-property, and he considered it in danger, he should certainly feel it his duty to enter his protest against any measure which he thought calculated to produce that effect. The circumstances attending the getting up of the petition were such as that it could not be considered a petition from the town, and he (Mr. M. Philips) would enter his protest against its being received
 177
 Mr. Finn,  as a Roman Catholic, would enter his protest against the assertion that the Roman Catholic Members of that House had violated their oaths. The petitioners called upon the House to frame an oath to prevent the Roman Catholics from interfering with Church-property; but if they (the Catholics) were not to be believed upon their oaths, what was the use of making forms to bind them. Were there ever such stupid, such sottish propositions submitted to the House? What had kept the Roman Catholics out of that House for 140 years but their sacred reverence for the obligation of an oath? This was a fact which all the illiberality, cant, hypocrisy, and spirit of plunder which had prevailed in Ireland had never been able to refute or disprove. He challenged hon. Members to produce the same regard for the obligations of an oath among the various sects of England. He would state one fact to the House bearing upon the subject—a Protestant Gentleman, the Member for Ennis, when he had come to that Table to be sworn, had revolted from the oaths about to be administered to him as a Protestant Member, and took the oaths as a Roman Catholic. He, (Mr. Finn) would not for the first position which fortune, station, or empire could confer on him, take the oaths which the Protestant Members of that House were called on to take, and in which their Roman Catholic brethren were stigmatized as idolators. He believed that those persons who assailed his religion were a disgrace to the name of Protestant or any other religion. They reviled the religion of their neighbours, forgetting that pure principle of charity without which there was not, nor could be, any religion. He spurned the base attempt of the petitioners to obtain the opinion of that House upon the Roman Catholic oath, or to induce it to frame another. The question had been a fruitful one for every bigotted individual to pour out his rancour against the Roman Catholics—it had formed a subject for every vile renegade print, for every apostate and unblushing print, which, the more broadly and universally the seal of public reprobation was stamped upon it, the more liberally did it pour out its rancour and malignity against his religion. There was a deep feeling of conviction amongst the peasantry of Ireland, that the injus-
 178 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Shaw  had said that a great many had joined in that vote for the purpose of overturning the Church. Many had said, at least some hon. Members had said, had professed, that their object was to overturn the Church. Many, no doubt, differed from this, But he considered that the great majority had joined in that resolution in order to destroy the connexion between the Church and state in both countries.
 Mr. Brotherton : A petition had been presented from the place which he represented, and he begged leave to offer a few words. It was not his intention to disprove the respectability of the parishioners, but he must say that the number of signatures to the petition out of so large a constituency was not a Very great portion. It appeared to him that this was not a question of religious principle; but simply a question bf money. If the established religion were the Christian religion.—a religion founded on justice, seeking to procure peace and good will, it was a bad compliment, at the best, to that religion, to say that it would be overturned unless it were supported by the money of the country. He must say, that in voting for the resolution proposed by the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, he (Mr. Brotherton) did not vote with a view to put down the established Church, or to do anything having a tendency to weaken the religious feelings of the country. His object was to promote peace and tranquillity in Ireland, to do justice to those who had too often suffered great injustice, and to promote the interests of this country, by endeavouring to promote good order in that part of the empire, and also to prove his respect for religion by standing up on the behalf of justice and humanity, rather than by exciting improper and acrimonious feelings amongst the people of Ireland.
 Mr. Ruthven  was surprised at the pertinacity with which these petitions were presented. He had some hope that the noble Lord (Egerton) who had presented one of these petitions would have had the delicacy of not pressing it upon the House, as a more unjust, audacious, and slanderous petition he had never read. They were told that some respectable names were attached to the petition, and that one of
 180
 Lord F. Egerton : The name of the gentleman to whom the hon. Member alluded was not attached to the petition in question.
 Mr. Ruthven : If there were any Other Gentleman of respectability amongst these petitioners, he would say that he had disgraced himself both as a citizen and a private gentleman. Such a petition ought not to be allowed to lie on the Table. The language of petitions to that House ought to be clear, distinct, and not liable to be misunderstood. They ought to know what the petitions applied for. It was not to be tolerated that Members of that House should be spoken of in such language as that used in the present petition. What did the petitioners mean by Irish agitators? That House should not allow petitions containing such vague charges to be presented in this manner. It was a practice that was too often resorted to, and was only calculated to create ill-feeling among the Members Of that House, and the people at large. He would state with respect to the assertions of the right hon. Member, that they were not applicable to him, and they were not founded in truth. The petition which had been read conveyed enough to show how suspiciously all such documents ought to be considered. It contained language which ought not to be countenanced by the House, and he trusted, therefore, it would not be received.
 Colonel Evans  said, that he was not one of those who conceived it his duty to look very scrupulously at the language contained in petitions—he was anxious to throw the door as widely open as possible to the right of petitioning. He was not, therefore, for rejecting these petitions, though certainly they were couched in very unjustifiable language—he alluded especially to the petitions from South Lancashire and Durham. If he was not mistaken, one of those petitions charged a portion of that House with perjury, and the other charged the majority of the House with high treason. Did it mean to charge His Majesty's Ministers, and those who supported the course they had adopted, with that offence? If it did not
 181
 Mr. Wilson Patten  was understood to say, that no charge of high treason was preferred in the petition referred to, that from South Lancashire. The petition was most respectably signed by members of the established Church and by Dissenters, and it had been got tip without any undue exertions.
 Lord Francis Egerton  said, that he had always looked upon it as a principle adopted by that House to allow the greatest possible latitude to petitioners. There must be very strong reasons to justify the rejection of a petition, such as that it contained calumny or slander against an individual, or that it was contrary to the forms of the House. He would beg to say, that if any portion of the petition contained a charge of high treason against anybody, much more against that House, he would not present it. But he thought a forced construction had been put upon the charge contained in it. It was, certainly, couched in strong language. He understood it to designate the measure as an act of treason against the King and Constitution of the country. But that did not mean treason in the legal sense of the word—namely, levying war against the King; it was merely a figurative expression. It was not language, perhaps, that he would have used had he drawn up this petition, but he felt it did not exceed the language used in other petitions to that House, and that he was bound in duty to his constituents to lay their sentiments before Parliament.
 Mr. Grote  would only make one observation on the subject. Much was frequently said by gentlemen opposite as to the ferocious language employed by Radicals and the working classes. That reproach was often cast at the supporters of the popular side. He would defy, however, any Member opposite to point out a petition coming from those parties which abounded in such calumnious assertions, and that imputed the very worst possible motives to others, as this petition from the Conservatives of South Lancashire did, and also the petition from Durham. It was true great latitude should be allowed in petitioning, but it was right that the same character should be applied to violent language, whether it came from the ultra-Pious or the ultra-Radical.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  would not have pre-
 182
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that, most assuredly, no one could describe the petition as not going far enough in its language. Indeed, the expressions made use of appeared to him to be outrageously violent, calumnious, unfounded in truth, and uncalled for. Yet, though possessing all these unprepossessing qualifications, he was, by no means, prepared to say that its language was altogether unparliamentary. Though many Members of that House were therein grossly attacked with calumnious insinuations, yet, as the petition did not exactly describe the persons whom it vilified as Members of Parliament, it was hardly competent in the House to object to it as a matter of form. It would be best to treat it with the compassion of contempt, and at once allow it to be received. It was at least worthy of notice as a rich specimen of the extent to which bad taste and lying might be carried; and Heaven forbid that the freemen of South Lancashire should be deprived of their right of
 183
 Mr. Trevor  begged to say, that he had only expressed himself as not participating in the charge of perjury which it had been alleged that the petition set forth, though for his own part he had been unable to discover any such charge.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that if certain Members of the House were not directly charged with perjury by the petitioners, there was, at any rate, set forth a very unequivocal sort of insinuation to that purpose; and he would put it to the hon. Gentleman's good taste and judgment whether this latter method of attacking those Members was not ten times more base and cowardly than a direct charge? There was a method of meeting a direct charge put in an honest and manly way, but there was none of answering a charge when made in the contemptible shape of an insinuation. If any hon. Members agreed with the petitioners in their sentiments on this subject, he wished they would get up and make a decided and positive charge, instead of leaving the matter to be brought forward in the shape of these contemptible and cowardly insinuations, fit only to form part of the ribaldry of certain newspapers. In reference to one subject alluded to by the petitioners, he would observe, that he should be most glad if some hon. Member would bring forward the subject of the Catholic Oath in the practical shape of moving that it be abolished. For his own part, though, of course, he had taken the oath, there was one part of it which he did not like—he referred to the words "Protestant Government." He could not understand what was meant by calling this Government a Protestant Government, when, in fact, there were only three offices to which Roman Catholics were not eligible. He had concluded, however, that it meant the "existing Government," and in this sense he had taken it; and he had more than once explained to the House that this was his construction of the words, and had called upon any hon. Member who could prove him to be wrong in it, to move his
 184 185 No, no! 186
 Lord Stormont  opposed the second reading of the Bill, on the ground, that it was intended to amalgamate the several distinct Boards of the parish into one Board, and thereby to saddle the exorbitant debts of some of the districts upon the rest. The parish was divided into nineteen districts, but so much opposition was anticipated from two of them, that the promoters of the Bill had thought proper to omit them. He concluded by moving, "That the Bill be read a second time this day six months."
 Mr. Tooke  having opposed the Bill during the last Session, he now saw no reason to alter his opinion. The public would gain nothing from the proposed change, for the power of the Committee would fall into the hands of the Vestry, very few of whom attended. He had presented several petitions from inhabitants, and more had been presented from bond-holders, who were of opinion, that their claims would be prejudiced, by having a fluctuating body like the Vestry substituted for the respectable trustees. He, therefore, with pleasure seconded the Motion of the noble Lord.
 Mr. Hume  would ask, whether it was fit that seventeen Boards should exist with 500 members, while the parish had a respectable Vestry of 100 individuals elected by open poll? It would give a greater security to the bond-holders than they had now. He trusted that the House would let the Bill pass the second reading, and in the Committee every disposition would be shown to afford the best security to every individual.
 Mr. Wilks  said, that, though at the risk of the censure of his hon. Friend, he was Prepared to give a vote against the Bill, as he had done Before, and he trusted that the House would, as they had done before, throw out the Bill. Parliament had no fight to abolish the security of any individual who had lent his money upon the full security of the rates, bridges, &c., which they now had.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  said, that by the Bill, the Vestry were enjoined to raise a particular rate for the payment of the interest and capital of the debt, so that the House would see at once, that the security was not in the least impaired. The last Bill was thrown out because it was opposed by the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel), who said, "except the Foundling Estates, and I will vote for the second reading," they had now excepted those estates, in justice, not to him only, but to the case itself, for they were situated in two different parishes.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, the case was not one of party politics at all, and he trusted that the day would never come when local Bills would be so decided. Though St. Pancras Was called a parish, it was not to be confounded with those small parishes common in other parts. It covered a very large extent of ground, and contained both town and country parts—then was it fair that those country parts should be under the same regulation as the town ones. He trusted that the Bill would be thrown out by as large a majority as had taken that course last year.
 Mr. Fox Maule  hoped the Bill would pass. He would vote for the second reading, on account of his abhorrence of any public business being done by self-elected bodies.
 Mr. Byng  would vote for the second reading, as he thought it would be much to the advantage of the parish, by abolishing a great number of useless Boards.
 Colonel Conolly  begged leave to direct the hon. and learned Gentleman's attention to the county of Kildare, with reference to this measure.
 Mr. Barron  rose to oppose it. He did so, first, because it gave an undue power to the Privy Council of Ireland. And, secondly, because the Bill did not represent the people of Ireland generally. He would let the House into the circumstances of the case. Some years ago the assizes had been removed to the city of Waterford, and the people of Dungarvon (the town which the right hon. Solicitor-General represented) had resolved to support no candidate who did not pledge himself to support the removal Bill. There had been meetings held, and petitions got up, it was true: but where were the meetings held? In the town of Dungarvon, and no person dated to oppose the measure there, for fear he should be beaten out of the town. But meetings were held in other parts of the county, and directly contrary petitions were adopted. He Would admit the town of Dungarvon was best situated of the two, in regard to the gentry of the county, the Members Of the Privy Council, and such persons: but this town, so much applauded for its "centrical situation," was actually situated at the corner of the county on the sea coast. He maintained, therefore, that though the Bill might be beneficial to the constituents of the right hon. Gentleman, it was not so to the great body of the people of Ireland; and he should therefore move as an amendment, "That this Bill be read a second time this day six months."
 Mr. Wyse  rose to second the amendment. Most of the towns of Ireland were situated at a considerable distance from the extreme parts of the county; take, for instance, the towns of Wexford, Cork, Limerick, and many others, and did the fight hon. Gentleman propose to remove the assizes in these cases in the same way as in that of Waterford? And then, where was local taxation to end? One tax after another was thrown upon the counties of Ireland; the county cess, for instance, produced nearly 900,000 l., 189
 Mr. J. Grattan  hoped the learned Solicitor-General would withdraw his Motion, till there was a general call upon him for it. It was mischievous, at such a period, to introduce such a Bill.
 Lord Morpeth  said, he could not see why a measure, which had proved advantageous for England, should not prove equally so for Ireland. He thought the question of removals could be discussed before as disinterested a tribunal in the Privy Council as before that House. It had been urged that the hon. and learned Solicitor General might have been biassed by the peculiar circumstances and interests of his constituents. He (Lord Morpeth)
 190
 Mr. Walker  thought they should assimilate, as far as possible, the law of England and Ireland. But as to the Privy Council of Ireland no body could deny that they were tinctured, deeply tinctured, with intolerance. Now if they were satisfied that the Liberal Government would continue always, he, for one, would not object to giving the Privy Council the power proposed to be given them. But they knew that Government could change, and it might change still; he hoped while they continued true to their principles they would not change: but still they might. Now the Bill gave a power to the Privy Council of Ireland, which was not given to that of England, and therefore he denied that it was assimilating the law of the two countries. It had been said, "there was the control of the Grand Juries." But the Grand Juries were exactly constituted as the Privy Council. He defied any man to point out one liberal man among them. And who appointed the Petty Juries? who the Orange Sheriffs? Now, if the hon. Gentleman wished to assimilate, why did he not assimilate the Grand Juries, and the Petty Juries, and the Privy Councils of the two countries? The Bill was introduced merely for the sake of the electors Of Dungarvon, and he hoped the hon. Gentleman would withdraw his Bill.
 The Attorney-General  said, the Bill was a copy of one which he had introduced for England, which had passed without opposition, and proved very beneficial. He hoped there would be no opposition, at least to the second reading.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  could not help thinking that his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor-General had been dealt with rather harshly. Any one who knew him would be convinced that his motives were pure and disinterested. There could be no doubt that the Bill would be advantageous, particularly in such cases as the county of Cork, where there were parts of the county 70 or 80 miles from the assize
 191
 Mr. Barron  was willing to allow that the matter was pressed on Mr. O'Loghlen by his constituents, and by reason of his connection with the town he could not avoid taking such a part in the question. However, if the House were willing that the Bill be read a second time, he was satisfied.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  was astonished at the nature of the opposition to the Bill, for there was no real foundation for such opposition. He heard two objections stated—one on the ground of Mr. O'Loghlen's connexion with the town, the other lay to the interference of the Privy Council in Ireland. Now he would distinctly aver that Mr. O'Loghlen did not deserve the unhandsome imputations cast upon the integrity of his motives. His character was far above them. The Bill was a very good one, and of great convenience to the inhabitants of the county. The assizes being held in certain county towns caused great inconvenience and loss to the people. Appeals from the Civil Bill Courts lay to the Judges of Assize. In these the poor were chiefly concerned, the sums under dispute varying from ten shillings to ten pounds. The expense to the poor, who in many cases had to go a distance of seventy Irish miles to the assizes, was attended with great hardship and expense. The attack in the Privy Council was equally unfair and untrue, for a more honourable body of men did not exist, either in Ireland or England. It consisted of men of all shades of politics and degrees of liberality, as it was called. Were the. Duke of Leinster and Lord Cloncurry men opposed to the popular interest? Was the Earl of Kenmare hostile to the interests of the Catholic party? In Ireland any member might attend a meeting of the Council without a summons. He believed it was usual in England that the members should be summoned. So that the decisions of the Privy Council might be considered as fair and impartial. He would support
 192
 Mr. Lynch  was an impartial witness on the occasion, although he had the honour to represent a town in which assizes were held; for that town was a county of itself, which necessarily caused the assizes to be holden there, and it was in the centre of the county in which it was situated—therefore there could be no fear in respect to Galway. He knew nothing of the disputes between Dungarvon and the city of Waterford, nor did he care for them; but he was convinced that the motives of his hon. and learned Friend in introducing the Bill were pure, and for what he conceived to be the public good; and this was the first time he heard it stated as an objection to an hon. Gentleman's bringing forward a measure, that in so doing he consulted the wishes of his constituents. It was with considerable pain he differed from his hon. and learned Friend, but he objected to the Bill, and to the tribunal to whose decision the Bill referred such important matter—for although he did entertain, with many other hon. Members, great respect for several individuals, Members of the Irish Privy Council, the question was, "had the people of Ireland confidence in that tribunal?" He had no hesitation in saying they had not. The case of England did not apply; the people of England might have confidence in their Privy Council—it was differently constituted, and there were not the same party and religious views. He was in favour of assimilating the laws of the two countries, as insisted upon by his hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney General, but he would commence the assimilation by giving to Ireland a good Reform Bill, a good Registration Bill, and a good Municipal Reform Bill, but he would not commence by any measure which would throw such increased power into the hands of Government. Could he be always certain that the country would possess, as at present, a liberal Government, these objections would, in a great measure, be removed. But another and a great difficulty would still remain—the increased taxation of the country—for, as admitted by his hon. and learned Friend, it would be necessary to erect new jails, and new court-houses. How could the country, in its present distressed and impoverished condition, bear increased taxation? This
 193
 Mr. Finn  said, he had an instinctive distrust of the Privy Council, whose powers the Irish people would diminish as much as they could.
 Sir Robert Bateson  remarked on the unusual want of harmony between the self-styled Liberals on the other side. Even on a question of liberality they could not agree, each individual claiming the palm of liberality and integrity to himself. But he (Sir R. Bateson) could not concede that those who assumed so much liberality were in truth liberal. It was by acts and not by professions, or assumptions, that liberality should be tested. The hon. Member for Wexford said there was no liberality in the Privy Council or Grand Juries. But could it be said that it was to be found among those who had so presumptuously arrogated it to themselves? He had been attending Grand Juries for thirty years, and he could declare that a more upright, liberal, and honourable body of men could not be found than those who were so foully, wantonly, and factiously maligned. In the Acts of Grand Juries there was certainly more liberality than in those of their accusers. He should, perhaps, have better consulted the dignity of Grand Jurors by treating the attacks upon them with silent indifference. As to the Question before the House, he thought the assizes should be held in a central town in every county. In the county of Antrim, for instance, the assizes were held in a corner of the county, and it was a great hardship on witnesses and jurors to attend them. So great was the inconvenience felt that most of the Gentlemen wished for a change. The
 194
 Sir Richard Musgrave  said, the majority of the Irish Members were opposed to the Bill; and a public meeting, convened by the Lord Lieutenant, and several Magistrates condemned its provisions.
 Mr. Shaw  vindicated the character of the Privy Council and Grand Juries. The Privy Council did not in the present case sit in open court, as they did when they sat judicially, but merely attended as a mere matter of form to give a sanction to the Act of the Government. The Act complained of was the Act of the Government, and the attacks on the Privy Council could only have proceeded from the grossest ignorance. He lamented that a simple Bill, having for its object the speedy and cheap administration of justice, should be thus made a Question of party. He would support the Bill.
 The Solicitor General  thought that the check to be imposed on seamen's quitting the vessel ought to be as small as was consistent with the safety of the owners. He did consider that the loss of two days' wages was sufficient to prevent absence. Eventually, it was agreed that words should be added to the clause enabling the owner to make the sailor re-imburse any expense occasioned by his absence.
 Mr. Chapman  moved as an Amendment, that the word "ten" should be left out, and the word "three" substituted in its place, whereby seamen would have a right to demand the full arrear of payment due to them within three days after their arrival at home, instead of within ten days, as was proposed by the original clause. The hon. Member considered that the evil of allowing sailors to wander up and down the streets for ten days after their arrival in England, exposed to all the temptations that beset them, before they could go to their friends in the country with their wages, or send their money to their friends, would be, in a great measure, avoided by this Amendment.
 Mr. O'Connell  re-called the attention of the Committee to the fourth clause, by which it was provided, that persons above the age of thirteen, and under the age of twenty-one, who should be found chargeable to the parish, or whose parents should beg, should be taken up and sent to sea. This clause applied, of course, to the
 199
 Captain Berkeley  supported the clause. In an attempt to get rid of a great evil, a smaller one might well be endured.
 Alderman Thompson  stated that the ship-owners, especially of Sunderland, objected to the description of apprentices which the Bill would compel them to take. They frequently sent their own sons to sea as apprentices, and would not like to have for associates such boys as those contemplated by the Bill. It was said, indeed, that the shipowner could get rid of the compulsion by the payment of 10 l.
 Captain Berkeley  corroborated the statement of the right hon. Baronet, and added, that a proof was afforded that a preventive existed in the fact that Admiral Sir C. Paget had been proceeded against for taking men out of an East Indiaman, and had been cast in the costs of the trial besides damages.
 Mr. Ruthven  said, that he would not do the naval officers of the country the injustice of supposing, that they would act improperly, but the House ought not by such a clause as this to place temptation in the way of seamen, to break through their engagements.
 Mr. Charles Wood  remarked, that the master of a vessel was placed, by this Act, on a superior footing to the country gentleman or shopkeeper; for the latter were subject to have parish apprentices forced upon them by the parish authorities whenever a vacancy occurred in their service; but the masters of vessels were exempted from the operation of the clause, in case their vessels had the number of apprentices required by the Act.
 Mr. Carruthers  suggested, that absence from the vessel twenty-four hours before the ship sailed should be visited by the deprivation of a week's pay, instead of two days.
 Mr. Robinson  remarked, that the sailors would not mind sacrificing one day's pay to have their twenty-four hours on shore before the vessel sailed. If three days were inserted instead of two, it would satisfy him.
 Mr. Robinson  observed, that he felt obliged, at the risk of disturbing the unanimity which prevailed in the Committee on the provision of the Bill, to object to the clause which had just been proposed. It appeared to be directed to the accomplishment of two objects; first, to oblige the owners and masters of vessels to employ a certain number of apprentices, with a prospective view of rendering them available, if required, for the public service. So far as the clause was meant to answer that purpose, he had no objection whatever to it; but the part of the proposed clause which he was opposed to was, where it gave to parish officers the power of applying to the Magistrates for an injunction to make it compulsory upon masters of vessels to take into their service parish apprentices, when they did not appear to have on board the number of apprentices provided by this Act. He considered such an interference with the right of the master to choose any apprentice he pleased to be altogether unjustifiable, and particularly when it was employed for the purpose of forcing him to receive into his service a class of persons whom it was most improbable that he would select if the matter were left to his own choice.
 Mr. Robinson  was sorry to disagree in opinion with the hon. Member for Tyne-mouth. It certainly was a hardship on shipowners, that sailors should have the power of quitting their service, and entering the Royal navy, before the voyage which they agreed to perform was finished. Though he was a shipwowner, he would allow the clause to pass in consideration of the great question of public policy it involved.
 Mr. Young  thought that the shorter way would be to provide that the owners should show the indentures of their apprentices at the Custom-house, before the vessels were allowed to clear out.
 Mr. George F. Young  said, that he could not help expressing his most decided objection to the clause. It involved the infraction of one of the first principles of justice, and tended to the demoralization of the seamen, whom it encouraged, after they entered into a solemn agreement with the shipowners to serve for a stipulated time, to break through their compact and volunteer into the Kind's service. He
 200
 Mr. Young  objected to the Amendment, on the ground that it was impossible for the captain to know for what embezzlement sailors might have to be answerable until after the cargo was discharged, and it was only in very rare instances that the cargo could be discharged within three days after arrival.
 Mr. George F. Young  was of opinion that this clause was calculated to operate most injuriously, inasmuch as it forced on the adoption of masters of vessels parish apprentices, who were a class of persons whom the masters must be very unwilling to receive into their employment, when they could easily procure others of a much superior class, and more likely to give them satisfaction.
 Mr. George F. Young  remarked, that though the law might not possibly enjoin it, it permitted this forfeiture to be exacted, and it was the universal practice in ships' articles to put in a clause stipulating that twenty-four hours' absence from the ship, while loading or unloading, should be considered as desertion, and be punished by the forfeiture of the whole of the absentee's wages.
 Mr. George F. Young  remarked, that in order to bring the Question to a definitive conclusion, he would submit as an Amendment, that after the words "period of time," in the twenty-first line, the following words should be inserted:—" or that the master shall be at liberty to hire two other men, and to deduct wages for the persons hired from the wages of the person so absenting himself."
 Mr. George F. Young  opposed it, as calculated to demoralize the British seamen. He should wish, at least, to have it applied only in time of war.
 Mr. Buckingham  opposed the clause, and again called on the Government to give some pledge from the Government against the impressment of seamen.
 Mr. Buckingham  observed, that last year he had entertained, in common with the right hon. Baronet, the desire of seeing a system of nominal registration, or registration by name, established; but the present clause simply proposed a registring of the classes and numbers of the seamen. He (Mr. Buckingham) was anxious to see a system of nominal registration in operation, because it would form the basis of a system of ballot and do away with impressment.
 Mr. Bagshaw  suggested that the clause might limit the number to be taken, to all over three men to every 100 tons, which, as four men were counted the proper complement, would be allowing a deduction of 25 per cent.
 Mr. Hume  thought that some provision ought to be made, limiting the extent to which volunteers should be allowed to go away from a merchant ship into the King's service.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that the only just ground upon which any alteration ought to be made in the old laws was, that they contained provisions which were not reconcilable to expediency and justice. He certainly considered that the clause in question was one which interfered with the free choice of the masters of vessels in a manner that was indefensible.
 Mr. Pease  observed that if parish apprentices were to be forced upon the owners of ships in the way contemplated by the Bill, those owners would never be able to get respectable apprentices again.
 Mr. Alsager  stated, it had often occurred to him to have a great portion of his crew, as many as thirty at a time, leave him in foreign ports, just at the time he most required their labour, and go on board the King's ships, induced to do so, by being told they would have less to do, and better recompensed. He thought the clause, if it passed, should be so framed as to compel sailors to finish their work on board merchant vessels, before they were allowed to engage in the Royal navy.
 Mr. Wakley  had to present sixteen Petitions, praying that the House would address the Throne to remit the sentence passed oh the Dorchester labourers. Eight of these petitions were from Dorchester, from the friends and neighbours of those men who were transported, and the other eight were from Ipswich, Rochester, Norwich, and one from Stoke-upon-Trent signed by 13,448 of the inhabitants. The petitioners considered, in the first place, that these men were improperly prosecuted; and, in the second place, that, if the prosecutions were just, the sentence was most severe and uncalled for. Considering all the circumstances of the case, he must say that these unfortunate men had been convicted under a law of which they were entirely ignorant, and that they merely followed the example set in London and other places, viz., of combining together for the purpose of obtaining such wages as would enable them to support themselves, their wives, and families. The relatives of these men, thus, if not illegally, certainly cruelly, punished, had been pursued by the same feelings of ill-will and oppression. One of them was a woman who had amongst those who were transported, two brothers, a husband, and a son. After these men left England she applied to the overseers for relief. The overseers said "No; we will give you no relief. You have another son left, and he has six shillings a week, which is quite sufficient for his and your support." He hoped the House would be induced to exercise its privilege of addressing the Crown upon this case. The proceedings against these men had caused the greatest uneasiness and agitation amongst the labouring classes. They felt that if these persons were not relieved by being brought back to England, they could not expect protection under the existing law, as they believed that they were not represented in that House, the elective franchise being confined to householders. He considered it the duty of that House to interpose for the purpose of bringing the men back to England. Till then the working classes would not be satisfied, nor could the law
 173
 Mr. Ewart  did not see why they should not get rid of a bad regulation, if it were one.
 Admiral Adam  said, that if the clause was given up, the Bill would entirely fail in one of its principal objects.
 Sir Edward Codrington  supported the
 201
 Sir E. Codrington  expressed his approbation of the Clause.
 Admiral Codrington  said, that were he the commanding officer, of an officer who had distressed a merchant ship by taking an improper number of men, he should direct them to be restored, and at least reprimand the officer.
 Sir James Graham  said, that the Bill contained such a provision of limitation. According to the instructions of the Board of Admiralty, no officer could unnecessarily take men out of merchant ships.
 Sir James Graham  said, that the only argument he had heard against the clause was, that it tended to the immorality of inducing breaches of contract. It should, however, not be forgotten that if the clause passed, it would be known to all parties, and it would be competent to them to frame their contracts accordingly.
 Sir James Graham  said, that such had been the law in England for above a century, but there had been no instance of any grievous application of it.
 Sir James Graham  protested against the supposition of this clause being considered compulsory on the masters of vessels with respect to the reception of parish apprentices into their service. They need not take those persons into their employment if they were willing to pay to the parish the sum of 10 l.
 Sir James Graham  was most anxious to see a system of nominal registration. If adopted, he thought it would be successful, but, at the same time, what he now proposed would effect a most material object, by enabling the Government to ascertain the precise state of the maritime population, while it would be a step towards that more perfect system which would accomplish the important national object which he, with the hon. Member for Sheffield, had anxiously in view—the speedy and total abolition of impressment in the navy.
 Sir James Graham  replied that the hon. Gentleman who had objected to this clause seemed to think that it contained an innovation in the laws respecting the appointment of parish apprentices to serve in merchant vessels; but the fact was, that the principle was adopted in all Acts relative to this subject since the time of Queen Anne. By the 3rd of Anne it was provided that every master of a vessel of twenty tons burthen should be liable to take parish apprentices; and in case of his not complying with this provision he was liable to a fine of 10 l. l. l. l. 198
 Sir James Graham  said, this clause had been originally framed so as to prevent the evil effects which too frequently resulted from the sailor having the whole of his pay the moment he got on shore. Unused as he had been to all indulgence during a long voyage, the sailor joined often the first idle person he met, displayed his money, and became a dupe to persons who were always, of course, lying in wait for such inconsiderate persons. As to the danger there might arise to the captain who was answerable for everything on board to his owners, and whose best security against embezzlement by the sailors arose out of the sailor having to wait some time before his wages were handed over to him, which afforded time to investigate whether any embezzlement had taken place, he assured the hon. Member there would be found sufficient security in another clause in the Bill to which their attention would be subsequently directed.
 Sir James Graham  thought that the seamen should have the right of changing from the Merchants' to the King's service if they chose, or saw any advantage in so doing. As they entered voluntarily into the merchant service, they ought to have the power of quitting it when they pleased for the King's service. He called upon the House not to reject the clause, and stop the only avenue through which, on foreign stations, the King's navy could be manned. It was impossible to overrate the advantages of this clause, and he would rather renounce the Bill altogether than give up the clause.
 Sir James Graham  had no objection to withdraw the 29th and 30th clauses, if it were understood that no objection would be made to the 51st, which was the most stringent one, as enabling authorized persons to go aboard vessels and see if they had a proper number of apprentices.
 Sir James Graham  was understood to deny, that under the present law seamen were liable to the forfeiture of the whole of their wages under the present circumstances mentioned by the hon. Member.
 Sir James Graham  said, that undoubtedly, where the interests of the owners were most deeply embarked, and exposed to the most risk, it would be right that the danger of desertion should be met by a very heavy penalty.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that he doubted very much whether this was a petition which the House could entertain. The hon. Member had been elected by his constituents to represent their interests in Parliament, and it was for the hon. Member alone to consider what was his duty in that situation. When the regular opportunity of another election was afforded, then would be the period for the electors to express their opinions on the subject.
 Mr. Pryme  was going to propose that the debate on the Question should be adjourned till to-morrow, but as he understood
 224
 Mr. Pryme  understood that the question before the House was, that the petition do lie on the Table. [" No, no.
 Mr. Villiers  said, communications had been made to him similar to those which had been stated by his honourable Colleague; and as he knew the mistrust that should attach to statements made under feelings of excitement, he had been anxious to learn the statements made on the other side, that might qualify the impression produced on his mind that a riot had been proclaimed where no disturbance of that character had existed—that the military had acted against a people who had not violated the law—and that the soldiers had, in the execution of their duty, acted with a violence as unnecessary as he felt thankful was unusual on their part. He must confess the counter-statements were not satisfactory to his mind. He had some guide by which he could measure the amount of disturbance that had prevailed. He had received letters from persons who viewed this matter in a different light, but who were all agreed as to the fact that the disturbance could not be named in comparison with that which occurred at the time of his own election for the borough. At that time he had not the fortune to be the popular candidate, and he had been somewhat roughly handled, and his committee had been ill-used. Windows had
 229 230
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, that the person appointed to conduct the investigation might be armed with a commission of the peace for the county.
 Mr. Goulburn  wished to know when the noble Secretary for the Home Department intended to make his statement on the subject of Municipal Corporations? He also begged to direct the attention of the noble Lord to another point. He had been informed that one of the Corporation Commissioners had made a separate Report to the noble Lord, and he was anxious to know whether the noble Lord would have any objection to lay that Report upon the Table of the house?
 Mr. Blackburne  hoped that, on account of the office which he held in the Corporation Commission, he might be permitted to say a few words upon the subject to which the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge alluded. By the Commission, power was given to any three or more Commissioners to make a Report, but no power was given to any single Commissioner to do so. A Report had been prepared by all the Commissioners in the kingdom now alive, with the exception of two, one of whom was the gentleman whose protest was on the Table of the House, and the other, the gentleman who, he understood (for he had held no personal communication with him) had just sent a Report into the Home-office. According to the Commission, it was the duty of that Gentleman to have sent in his Report to the Board. He was appointed to go a circuit, and ought to have sent his Report with the evidence which he collected to the Board, but with the exception of two cases, which were of no importance whatever, he had
 243
 Mr. Blackburne  said, the Report for London was not yet quite ready; that for Liverpool was in the hands of the printers, and might be expected to be ready in a few days.
 Mr. Blackburne  said, that with the exception of the Report for the Corporation of London, and those delayed by the Commissioner—
 Mr. Blackburne  —The Commissioner's name is Hogg.
 Mr. Blackburne  —Certainly: with these two exceptions, the remainder of the Reports will be on the Table?
 Mr Blackburne  had not felt it his duty
 244
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  (across the Table): That was an accident.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that if the right hon. Baronet's views were right, an inquiry could do no harm; but, if they were wrong, it was natural that those who entertained them should shrink from inquiry. If the House looked back to the calamities produced by the Bill of the year 1819, they would feel the necessity of the inquiry now
 326 l. l. 327 l. l. l. Hamlet Hamlet 328 s. s. d. 329
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that after the arguments which had been
 330 331 l. s. d 
 
 An Account of the Saving accrued to the Public by the Conversion of Stock from a higher to a lower rate of Interest. 
 Capital. Interest on the Capital. Saving. 
 At the highest rate of Interest. At the highest rate of Interest. 
 £ £ £ £ 
 1822. 
 Capital £5 per Cents., after deducting£2,794,318 dissents 149,627,825 7,481,391 .. 1,197,022 
 Capital of the New Stock, 4 per Cents., including the bonus of £7,481,393 1826. 157,109,218 .. 6,284,363 
 Capital £4 per Cents., after deducting£6,149,246 dissents 70,105,403 2,804,216 2,453,619 350,597 
 Capital £3 10 s. 
 Capital £4 per Cents., after deducting£2,649,366 dissents 151,021,728 6,040,869 .. 755,110 
 Capital £3 10 s. 150,818,425 .. 5,285,759 
 Capital £4 per Cents. The same Capital in £3 10 s. 10,622,911 424,916 371,800 53,116 
 TOTAL..£ 2,355,845 332 l. 333 334 335 
 
 Not exceeding 5 l. 56,236 
 Not exceeding 10 l. 29,202 
 Not exceeding 50 l. 63,482 
 148,920 
 Not exceeding 30 l. 32,549
 Captain Chetwynd  said, that after what had passed the other night he could not contest the first reading of the Bill, without going into all the details and bearings of the case. He should, therefore, reserve to himself the right of opposing that Bill in the second reading with all the abilities he possessed. He was induced to take that course because, during his short Parliamentary experience he had known that to be the usual way of proceeding. But he begged leave to state to the House that t was not from any fear of the weakness of his case or the apprehension of any opposition that might be brought against him, for he trusted that at the second reading he should be able to make such a statement as to prove that there existed at present no necessity for the Bill and that statements, false, and without foundation, had been industriously spread against the Borough for the purpose of misleading and prejudicing the minds of hon. Members. As a proof of the latter, he would only then refer to the notice of a motion, as far back as the 18th of last May, by the lion. Member for Limerick, for transferring the franchise to the county if Cork, which clearly proved that there existed at least in the mind of that hon. Member no hesitation as to the course he should pursue, even before the Bill was brought in. But he earnestly entreated
 209
 Mr. Cressett Pelham  said, he wished to hear evidence, and not  ex parte
 Lord John Russell  said, in reply to the right hon. Gentleman's first question, he Must inform him, that as the hon. Member for Yorkshire intended to bring forward his motion respecting the currency, that evening, he would postpone his Motion respecting Municipal Corporations till Friday next. With respect to the second question, it was certainly true that he had received what was stated on the face of it, to be a Report from a single commissioner; but it did not appear to him to be a Report in conformity with the directions contained in the Commission—namely, a Report with respect to a certain part of the inquiry which had been referred to the commissioner. The document contained a great deal of personal matter—of crimination and recrimination, with respect to other members of the Commission, and he had some doubt, until he examined it more attentively, whether he could consider it a Report that ought to be laid before the House.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the hon. Member had stated certain facts which were represented to have recently occurred at Wolverhampton, and a statement of a similar nature had been forwarded to him (Lord John Russell) by Mr. Roaf, whereupon he immediately directed that the magistrate who had called in the assistance of the military should give a full account of the transaction. He had likewise communicated with the Commander-in-Chief, in order that he might procure every information and account with respect to what had taken place on the occasion. The hon. Member had proposed that some agent of Government should be sent down to inquire into the subject. He thought such a course would be exceedingly inconvenient, as an agent so sent by the Government could only receive the voluntary deposition of any person who might choose to come before him, and would not be authorized to make any regular inquiry into the transaction. The evidence which he would receive was not likely, therefore, to be of such a character as to warrant the Government in founding further proceedings upon it. All he could say was, that every account of the melancholy transaction that came to his office should be laid before that House. For his part, he was only anxious that the fullest inquiry should take place into the affair; and if, after statements were made by different parties, it should be deemed necessary that a further investigation should be made, his only wish was that it should be an impartial investigation. In the mean time he begged that no  ex parte 228
 Lord John Russell  would make a few observations, in consequence of what had just fallen from his hon. Friend. He stated before that he had no objection to an inquiry being made into the transaction; on the contrary, he was anxious for the fullest and most impartial inquiry. He had only objected to the proposed mode of investigation, which was to be carried on by a person sent down by the Government, without having authority to compel persons to give evidence. However, if his hon. Friend said that an inquiry of that nature was more likely to give satisfaction than any other, he had no hesitation in saying that he was ready to take the necessary measures for setting it on foot.
 Lord John Russell  had to state, in reply, that, both in the statement of the Magistrates and the High Constable the conduct of the military was spoken of as being marked by the utmost forbearance. Undoubtedly, he had not wished to state any particular facts in opposition to what had been stated on the other side, because his doing so might have led to a debate. He, therefore, did not wish to state anything more than the opinion expressed by the Magistrates and High Constable on that point. Still he might be allowed to say generally that the Members of that House, knowing, by experience, what the conduct of the British army was, ought not lightly to believe that the military had, on the occasion in question, violated the rules of discipline, and made a wanton attack on individuals.
 Lord John Russell  understood that the hon. Gentleman proposed to bring forward the petition with a view to obtaining some decision on the subject, but he agreed with the right hon. Member opposite that this was a question upon which the House could come to no decision. It was a question between a representative and his constituents with regard to certain statements which he was supposed to have made to
 223
 Major Beauclerk  could not concur with the hon. Member in censuring the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, for the course which he had resolved to take with reference to the subject under consideration. He believed that the decision to which the noble Lord had come would give universal satisfaction to the people, who were anxious to know whether the riot at Wolverhampton had been created by the higher or the lower classes. He was sure that if the matter were to be brought under the notice of any public meeting, the conduct of the noble Lord, in consenting to an investigation into this unfortunate transaction would be unanimously approved of.
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  claimed the indulgence of the House, while he offered a short statement in reference to the petition now presented, and the extraordinary charge made against his character as a Member of Parliament. The petition stated that a pledge had been given by him to his constituents, and that the proof of the pledge was—
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  thought it due not only to himself, but to the House, to take the earliest opportunity of bringing the Question before it. He was now ready to adopt any course that the House might desire, and would either avail himself of its indulgence now or at a future period: but he certainly felt very anxious to answer this extraordinary charge. He did not ask the favour of a hearing as a private individual, but as a Member of the House, against whom an attack had been made in language inconsistent with the credit and character of a Member of Parliament. He trusted that, as on former occasions the courtesy of a hearing had been extended to Members under similar circumstances, he might now or on the first convenient opportunity be allowed to vindicate himself.
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  said, that he should be sorry to make any statement which another party might not have an opportunity of answering, and if it were the sense of the House that he ought not to press the subject, he would not avail himself of that opportunity.
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  said, that a gross and unprovoked attack having been made upon him in some of the public journals, he begged to put a question to the hon. Member for Hastings, who had been intrusted with a petition bearing on the case. He wished to know when the hon. Member intended to bring forward that petition, in order that he might have an opportunity of replying to the allegations contained in it in his place? He hoped, as the petition conveyed a serious charge against him, that the hon. Member would present it without delay.
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  said, that as an extraordinary attack had been made upon him in his public character, he trusted the House would extend its courtesy to him in the
 221
 Major Cumming Bruce  rose to entreat the indulgence of the House, and in particular, to request the attention of the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Falkirk, while he alluded to the discussion which had taken place in the House on Wednesday last, on the presentation of a number of petitions relative to the Church of Scotland. He should do so as shortly as possible. The hon. Member, on presenting some petitions on the same subject, before the recess, had indulged in observations by which a distinguished and estimable clergyman of that Church, considered himself, and the body of men to which he belonged, deeply aggrieved. He had remonstrated by letter with the hon. Member, and after explaining to him in what respect he considered his statements erroneous or unfounded, had called on the
 211 212 Courier 213 Courier, ex uno disce omnes. 214 215 Courier, monstre-proces, 216 217
 Mr. Forster  said, that in consequence of the absence of his hon. Friend, the Member for North Staffordshire (who was suffering from indisposition), he had been requested to make known a short statement on the part of the Magistrates of Staffordshire, whose conduct had been most unjustly impugned by  ex parte " To the Right Hon. the Secretary of State for the Home Department. "My Lord,—In compliance with the request contained in your Lordship's letter of yesterday's date, that the fullest information may be supplied relative to the proceedings subsequent to the close of the poll in this town, we beg to state, that during the whole of the last day of the poll the conduct of the multitudes of people assembled in the streets was very violent; many respectable persons were rolled in the mud, and assailed with mud and stones, and some seriously injured, and we received repeated applications to send for a military force, as of about forty or fifty special constables who had been sworn in, and were all that could be procured at the time, some did not act, and the rest were completely overpowered. The undersigned, therefore, sent for a troop of the 1st Dragoon Guards from Dudley, six miles off, requesting them to come within a mile of the town, and to halt there till they heard from us again. At the close of the poll the number of people increased so rapidly, and their behaviour was so violent,
 231 "At about two o'clock on Thursday morning the town was quiet, and all the troops were sent to their quarters, except sixteen who remained on duty all night. "Four persons have been ascertained to have received gunshot wounds, one of them in the knee, which rendered amputation necessary; and we believe one man is also wounded, not severely by a sword: none are yet dead. 232 "We should be doing injustice to the officers and soldiers employed if we did not express our admiration of their steadiness and forbearance under circumstances of no ordinary provocation: only one example occurred to the contrary, in a soldier who was found to be drunk, and placed in confinement early in the evening. Several swords were broken, from the soldiers striking with the flat side of them. "We have not been able to ascertain how many shots were fired, but as the soldiers have a regular number of cartridges given out to them, the report of the officers to the Commander-in-Chief will doubtless furnish that particular. "A statement has appeared in the London papers purporting to be a declaration of certain persons before Mr. Roaf, a Dissenting minister here, which is very much at variance with the truth. Two of the parties—one of them a special constable—have been heard to say before the mob, that they (the mob) must be taught to fire and mark their men. It is, we believe, ascertained that a bullet, stated to have been fired into a house in Queen-street has been found on examination to be too large for the soldiers' fire-arms. This requires no comment. "A report of the conduct of the mob, which rendered it necessary for Mr. Briscoe, another Magistrate, to read the Riot Act on Thursday and Friday nights, happily without the soldiers being afterwards called upon to act, has doubtless been submitted to your Lordship, and we are happy to add that this night has passed off without disturbance. (11 p.m.) "We have the honour to remain "Your Lordship's obedient servants,
 Mr. Forster , in explanation, stated, that the Magistrate by whom the Riot Act was read at Wolverhampton happened to be a liberal politician, and a supporter of the popular candidate—Colonel Anson. With respect to the population of the district where the disturbances in question arose, all that he had said was, that its character was peculiar. He alluded to the colliers and iron-workers, who could not be called a refined class.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that before he made the few observations which he intended to address to the House, he was desirous that the Resolution which had been come to by the House upon this subject, in the year 1833, should be read.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  resumed:—He had thought it right to recall this Resolution to the memory of the House, as there were many Gentlemen present who might not have been Members during the last Parliament, and therefore, perhaps, might be unacquainted with it. That Resolution was adopted by the House after three nights' debate, and after a solemn and important discussion. He had more particularly called the attention of the House to it, because, although it had been difficult for him, though he had listened to the speech of the hon. Member with the utmost attention, to make out definitively what the hon. Member's object was, supposing the House granted the Committee he proposed, still it had seemed to him, if he was aiming at anything, that the hon. Member must be aiming at
 299 300 Hear, hear. 301 302 303 s. s. s. s., s. s. No, 304 no! s. s. l. s. l., 305 306 l. l. s. s.,
 Mr. Wodehouse  rose to support it, and expressed his conviction that all other remedies than those which it proposed would prove utterly ineffectual, although he knew that it would be objected that that argument came too late. The present Question involved the whole question of the pressure of taxation, and it was his opinion, that it was not only idle to expect that remonstrances on this subject should cease, but also that they should be from time to time repeated with increasing importunity. He had been one of the Committee which sat in 1822 upon this subject, and he had been one of a small minority who were opposed to the adoption of their Report, on the ground put forward by Mr. Huskisson, that it did not sufficiently take into consideration the altered value of money. He had been impressed with the necessity of that point being duly considered from reading the opinions which had been advanced by Mr. Huskisson several months before, and especially in
 297 298
 Mr. Lechmere Charlton  said, that, after the  ex-parte
 Mr. Lechmere Charlton : If the soldiers were not to fire, of what use would it be to call them in at all? It was necessary upon such unfortunate occasions to commit a small evil in order to prevent a greater. He trusted that he was as humane a man as the hon. Member for Middlesex, and he really thought it was practising humanity in such cases to disperse a riotous mob by means of the military, in order to prevent the terrible scenes which would result from allowing it to obtain the ascendancy, and this could always be effected with the smallest amount of injury to persons, when the magistrates and soldiers exhibited a determination to perform their duty. A letter which he had received stated, that in order to ascertain what description of weapon it was, by which the horse of the dragoon was killed, a wound corresponding with that by which it met its death, was made on the opposite side of the animal, and it was found that the weapon must have been four inches and a half in length. He put it to the House, and even to the hon. Member for Middlesex, to consider what might have been the consequence if a mob, having amongst them weapons of this description, and doing every thing in their power by gestures and language to excite to violence, had not been dispersed by the military? As far as the soldiers were concerned, he was pleased that there was to be an investigation, because he was convinced that on this, as
 241 ex parte
 Mr. Baines  wished to know (as we understood the hon. Member) whether, in the case of the Commissioner alluded to, the hon. Member had thought it right to "stop the supplies?"
 Mr. Cayley : The right hon. Gentleman says it was a mere accident. It was no accident: it was the result of a vicious system. Whenever the Bank, it is well known, wishes to enlarge its circulation, it buys up Exchequer bills, sending out its notes in their place. On the other hand, when it wishes suddenly to diminish its circulation, it sells Exchequer bills. It has lately been selling them, because its gold has, for the last twelve months, been gradually reduced from 10,000,000 l. l. l. There was no doubt that the efforts which the Bank of England had been making during the last twelve months to prevent the drain of gold, by contracting its circulation, had been counteracted by the course pursued by other banks of issue, During the period to which he had referred, the circulation of those banks had increased in the same proportion as that of the Bank of England had decreased. If this state of things should continue—if something should not be done to remedy the evil—it certainly would throw a heavy responsibility upon the Bank of England, and render it almost impossible for them to go on under the existing regulations. l. 289 l. l. 
 
 Average amount of Coin and Bullion held by the Bank of England in the years 
 1798 £6,187,520 
 1799 7,282,340 
 1800 5,647,350 
 1801 4,487,690 
 1802 4,022,365 
 1803 3,684,625 
 1804 4,625,665 
 1805 6,754,150 
 1806 6,101,105 
 1807 6,313,595 
 1808 6,935,705 
 1809 4,070,590 
 12)66,112,700 
 5,509,391 8/12 ths. 290 l., l., l. 291 
 
 Agricultural occupiers 1,500,000 
 Agricultural labourers 4,800,000 
 Mining interest 600,000 
 6,900,000 
 Manufactures 2,400,000 
 Millers, takers, and butchers 900,000 292 
 
 Artificers builders &c 650,000 
 Tailors, shoemakers, and hatters 1,080,000 
 Shopkeepers 2,100,000 
 Clerical, legal, and medical 450,000 
 Disabled paupers 110,000 
 Proprietors, annuitants 1,116,398 
 6,406,398 293 294 At such a crisis, Parliament, if it be not then sitting, ought to be called together; and if it cannot relieve you, its powers are at an end. Tell me not (continued Mr. Pitt) that Parliament cannot protect—it is omnipotent to protect. 295 s. s. s., s. s. s. s., s. 296
 Mr. Cayley : *—Before I proceed to direct the attention of the House to the subject of the Motion with which I shall conclude, I will take the liberty of shortly stating the reasons which have induced me to persist in bringing it forward, against a prevailing wish in the House, that the subject of Corporate Reform should have precedence. Sir, I know I stand on unpopular grounds with many Members on account of what they may term my obstinate determination in this respect: and I feel I owe, and am ready to make, an apology to the House, for thus interfering between it and so important a measure, as that of Municipal Reform. If I were actuated by any private or personal considerations, I should be ashamed to find myself standing where I am at such a juncture; but feeling that I am guided on this occasion by a sense of public duty, and by that alone, I confess I feel relieved in a great measure of the responsibility. It is not that I underrate the importance of Corporation Reform; but that such is the fallen state of British agriculture, that I can conceive no Question of such pressing importance. I appeal to every Member around me who knows the condition of the farmer—not by hearsay, merely, but who has seen his distress, as it were, bodily before his eyes—whether I am not justified in my resolution. I think, moreover, I ought not to be condemned for an obstinate perseverance in this Motion, before the case is fully understood. I gave notice of it on the first day of the Session, for the 19th of May; at that time, the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, was not in the House, and at the request of my right hon. Friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) I postponed it—very unwillingly, indeed, as he will testify—on the ground that it would be inconvenient to the Ministry to have it brought forward in the noble Lord's absence. At the same time, there was a distinct understanding between my right hon. Friend and myself, that I should have every facility from the Government in bringing the Motion forward this day. Besides, this was the
 *From a corrected Report. 245 246 l. 247 s. s. Mark Lane Express, s. d.
 Mr. Cayley : Sir, I know that, according to the strict rules of the House, I have not—as my motion is, in fact, an amendment on going into a Committee of Supply—the right of reply; I trust, however, to the indulgence of the House, to allow me to say a few words in explanation. I have been taxed with a desire to injure the working-class by a rise of prices. Sir, I repel the charge with indignation. If there be a class in the community to whom I wish well—for whose benefit I would labour day and night—and whom I seek more than another to benefit by the measures I propose—it is the working-class. What is the value of low prices to that class, with-
 337
 Mr. Cayley : Then, Sir, since I am not allowed to say more—although there are many points to which I should have wished to address myself—I will only add, in two words—the right hon. Gentlemen who have spoken against the Motion have entirely misapprehended or perverted its object. Whatever my opinion of the necessities of the case may be, my motion does not ask for a depreciation of the standard of value; and whatever their opinion may be of the results of the measure I propose to the labouring class, my firm conviction is—that that class, and their employers, would be equally benefitted by it.
 Mr. Divett  moved the first reading of the Stafford Disfranchisement Bill.
 Mr. Shaw  apprehended, that without any motion or question being before the House, any hon. Member might fairly claim its indulgence to offer any explanation in answer to a charge affecting his character as a Member of the House.
 Mr. Robinson  thought it was due to the hon. Member for St. Andrew's, either that the petition should be withdrawn or that the hon. Member should have an opportunity of defending himself. As far as his experience extended, hon. Members, when accused, had always been allowed to vindicate themselves. It was a question of feeling and discretion, however, on the part of the House, for, he admitted the discussion to be altogether irregular.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, that the soldiers had never a more painful duty to perform than that of repressing violence on the part of the people. The House had heard different hon. Members, some criminating and others defending the conduct of the military during the late disturbances at Wolverhampton. It appeared from the statement read by the hon. Member for
 236
 The Speaker  said, the only question before the House was, whether the hon. Member for St. Andrew's should be allowed to speak upon a petition not yet presented, and to give a full explanation of his conduct.—The House might perhaps not consider the present a convenient opportunity, inasmuch as the petition appeared to be of a nature which could not be received. The House had not hitherto entered into discussions between constituents and representatives; whereas the prayer of the petition required that it should do so in this instance.
 The Speaker  said, that the petition had not been brought up. The hon. Member was proposing to present it when he had been called on to read the prayer of the petition, that the House might see whether it could be received.
 The Speaker : I must remind the hon. Member that he is exceeding the limits of an explanation.
 Mr. Benett  said, that the ingenious speech which they had heard from the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade would have been of much greater value had it been delivered in the year 1816 or in 1819. Nobody thought anything then about the robbery that was committed upon the debtor, although so much was now said about robbing the creditor. The poor man was then robbed without remorse; but now the rich creditor must not be touched. He denied that the present Motion was calculated or intended to depreciate the standard of value. By going back to a silver currency no such effect
 311
 Mr. John Maxwell  rose merely to protest against the stigma which was constantly applied to Members who supported inquiry into the monetary system. The motion was always narrowed into personal interests, into a question of Gentlemen creditors and Gentlemen debtors; and the condition of 24 millions of industrious persons, whose means of employment have been wrested from them given to parties living on the taxes, is wholly overlooked He (Mr. Maxwell) as a representative of those 24 millions, demanded that any mistake which had deprived them of employment, by taking away part of the means of their employers, should be inquired into, and, if possible, rectified. He wished that no part of the funds which gave them work and bread should be transferred unjustly, or from erroneous legislation, to others—more particularly to placemen, pensioners and fundholders, who had no right to them. Many of the working classes who had by their savings built, or purchased a house, had all swallowed up by the increased value of money. It could never be too late to discover truth and to do justice, and whatever stigma might follow his vote, it should be given to an inquiry to relieve agriculture, by relieving those who consume, as well as those who produce agricultural produce.
 Mr. Richards  said, that it was with extreme regret he heard the opinions expressed by the right hon. Gentleman (the President of the Board of Trade) in opposition to the present Motion. The right hon. Gentleman had expressed his sympathy for the condition of the agricultural interests; hut if he felt this sympathy, why did he oppose inquiry? He expressed his sympathy, but he resisted inquiry, because, as he said, the hon. Member for Yorkshire had laid no grounds for his Motion. Who was it, he would ask, that looked at the disturbances that prevailed in the agricultural districts of the country—who was it that looked at the fires in Kent and other counties, or who witnessed the misery and distress of the agricultural labourers—that did not see that there was ample ground for the present motion? Surely this deep distress ought to be attended to by the House. When he came down to the House that evening he inquired what was the cause of such a full attendance of Members that he could scarcely get a seat, and he was told that it was the expected discussion on the Wolverhampton riots. He had great deference for the judgment and discretion of the House, and therefore could not think of doubting the propriety of everything it did. He found that the inquiry demanded as to the Wol-
 312 forma pauperis 313 s. 314 315
 Mr. Roebuck  hoped that the hon. Gentleman would persevere; when the hon. Member for St. Andrew's called on the House to afford him an opportunity to refute the charge made against him in his character of a member of that House, it was only fair to hear his vindication, as otherwise the charge would continue to hang over him unless he had an opportunity to wipe off the stain.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the military might be free from blame for their conduct at Wolverhampton; but what was wanted was an inquiry which would prove satisfactory to the people; and it was, certainly, a matter of regret and astonishment that the noble Lord had not at once instituted an inquiry into the matter. The noble Lord would do well to convince the people of this country that, when they were attacked, the Government would be found ready to protect them. It was the noble Lord's duty, as Secretary for the Home Department, to take care that the peace of the country was preserved; and he trusted that he would inquire what measures were adopted by the civil power at Wolverhampton to maintain order. There was, in this country, a mode of preserving the peace by civil agents, and it was the duty of the Government to ascertain whether that mode was resorted to in the present instance before recourse was had to military aid. It was essential that the inquiry should be conducted in such a manner as would be entirely free from local and political influences. Again he would impress upon the noble Lord the necessity of directing his attention to the manner in which the civil authorities had prepared to suppress any breach of the peace that might have been expected to occur. He agreed with the hon. Member for Birmingham, that it was to be deplored that, whenever any mischief was done, a clergyman was sure to be a principal actor in it. He hoped that the present Ministry would take care that no more clergymen should be appointed Magistrates. If they wished to support the character of the Church, and prevent the conduct of the clergy from being called in question, they would remove every clergyman from the commission of the peace. Ministers might depend upon it, that there was nothing so likely to raise the clergy in the opinion of the people as the course which he recommended.
 240
 Mr. Hume  was sorry to interrupt the hon. Gentleman, but must observe, that unless the hon. Member meant to conclude by presenting the petition, there was no question before the House.
 Mr. Hume  rose to order. A Member stated that his character had been assailed and asked for an opportunity to defend himself. The House ought to give the hon. Member the opportunity he claimed.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the right hon. Member for Montgomeryshire seemed entirely to have forgotten the part he took in the case of Mr. Walsh, which occurred at
 222
 Mr. Hume : The sentence on Mr. Walsh had been reversed, and therefore there was no charge against him, as far as the law was concerned, he was merely exposed to the imputation of moral guilt.
 Mr. Scholefield  said, that the hon. Member spoke of the ferocity of the population.
 Mr. Scholefield  said, that, in compliance with the noble Lord's recommendation, he should not have been disposed to trouble the House with any  ex parte "We have the strongest evidence to prove that the town was tranquil up to the arrival of the military, which was just before the poll closed. About seven o'clock a stone was thrown at the Swan window; this was considered a breach of the peace; the Riot Act was read, and the military were immediately let loose upon the people. They first charged in a body; they then separated and galloped up and down the streets in parties of three, two, and even singly, firing at and brutally
 237 It is worthy of remark that no person of the Tory party has been hurt, and, as I before mentioned, only four or five panes of glass were broken, on the first night at the Swan. Respecting the dragoon's horse that was killed, it appears that the soldiers were riding furiously up the market-place, and two of the horses fell; on getting up the horses, it was found that one had been wounded with a sharp instrument, between the fourth and fifth rib, which penetrated about five inches; and it is supposed that the horse fell upon one of the soldier's swords. No one was within twenty yards of the soldiers at the time; no bullet was found in the horse; it is not true, therefore, that the horse was shot." 238 Forster
 Mr. Methuen  rose to order. The House ought not to constitvte itself a judge in such a case: it was a matter between the hon. Member and his constituents.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson , on presenting the petitions in favour of the Church of Scotland, said, the petitioners uniformly prayed for the extension of the benefits of religious instruction, which they considered to be at present not sufficiently distributed to the great majority of their poorer countrymen, nor capable of being effectually secured to them by the adoption of the voluntary principle. They observed that it was, therefore, the more necessary that the Church of Scotland should be enabled to extend its salutary influence by means of a limited aid from the public funds, for the purpose, not so much of enabling her to build new fabrics, as of endowing such new churches as might be built by public subscription. Never had there been so much misconception or misinterpretation on any question brought before Parliament within his recollection, as on this. It had been said that 1,000,000 l., l., l. l. 210
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  said, that the hon. Member for St. Andrew's was only anxious to vindicate himself. The hon. Member felt, in common with those Gentlemen who had looked into the case, that he was clear in honour; and therefore it appeared hard, after reflections had been made on his character, that he was not allowed an opportunity of defending himself. However, if his hon. Friend could not make his defence without taking an advantage over his constituents, he agreed with the right hon. Baronet, that the hon. Member had better abstain from going into the case; but he trusted it would go forth to the public that no statement had been made in that House which could in the slightest manner affect the honour of his hon. Friend.
 Mr. Thornely : The hon. Member hat misunderstood me. I expressed a doubt as to the right of the military to fire on such occasions.
 Mr. Thornely  wished to put a question to the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) relative to the recent interference of the military at Wolverhampton. He held in his hand letters from individuals resident in the town and neighbourhood (one of whom was Mr. Roaf, a dissenting minister), which stated that, subsequent to the close of the poll at four o'clock on Wednesday last, the soldiery had been most improperly brought into the town, although there was no disturbance to justify their interference. One of the letter-writers stated, that few elections had ever passed off with less violence on the part of the people. At six o'clock in the evening, Mr. Hill, a magistrate, who resided at a distance of three miles from Wolverhampton, went home, apprehending no tumult or violence. Notwithstanding there appeared to have been very little confusion or disorder, the military were called in, and the Riot Act having been read, they charged the people. The result was, that one man received a shot, in consequence of which his leg had to be amputated; another person was wounded, and would probably be lamed for life; and a third received a bullet, which had been attended with serious consequences—so much so, that the individual's life was endangered. He understood the military went about the town singly and in pairs, firing through doors, so that it was extraordinary many lives had not been lost. The only confusion of any consequence, as he was informed, took place in front of the Swan, Sir F. Goodricke's hotel, but notwithstanding the street opposite to the house had been recently macadamized, only four panes of glass were broken in the windows. He could not understand on what grounds the military had been brought into Wolverhampton; and, as it appeared to him, the case required investigation. He did not know on what
 227
 Mr. Gillon  trusted, that whenever the subject should be brought on, the hon. Member for Hastings would bring up the petition, in order to afford other hon. Members an opportunity of speaking, as well as the hon. Member for St. Andrew's.
 Mr. Gillon : Having been personally alluded to by the hon. Gentleman, the House would, he was sure, allow him the opportunity of explaining. In presenting some petitions against any additional grant for the Church of Scotland, he did make certain statements with respect to the
 218 219 l. l. l. l. 220
 Mr. Gillon  moved the adjournment of the debate and the gallery was cleared for a division.
 Sir Charles Burrell  addressed the House, and read an extract from the late Sir R. Peel's pamphlet on the currency, in which the advantage of an abundant over a restricted currency, was pointed out, with a view to the promotion of national prosperity. The ill effects occasioned by a diminution of the currency in 1819 had been foreseen, and it was justly argued that distress must arise from taking 3,200,000 l. 336
 Mr. Elphinstone  said, that a petition had been consigned to him by an individual, referring to some peculiar circumstances that arose in relation to the hon. Member for St. Andrew's and his constituents.—Since the petition came into his hands he had had an interview with the petitioner, who authorized him to abstain from presenting it, provided the hon. Member would consent to refer certain documents, which he would mention, to gentlemen whom the hon. Member had himself chosen as arbitrators in the case to which the petition related. He was willing to present the petition notwithstanding, if that should be thought the better course, although he feared it might be found to be rather irregularly worded. The documents which he ventured to suggest to the hon. Member to refer to arbitrators were, first, a statement published by the electors of St. Andrew's; and second, an affidavit sworn to by—
 Mr. Elphinstone  was ready to present the petition as a matter of form, and would read it, if the House wished.
 Mr. Elphinstone  observed, that he had already previously informed the hon. Member that he intended to lay the matter before the House. He would now proceed to read the petition, offering no comment on its contents. The petition was from Robert Anstruther, Esq., of Third Part, in the county of Fife, and the petition set forth, that Mr. A. Johnston had been elected for the borough of St. Andrew's, and had publicly pledged himself to resign his seat in case a majority of his constituents required it. The following was a copy—
 Mr. Elphinstone : The prayer of the petition was, that the House would be pleased to take into consideration a matter so gravely affecting the honour of a Member of the House.
 Mr. Elphinstone  thought that there could be no fairer course than to lay the document before the House.
 Mr. Elphinstone  moved that the petition be brought up.
 Mr. Elphinstone  was willing to withdraw the petition, in compliance with what appeared to be the wish of the house.
 Sir John Wrottesley  said, that he had never risen in that House with more painful feelings than he did at present. He had received a statement respecting the transaction which was the subject of the debate—of course an  ex parte 234 Laughter. 235
 Sir Robert Peel  spoke to order; he could not help thinking that the course the hon. Member was taking was likely to involve the House in considerable difficulty. It appeared to be clearly the opinion of the House that this was a matter in which it had no jurisdiction. It related to a Member who was said to have entered into certain engagements with his constituents, with which engagements, however, the House had nothing to do. If so, he doubted the policy of the hon. Member going into a statement of the matter, especially as the hon. Gentleman might possess an advantage which he himself would probably not desire to avail himself of, in making a statement which other parties could not answer in the same place. If, after an explanation from the hon. Member, the House should refuse to receive the petition, the difficulty would be increased by having heard an  ex parte 225
 Sir Robert Peel : I feel it my duty to take my share of any unpopularity that may attach to the refusal of this Committee. The hon. Gentleman who has just spoken has made a strong appeal to the feelings of the House, and has expatiated on the distress of the agricultural interest—which distress I admit. The hon. Gentleman also dwells on the hardships of a refusal to inquire into the distress. But, Sir, the hon. Gentleman knows, as well as I do, that the main object of this Motion is not inquiry into that distress, but that the purpose of it—not avowed in direct terms, but in the escape of those candid confessions which have fallen unawares from every speaker in its favour—is the depreciation of the standard of the currency. By every Gentleman who has spoken it is admitted, that, try what remedies you please, unless you give relief to the productive classes, by diminishing the fixed and permanent burdens of the country, through an alteration of the standard, no other remedy will give relief. What is the natural inference to be drawn from this language, but that depreciation is intended? If I resist the granting of a Committee of Inquiry into Agricultural Distress, it is because I know that no effectual relief would result from it. We had, in 1832, a Committee fully and fairly appointed on this very subject. They directed their best attention to the state of the agricultural interest. Every possible evidence was afforded to that Committee. That evidence received the amplest consideration, and the result was, that the Committee tendered their advice to the House, that they should, above all
 316 317 318 319 pro tanto,  320 res integra, s. s. s. s. 321 s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. 322 s. s. l. s. d. s. s. 323 324 325
 Sir Robert Peel  —Then, with these two exceptions, shall we have all the other Reports?
 Sir Robert Peel  inquired if all the Reports, with the exception of that for London, was on the Table?
 Sir Robert Peel  asked, whether the hon. Member could inform him when the Reports, respecting the London and Liverpool Corporations might be expected.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  observed, that the hon. Member for Middlesex spoke in total ignorance of the circumstances to which he had referred. In the case of Mr. Walsh there was this little previous circumstance (omitted by the hon. gentleman,) that Mr. Walsh had been indicted at the old Bailey, and was convicted by a jury; but the sentence was remitted on a technical ground, it being matter of doubt whether Exchequer bills were or were not articles the embezzlement of which was felony under the then existing law.
 Mr. Williams Wynn : How could the House entertain a petition which asked it to inquire into allegations affecting the honour of a Member? If the House were to admit this principle, the whole of its time might be taken up in such investigations, especially if everything which any petitioner thought likely to affect the honour of a Member were to be inquired into. It appeared to him that this was not a matter in which the House had jurisdiction, and therefore he was averse to proceeding further with it.
 Mr. Clay  was convinced, that a large majority of the Members had been much surprised, and that a large majority of persons out of doors would be much more surprised at the explanations with which the hon. Member for Yorkshire had accompanied his Motion. He (Mr. Clay) had supposed, when the notice of the Motion was given, that it related to some particular protection to be given to agriculture; and he was greatly surprised, therefore, to find that the proposition was to make an alteration in the currency, which, if productive of good at all, might be productive of it to the whole community; but he was utterly at a loss to conceive how it could be exclusively productive of good to agriculture. He would not follow the hon. Member into his details respecting agricultural distress; but would confine himself to the question, how the mode proposed would tend to the alleviation of that distress; and even on that point he had been anticipated by the admirable speech of the right hon. President of the Board of Trade. There were one or two small matters left, however, to which he would advert. He must say, that after listening most attentively to the speech of the hon. Member for Yorkshire, he had been unable to discover the precise nature of its bearing, or how the measure proposed could have a beneficial effect on agriculture. If the hon. Member proposed merely to return to the old English silver standard, and to coin the pound of standard silver into 60 s., d. 308 d. s. s. d. s. d.: d. d. d., d. d. d. s. s. 309 d. d. l. s. d. l., s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. l. ., l. l. l. s. l. s., l., 310
 Lord Howick  concurred with the right hon. Baronet, that if the House allowed this proceeding to go a single step further, it would be establishing an extremely bad and dangerous precedent. The hon. Member for Hastings had stated, that the origin of this proceeding arose from a pledge given by the hon. Member for St. Andrew's to resign his seat under certain circumstances, but he trusted that the House would never recognize such a principle. He agreed with the hon. Member for Weymouth, that the hon. Gentleman might naturally desire to discuss the question, but it ought also to be remembered that no charge had been made against the hon. Member in that place. Attacks were made on him in the newspapers, but, as the right hon. Baronet said, the hon. Gentleman could defend
 226
 Mr. Williams  said, he had long considered it necessary to adopt the Ballot at elections. He would briefly allude to some arguments advanced by an hon. Member in the course of the debate. First, then, as to the alleged expenditure of twenty-eight millions in America by the Bank, for the purpose of bribing the electors to oppose the return of General Jackson; the fact was, the money was spent to bribe the press to influence public opinion in their own favour, and notwithstanding the power
 412
 Mr. Charles Russell  said, he felt it to be his duty to resist the proposition of the hon. Member for the City of London for further extensive changes in the mode of constituting the House of Commons, while they were as yet only in the third Session of that Parliament which was assembled together under the denomination, and if the proposition of the hon. Member deserved any favour in that House, he might say the somewhat taunting denomination
 413 414 415 an scrutin ou á haute voix; au scrutin secret; 416 417 418 419 principium justissimœ libertatis;" De Amicitiâ and de Legibus," Neque lator quisquam est inventus neque auctor unquam bonus." vivâ voce, nota optimatibus. 420 421 422
 Mr. Milnes Gaskell  said, that he should have been perfectly content to leave this Question in the hands of the hon. Member for Reading (Mr. Russell) and of the noble Lord (Lord Howick) if he had not felt it to be one upon which every man that was possessed of honourable feelings was fully competent both to form and express an opinion, inasmuch as, notwithstanding all that had fallen from the hon. Gentleman opposite, the Member for London (Mr. Grote), notwithstanding all the ingenuity and ability which had been shown by his hon. Friend, the Member for Liskeard (Mr. C. Buller,) he could not remove from his mind the impression under which he had entered the House, and under which he was prepared to vote against the Motion of the hon. Gentleman, that there was something in the very act of voting by ballot, which was inconsistent with the habits of manliness and fair-dealing which had hitherto characterised the people of this country. Now,
 441 442 443 s. 444 445
 Lord Stanley  said, he would not trouble
 453 454 * 455 456 No, no, no!" 457 458 "No, no." 459
 Mr. O'Connell,  said, that he intended to detain the House only for a few minutes. He begged to protest against several things that he had lately heard. In the first place, he would protest against the assertion that there was any pledge of honour given on this subject by the Government which carried the Reform Bill, or by the individuals who voted for that Bill, that would now exclude them from Voting in favour of the Ballot. There was no pledge given by them that the Question of the Ballot should not be introduced. The noble Lord (Lord Stanley) had quoted a speech delivered by Lord Althorp, but that speech was made after the passing of the Reform Bill, and not whilst it was under discussion or before it. The noble Lord (Lord Althorp) had given no pledge that the ballot should not be introduced. On the contrary, it was understood that measures for shortening the duration of Parliament and for the Ballot should be Introduced, if found necessary. It was for that that the Radical Reformers voted for the Reform Bill. They intended to give
 462 à propos 463
 Lord John Russell  had already stated to the House that if the Motion came before them as a substantive Motion he should give it a decided negative. The noble Lord, the Member for Lancashire, and the right hon. Baronet opposite, seemed to wish that the Question should be met by a direct negative rather than the previous
 470
 Lord John Russell  promised the House that he would not imitate the example of the hon. Member for Knaresborough (Mr. Richards), who, in his unconsciousness that the subject was to be brought under the notice of the House that night, had resorted to America and France for topics of discussion, the noble Lord then proceeded to the following effect:—I shall not enter, Sir, into all those subjects to which the hon. Gentleman has adverted; but what I shall feel it my duty to address to the House I shall address as directly as possible to the question now before it, and I will in the first place notice what my hon. Friend the Member for Liskeard (Mr. Buller) stated in the commencement of his very able and argumentative speech—namely, that he did not conceive himself bound, in voting for the Reform Bill, o refrain from voting at any subsequent period in favour of the adoption of Vote by Ballot. Sir, I have only to say upon that subject, that in bringing forward the Question of Reform, I stated to the House that I considered the Questions of Vote by Ballot and the duration of Parliaments should be entirely distinct and separate subjects, upon which either those who brought forward the Reform Bill, or those who gave that measure their support, must subsequently take such a line of conduct, as upon consideration, might seem to them the best and the most proper to be pursued. But I added, with reference to the Vote by Ballot, that I hoped Parliament would long pause be-
 448 449 450 451 452
 Mr. Charles Buller  began by adverting to the argument which, by an hon. Member on the other side, had been founded upon the assumption that the Reform Act constituted a final and conclusive measure, that the Government proposing that measure, and the Members of the Legislature by whose votes it had been carried, were bound irrevocably to consider it as a complete and perfect decision, which was never afterwards to be disturbed. Against being
 430 431 432 433 l. 434 Cheers. 435 436 437 438 439 Laughter 440
 Mr. E. L. Charlton  complained that the hon. Baronet and the hon. and learned Gentleman had entirely mistaken the purport of the observations made by the noble Lord, the Member for Lancashire. The noble Lord showed that the Ballot had been tried in America, and had failed. [ The cries of "Divide" completely drowned the remaining observations of the hon. Member. After claiming a hearing, and attempting to pursue his argument, the hon. Member addressed some remarks to Mr. Hume who was seated just below the hon. Member.
 Mr. Charlton : Sir, I beg your pardon. I heard the hon. Gentleman below me contradictwhat I said—[An  Hon. Member: "Order" and laughter with much confusion
 Mr. Charlton  renewed his attempt to gain a hearing. He said it was rather hard that he should be prevented from replying to the remarks of a preceding speaker. If he had seen any symptoms of reluctance to hear him in the body of the House—if those signs of impatience had proceeded from the respectable part of the; House, he would at once have desisted; and now, rather than continue such a scene of confusion, and cause the character of the House to be lowered, he should resume his seat.
 Mr. Strutt  observed, that he had received complaints of the evils produced by the present system from all classes of society, he therefore felt himself called upon to address a few observations to the House; this, however, appeared to be almost unnecessary, after the conclusive speech of his hon. Friend, the Member for London. Excellent, however, as this speech was, it appeared to him that it did not attract so much attention as its merits deserved; for if it had been strictly listened to by the hon. Member for Southampton, he would have found an answer in it to any objection that he had urged to the Ballot in the course of his speech. The hon. Gentleman seemed mainly to rely on the objection that the franchise was a trust, and if the Ballot was granted, the electors would cease to be responsible to the non-electors. But the question was, whether the electors should be rendered thus responsible, and whether any advantage would arise from such responsibility? It was clear that the check by means of this species of responsibility, would be seldom operative, and only in periods of great excitement. He did not believe that the electors would in this country ever form a species of oligarchy, and exercise their franchise at the expense of all others. This however, was an argument, if worth anything, in favour of the Ballot. The argument for the Ballot was not that the electors were responsible to the non-electors, but that it would protect the electors from the influence of other classes of persons having interests different from those of both non-electors and electors. The secret voting protected the electors against tyrannical landlords and tyrannical masters, and that was the real answer to the argument which was so often used, and which had been so strongly urged by the hon. Member. He contended that the object was not attained by open voting. The hon. Gentleman had also said that the system of Ballot could not be adopted without being detrimental to the security of property. Now the only reason that he could imagine for such a conclusion was, the assumption that the possessor of 10,000 l. l. 410 411
 Mr. Grote : I said the Ballot would produce two separate effects,—it would pluck up intimidation by the roots, and greatly embarrass and restrain the practice of bribery.
 Mr. Grote  then rose and said—"In accordance with the prayer of these and other Petitions, I rise to lay before you the Motion of which I have given notice respecting the mode of taking votes at the election of Members of Parliament. I mean to propose a Resolution to the effect that votes shall henceforward be taken by way of Secret Ballot, and I shall set forth the reasons which induce me to make this proposition as briefly and as intelligibly as I can. It may be in the recollection of the House that I made a similar Motion in the last Parliament, during the Session of 1833, and as my speech was afterwards published, the arguments which I employed on that occasion are on record and before the world. It will be difficult for me to avoid treading over again the same ground and repeating the same sentiments, but I shall do my best to conquer this impediment without abandoning those solid and unalterable arguments on which the Question must finally be determined. It was my intention to have brought this Motion forward at an earlier period, and with this view I gave notice on the first day of the present Session of a Motion for the 2nd of April. Before that day arrived the hon. Baronet, the Member for Devonport, moved for the
 370 371 372 373 374 375 376 377 378 Morning Chronicle 379 mutum ac turpe pecus, injusto sub fasce" 380 381 382 383 384 385 386 387 388 389 390 pars domus non pars reipublicœ 391 392 393 Vindex tacita libertatis. arcanum imperii 394 395
 Mr. Grote  rose to say a few words in reply: at that late hour he would not detain the House long, particularly as the objections of the right hon. Baronet admitted, he thought of a very simple and easy answer. It was the undue influence, and not the proper influence, which would be prevented by the Ballot. Now every one had admitted, to a certain degree, that English landlords had improperly interfered with the freedom of election, and yet the noble Lord (Russell) told them, it was to the forbearance of those very landlords to whom the tenants were to look for protection in voting in, future. If they had no better protection than that, God help them for the future! He thought there were no other means, at least none had been started by hon. Gentlemen who opposed the Motion of protecting the voters, in the absence of the Ballot, in the exercise of their franchise, freely and independently. The Legislature was bound to give them protection during the consideration of that Question, and
 471
 The Speaker  said, that before this proceeded further it would be for hon. Members to reflect upon the serious interruption which such disorderly scenes occasioned, and especially at that hour, to the despatch of business.
 Mr. Barlow Hoy  was ready to admit, that in moving for the adoption of the Ballot, the hon. Gentleman had done so from the purest and most conscientious motives, and that he sincerely believed it would be the means of doing away with bribery, corruption, and intimidation in the return of Members to that House; in
 406 l. l. 407 l. l. l. l. 408
 Mr. Barlow Hoy  rose to explain. In reference to some expressions which had fallen from an hon. Member respecting the power which the Government would acquire by the Ballot, he begged to state that so long as individuals could return thirty or forty Members to that House, and as long as the 10 l.
 Dr. Bowring  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, had stated, that if satisfactory evidence could be given to him that secret voting could be made effectual, he would give his support to the Motion before the House, On that ground he hoped the support of the hon. Gentleman would be no longer withheld; for he could tell the hon. Gentleman, that he had had the privilege of seeing the experiment successfully made in many countries, and he had no doubt, that if once the power was given of introducing it fairly into this country, it would prove to be possessed of all the advantages which its advocates were disposed to attribute to it. He had seen the ballot applied in some countries where the suffrage was narrow, and it had completely answered its end there. He had also seen it applied to other countries where the suffrage was almost universal, and with equal success; and he had never heard it objected in those countries that it could not be made effectual, or that the votes could, after all, be denounced or discovered. He believed, on the contrary, wherever the experiment had been made, it had been found completely efficient; and sure he was, that there was no individual who had witnessed the misery caused in this country by the system of open voting—no individual who had seen the despotic influence and oppression which were exercised on the one hand, and the corruption and profligacy which were brought into action on the other—who would not earnestly desire to find some security for the honest voter in the conscientious discharge of that duty which he owed to himself, to his country, and mankind. What was the system of open
 404 405
 Mr. Richards  congratulated the hon. Member who had sat down on the eloquence of his observations, and stated that he had never heard such a promising speech from so young a Member during his experience of that House. He should explain briefly why he meant to give his vote against, instead of for, the Motion of the hon. Member for London. At the election for Knaresborough, he was himself a severe sufferer from the want of the protection which the Ballot would afford against intimidation and persecution of all kinds. Letters had been sent from London to the Whig nobility and gentry in the neighbourhood to vote and influence the votes of their tradespeople and dependants in favour of the Whig candidate and against him. Their servants were in consequence sent out in all directions, and many electors of the town were from that reason prevented from giving him their votes. The tradesmen were especially obnoxious to that influence. All which he could have verified upon oath, if necessary.—Smarting under the effects of this course of conduct on the part of his opponents, he confessed that, in the moment of soreness and irritation he had leaned to the opinion that a protection was necessary; and he had therefore promised his friends to give the subject his best consideration. He had, however given them no promise; because, as he then alleged, he was afraid he might commit him self rashly, while his better judgment was under the influence of a natural feeling of resentment. So much he felt bound to say in explanation of the vote he was about to give upon this question. He should next offer his reasons for that vote. It was quite impossible not to give the utmost credit for good, intentions to his hon.
 446 poissardes 447
 Mr. Roebuck : The hon. Member has applied language to the hon. Member for Middlesex such as I never before heard made use of in this House. It is quite unpardonable.
 Mr. Pease  took the opportunity of saying, that not wishing to hold his seat in the House, in opposition to the opinions of the majority of his constituents, he had been most anxious to ascertain under what circumstances the petition presented the other night, by the hon. Member from Durham, in which some Members of that House were charged with perjury, and a majority of it with high treason, had been got up. With a view, therefore, of ascertaining the real feelings of his constituents on the subject, he had written to them, and had received an answer which he would now read. The answer stated that the petition had been got up in a "a very sly way," principally by the clergy; that it had been carried from house to house for signatures, and that half of those who put their names to it, were now ready to subscribe a counter petition. He (Mr. Pease) had produced this letter in order to exonerate himself, as he was convinced that a majority of the electors were anxious for the appropriation clause, on
 369
 Mr. Gisborne  begged to confirm the statement of the noble Lord, that his Amendment was proposed without any concert with either the noble Lord or any other Member of his Majesty's Government. At present he was unfavourable to the Question of the Ballot, and certainly unless he could be convinced that secret voting was more advantageous than open voting, he must give the resistance of his vote to the Motion of the hon. Member for the city of London. If, however, he should be called upon to vote aye or no upon the Motion as brought forward by the hon. Member for London he must say that he should support that Motion. As the noble Lord seemed to wish him to withdraw his Amendment, all he could say was, that he was perfectly ready to adopt that course.
 Mr. Gisborne  had listened to the speech of his hon. Friend, the Member for the City of London, with the greatest attention, and, he would say, with the utmost
 401 402 403
 Sir Francis Burdett  said, that after the eloquent speech of the noble Lord who had last spoken, he would not occupy the attention of the House for one moment were it not for the few things that fell from the noble Lord respecting following up, on this Question, a point of honour. For his own part he knew that his feelings had never varied on this Question. He did not concur in the anticipations of good or evil that hon. Members on both sides of the House, interested in the Question, expected from it. His opinion was, that the Ballot would cause none of the dangers those persons who opposed it said it would. At the same time that he made this avowal he did not see that it
 460 461
 Mr. Ward  was anxious not to give a silent vote on the present occasion. Hitherto he had voted against the introduction of the Vote by Ballot into the electoral system, not because he disapproved of it, but in consequence of his mind not having been made up on the subject. The arguments against that
 423 424 l. espionnage 425
 Sir Robert Peel : I shall detain the House but a very short time, it not being my wish to trespass on what I think is the very natural impatience of hon. Members. After the utter exhaustion of argument, I think I should be the last person to protract the discussion by any attempt to go over the same beaten course. I have recently heard the very able speech made on the principle of this measure, by the noble Lord, the Member for Devonshire—the noble Lord, the MemberforStroud,—which to my mind carried complete conviction. To
 465 466 467 Grote: 468 Grote: s. 469
 Sir William Molesworth  rose, he said with great pleasure, to second the Motion If there was one fact more clearly established than another by the unanimous testimony of men of all parties, it was this—that during the late election the grosses intimidation had prevailed. Each defeated candidate invariably ascribed the loss of his election to intimidation: complaints of intimidation were to be found in every election petition. There was the undoubted most explicit, and most valuable testimony of the noble Lord at the head of the Home Department, that he had lost his election for South Devon solely through the continued and systematic intimidation of the Tory landlords and parsons. Intimidation had, within the last few weeks, been resolutely carried on in Yorkshire, Staffordshire, and Inverness-shire. Meanwhile, the people were the sufferers; and to protect them in the exercise of the electoral franchise which had been bestowed upon them—not to give the predominance to any particular party—was the motive which induced him to support the Motion of his hon. Friend and Member for London. He did not care whether the Ballot had an aristocratic or a democratic tendency; all he contended was, that the Ballot was by far the best, the only means, of ensuring freedom of election; and all who acknowledged the theory of a representative Government, must necessarily acknowledge that freedom of election was all important. According to that theory, the electoral body should be a body so numerous, that their interest must necessarily coincide with the interest of the whole community. The electoral body ought, likewise, to be a body so selected, as to be better acquainted with what those interests are, than any other body of men. If these positions were denied with regard to our present electoral system, the system was faulty, and ought to be altered. If they were affirmed, the expression of the real wishes of the electors was the best expression of the real interests of the community. In order to secure those interests—in order to insure the best Government—freedom of election was absolutely requisite. Some hon. Gentlemen seemed to think that intimidation could be prevented by penal
 396 397 398 399 400
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  felt called upon to make one remark. It was asserted that the petition had been got up through the instrumentality of the clergy, and he did not pretend to deny it; but he was bound to add, that he had been given distinctly to understand, that not a single individual who affixed his name to the petition, was ignorant of the nature of it. It was also fit for him to observe, that as far as his information extended, there was a strong feeling regarding the appropriation clause throughout the county of Durham. He had been furnished with ten other petitions against it from the Northern Division of Durham, but he should not present them until he saw one or other of the hon. Members for that part of the county in his place. He was not desirous of proceeding in any underhand way, and courted the observation of any party.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  presented a Petition from Durham in favour of the Irish Church.
 Viscount Howick  agreed in thinking it unnecessary to notice most of the arguments, which had been used, and in stating the reasons which induced him to oppose the Motion of the hon. Member for the city of London, he should not think it necessary to dwell on the practice of the Ballot being un-English, and of its being immoral; still less should he speak of the legitimate influence, as it was called, of property. He was not one of those who under the name of legitimate influence of property wished to maintain that which he thought a degrading and oppressive tyranny on the electors of the country. With respect to the object said to be aimed at, there could be no possible dispute. What they all wanted was the fairest, the freest, and the most impartial system of election which all things considered, it was in their power to attain. That was so plain that he thought no words were required to prove it though the hon. Member for the city of London had wasted on it many refined and metaphysical arguments. But though the hon. Member had laboured that part of his case much, it was not so with the means of carrying the proposition into effect. In truth, he had been greatly disappointed in the means by which the hon. Member for the city of London proposed to carry into effect the system of secret voting, so as to accomplish the important ends he had in view. The hon. Member seemed altogether to have passed over what formed the whole difficulty of the Question. The hon. Member merely brought forward his resolution in favour of the Ballot, without stating one word as to the machinery by which that system of voting was to be carried into execution; still less had he said one word as to the manner in which the secret voting which he recommended was to prevent fraud and the admission of improper voters. He had sat on many Election Committees,
 426 427 espionage 428
 Viscount Howick  did not think the Ballot would throw great embarrassment in the way of those who wished to corrupt the electors. So far, indeed, from its having that effect it would tend in a great measure to secure impunity to those who were guilty of bribery. The hon. Member said, that nobody would think of purchasing a vote which he did not know would be given in his favour. But that was not the manner in which bribery to a large extent was carried on. When bribery was to be practised on an extensive scale, it was almost invariably carried on in this manner:—A voter was told, provided such a candidate was returned, he should receive a present fourteen days after the meeting of Parliament, so as to run no risk of a petition being presented: and accordingly a certain number of blank covers with 10 l. l. 429
 Sir George Strickland  observed, that the most important point of the petition was, that for tithe of the value of 2 s. l.
 Sir John Y. Buller  bore strong testimony to the benevolent character of the reverend gentleman. He was sure, he said, that nothing but the most vexatious conduct on the part of the petitioner would have driven Mr. Port to the proceedings he had adopted. This man actually sent Mr. Port, when offering him his tithe in kind, one cabbage in one day, for which the tithe-man had to come two miles. Vexatious proceedings of this character justified the clergyman in making an example of one man for the peace and quiet of the parish, and he did not bring him into the Ecclesiastical Court until he had first brought him before the magistrates, but without any good effect.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  believed there was no Question before the House to warrant the continuance of the
 497 498
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the House had heard a variety of conflicting statements, all exhibiting more or less discrepancy of detail. In his opinion, however, the man who distinctly said that he heard such and such words used, was a much more competent witness upon the subject than those who merely said that they did not hear them, and moreover, that they did not hear very distinctly what had been said on either side. It was quite clear that under such circumstances as these a man could not be very certain as to the words alleged not to have been said. Now the hon. Member for Bath had positively declared that he had heard distinctly the obnoxious words, "You are an impertinent fellow," used by the hon. Member for Ludlow.—The hon. Member for Finsbury heard the expression, "We want no Republicans" from the same hon. Member. The hon. Member for Somersetshire said, that he thought he recollected hearing the words "Impertinent fellow" bandying about between the hon. Members for Middlesex and Ludlow. And let it too be remembered that the hon. Member for Bath was the closest of all to the hon. Member for Middlesex; and in his account of the conversation at the time, he attributed the expression to the hon. Member for Ludlow. The expression, too, was used in a dropped tone of voice, as if it were to convey an insult to the individual to whom it was addressed, and yet be concealed from every one else. This would easily account for the fact why so many other Members had not heard it. It was clear that the hon. Member for Ludlow had no recollection of having used the expression; he distinctly and positively denied it. He believed that, under those circumstances, that was the strongest retraction which could be made. Those acquainted with such matters were aware that the best apology that could be made for words said to be uttered, was to deny having uttered them. The hon. Member for Ludlow had stated this. He had denied having used the words. If, then, he had
 499
 Colonel Evans  said, that he quite concurred in the recommendation of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, and of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth. He certainly could not concur, however, in the opinion expressed by the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), that on mere technical grounds the House should get rid of the discussion of such a Question. As the case stood the disavowal on the part of the hon. Member for Ludlow of the words, "You are an impertinent fellow," had certainly done away with all offence that
 501
 Mr. O'Connell : then, of course, the hon. Member for Ludlow can have no objection to withdraw his letter. [ Calls for Mr. Charlton, who was observed to be talking earnestly with an hon. Member near him, which caused a slight pause to ensue. Mr. O'Connell then continued
 Mr. Curteis  rose to second the Amendment of his hon. Friend, the Member for St. Alban's. It was rather hard that Gentlemen who came from the northern division of the country (where the Sabbath was kept much stricter than it was in the southern) should seek to enforce their mode of observing it on the people of England. He, therefore, was convinced that he was conscientiously serving the best interests of the country, by opposing that, and all future measures of the kind, and he cordially seconded the Motion of his hon. Friend.
 Mr. Goulburn  could not agree in considering that the desecration of the Sabbath should be a privilege, or that the man should consider himself ill-used who was prevented from profaning it. All that the hon. Gentleman asked of the House now was, to fulfil what he (Mr. Goulburn) understood was its intention on a former occasion, to allow him to bring in a Bill not obnoxious in principle, and which would be open to the suggestions of hon. Members, as to matters of detail.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, it was no disparagement to the hon. and gallant Member to be ignorant of law, but lest his statements might have made an impression on the House, he begged to put the matter right. He admitted that if the gallant Member was right in point of law, the Act then under discussion ought not to pass. As the law at present stood, however, nobody suffered but the innocent children, and them alone; and he would ask, was that a state of things to continue? The guilty clergyman, the guilty father, escaped; but the law at present inflicted its direst penalties on the innocent children. The hon. and gallant Officer was totally ignorant of the law of marriage in Ireland; he had said; that a marriage
 520
 Mr. O'Connell  admitted, of course, that the marriage-maker, the clergyman, was liable to punishment, except he had no benefice; but then the marriage itself was perfectly valid, and that was a resource to the very worst class of clergymen in Ireland. As soon as they were deprived for misconduct, they set up as marriage-makers. They might marry whom they pleased, and where they pleased; and the Bishop had the power certainly to degrade him, but the marriage notwithstanding was a legal marriage. A man of the name of Wood, a couple-beggar, had resided for nearly thirty years in the Haymarket, and was in the constant habit of marrying persons for half-a-crown. Those marriages in all cases in Ireland were decided to be legal; and in one instance, in the case of a prosecution for bigamy, in a family with which his (Mr. O'Connell's son) was connected, Wood's book, after his death, was admitted by the Court as evidence. But when Wood died, did his trade die with him? No such thing. Another degraded Protestant clergyman took it up, and at the present moment was following his vocation. There was one man who had been actually married by him four times, at 1 s. d. 521
 Dr. Lushington  did not see why because the Attorney-General was not in his place, they should not go on then without him. He had a great respect for that hon. and learned Gentleman and believed that if he were in his place he would be among the best supporters of the Bill, Let them not wait then, however, for that learned Gentleman to remove a great practical grievance from the Marriage-law of Ireland. With respect to the measure, it proposed to repeal a statute, the effect of which was to render null and void all marriages celebrated by Popish priests between Protestants and Catholics. Now let the House look at the inconveniences arising from the present state of the law, and compare them with the expected consequences pointed at by the gallant Colonel, and the right hon. Gentleman. Was there one thing in the whole world more difficult to be ascertained before death, much more, subsequently, than the religious belief and profession of any particular party? Who was to make the inquiry? Who was to pay the penalty? Put a case: an unfortunate woman, ignorant of the state of the law, relying upon the assertions and the promises of him who led her to the celebration of the marriage, who told her that she had but to answer "Yes," to the questions proposed to her, and that her marriage would be good. Relying upon the faith and assertions of him in whom she would of all others naturally place the most unlimited confidence, the marriage took place: what happened? First he would suppose an investigation took place; and her religion was discovered to have been Protestant. Upon whom fell the penalty? not upon the priest; not upon the seducer;—no, but upon the unfortunate woman, and her children! Was that justice? Was that equality? Was that the law of Ireland? Or again: the marriage existed for years: a question arose as to the title of an estate: an inquiry took place as to whether the parties were both Roman Catholics at the time of the marriage: the witnesses were dead: the fact could not be proved; the children were declared illegitimate;
 523 "per verba de prœsenti!"
 Mr. Elphin-stone  moved the second reading the Bill, for limiting the duration of the Poll at elections which contained only two enacting clauses; viz.; on the limiting the poll at elections to one day in counties; and the second for effecting the same purpose in boroughs. The experience of the general elections since 1832, sufficiently proved that all the freeholders in the most extensive counties could be polled in one day, inasmuch as no less than 1,000 voters had been taken in that time atone, booth, whilst the average number which it would be necessary to take would only be 600. At the general election in 1832, three-fourths of the electors polled in one day. Taking ten of the largest counties, he found that out of 44,561, persons who voted, 37,075 voted on the first day. The results of the boroughs, in the elections was still more favourable to his view, and he therefore could have no doubt that it was feasible to take all the polls in one day. The chief object of his Bill was to defeat the intentions and wishes of those who, by holding their votes till the second day, expected to obtain a bribe after the struggle had commenced.
 The Lord-Advocate  concurred in the propriety of extending the provisions of this bill to Scotland, but thought that it would be necessary in that case to provide some remedy to prevent the tendering of unnecessary oaths for the mere purpose of creating delay. He thought that the best mode of preventing such a trick would be to introduce into the bill a clause providing that if at 4 o'clock, when the poll now closed, there were any electors unpolled who wished to poll, they should give in their names immediately to the returning officer, and that the poll should be kept open the next day till they were all polled.
 Mr. O'Brien  wished to have the provisions of the Bill extended to Ireland.
 Mr. O'Connell  supported the Motion, and hoped that the good example it would set for England would be extended to Ireland.
 Mr. William Duncombe  also thought that the Bill might be embodied in one of those before, or about to be before, the House, especially in that Bill for the better registration of voters. He had great doubts as to the policy of limiting the poll to one day only, particularly in counties. It was extremely questionable whether all the electors could be brought up to the poll in one day in wide and populous districts, like the one he had the honour to represent. Under these circumstances it would be advantageous, in large districts, to allow the poll to remain open for the same period as at present.
 Colonel Perceval : I stated, that if the clergyman celebrated the marriage improperly, he was liable to be deprived,  ipso facto,
 Colonel Perceval  said, he had listened with attention on a former occasion to the speech in which the hon. and learned Gentleman had introduced this Measure, and from full consideration of the topics urged
 514 toto cœlo 515 516 Lynch: 517 l. 518 l. s., 519
 Mr. Lynch  moved the second reading of the Roman Catholic Marriages Bill; and began by stating, that the object of this Bill was, to repeal so much of an Act of the 19th year of King George 2nd "as makes void all marriages celebrated by any Popish priest between Protestant and Papist," and thereby to remove from the Statute-book a severe and penal Act, the remnant of that code which so long disgraced the laws of this country, an Act which pressed heavily upon the conscience of parties, inflicted great injury upon innocent individuals, and operated most mischievously upon the public interest. Upon a former occasion he stated, that the law of marriage in Ireland at this day is the same as in Scotland, the same as the law of marriage in England before the Marriage Act. Some hon. Members doubted the accuracy of this statement, it was however confirmed by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, upon the introduction of his Dissenters' Marriage Bill, and by every other hon. Member who took part in that debate. The words  de prœsenti, 510 ipso facto 511 512 513
 Mr. O'Dwyer  remarked, that the delay in passing these and other measures of reform was, in fact, attributable to the unfortunate change of Government in November last. Had the clergyman no other means of recovering his tithe in this instance except by expensive and oppressive proceedings in one of the superior courts? The hon. Member talked of there being Members in that House influenced by party spirit against the clergymen of the Established Church. [Mr.  Trevor
 Major Cumming Bruce  sat in the neighbourhood of the hon. Member for Ludlow last night, and his impression of what passed was substantially the same as that of the hon. Member who had just spoken. Very great noise prevailed in the House whilst the hon. Member for Ludlow was speaking, and he appeared to labour under considerable irritation in consequence. Some conversation, carried on in rather a louder tone than was usually adopted by gentlemen when sitting near a Member who was speaking, passed between the hon. Members for Middlesex and Bath. The hon. Member for Ludlow appeared to consider that the conversation had reference to him, and he addressed the hon. Member for Middlesex, as far as he could recollect, in these words—"Hold your tongue, Sir; I will not be interrupted." Then that which had been stated by the hon. Member for Knaresborough followed. According to the best of his recollection,
 495 your
 Colonel Sibthorp  opposed the Bill, because it prohibited the Sabbath enjoyments of the poor, and protected those of the rich.
 Colonel Sibthorp  opposed the Bill. Ill health, bad weather, and many other circumstances which it would be tedious to enumerate, might prevent an elector from voting on the first day of the poll, and therefore, in his opinion a second day ought to be allowed.
 Mr. Lechmere Charlton  rose on this occasion, as the House might easily suppose, under feelings of considerable apprehension, occasioned not through fear of the course taken by the hon. Member for Middlesex, but through a fear lest, suddenly called on, as he now was, and without an opportunity of consulting his
 491 Order. 492
 Mr. Charlton  said, he rose under very peculiar circumstances. He was willing to bow to the opinion of the House, and accept the explanation of the hon. Member for Middlesex, in full satisfaction of the offence which had been given. The hon. Member for Middlesex said that he had used the words complained of when labouring under a wrong impression, and that he wished he had not used them. He (Mr. Charlton) could only say that he wished the hon. Member for Middlesex had said as much last night when applied to on the subject. If he had said so, he (Mr. Charlton) would not have written the letter which he had done. As, however, the hon. Member for Middlesex had deferred this explanation till now, the utmost he could say was, that he felt sorry his letter had ever been written.
 Mr. Charlton  said, that he concurred in what had fallen from the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster, and he had no hesitation in declaring most solemnly that he meant nothing offensive to the hon. Member for Middlesex in saying, "Hold your tongue." This he declared most solemnly, as a gentleman and a man of honour. Now, with respect to the word "republican," or "republicanism," with regard to which much diversity of opinion appeared to be entertained by hon. Members who heard him, and which the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth said, that, he had not heard used, perhaps he (Mr. Charlton) could explain how the mistake and this diversity of opinion had arisen. The fact was, the words, "We want no Republicans here;" or, "We don't want any Republicanism here," he conceiving that Republicanism was the necessary concomitant of the Ballot, formed part of his speech to the House, and were not at all addressed to the hon. Member for Middlesex. That was the reason, perhaps, why the words were recollected by some of the hon. Members who heard the conversation, and not by others.
 Mr. Baines  said, that in the West Riding of Yorkshire there were 7,000 voters. On a late occasion the total number polled was 16,000, of whom 13,000 were polled in one day. He was assured that double that number could with perfect convenience have polled in the same time. It would be a great benefit to the country to have the elections take place in one day, for, generally speaking, corruption took place on the night between the two days of polling.
 Mr. Baines  said, he did not approve of the Bill as it then stood, but he should vote for its re-committal.
 Mr. Barnard  must say, for one Member of that House, that he was not influenced by party spirit against the established clergy. He was most willing to do them justice where they deserved it.
 Mr. Edward Buller  also bore testimony to the general kind and benevolent disposition of the reverend gentleman, and expressed his opinion, that, if any disputes had arisen between him and his parishioners, they were attributable to the state of the law.
 Mr. Cayley  also concurred in the opinion that the second day afforded a decided advantage to the candidate who had the longest purse, and, therefore, he should give this Bill his support.
 Mr. Strutt  said, that whilst the division was being taken last night, he inquired of the hon. Member for Bath what had taken place between the hon. Members for Middlesex and Ludlow, and the hon. Member for Bath then gave him the same account he had just now given of the words used by the hon. Member for Ludlow. The hon. Member for Bath told him that the hon. Member for Ludlow said "You are an impertinent fellow; we want no republicanism here."
 Mr. Shaw  only wished to observe that tithe was wholly paid by the landlords, and that 19–20ths of the land in Ireland was the property of Protestants.
 Mr. Shaw  objected to the Bill, while he was free to admit the anomalous and imperfect state of the whole Marriage-law in Ireland, and as ready as any hon. Member to support an enlarged and general measure for its revision and improvement. The only effect, however, of the Bill then proposed would be, to remove the single obstacle to the celebration of clandestine marriages by Roman Catholic priests—and although as was agreed on the other side, such marriages might be performed without the clergy, yet the disinclination of the people to be married by any other than a regular clergyman operated as a moral check in that respect. It was very remarkable that though within the last two years the subject had been legislated upon by the present Attorney and the late Solicitor General of Ireland, they both had purposely and advisedly omitted the enactment which it was by that Bill sought to introduce, rendering such marriages valid, and by that means repealing the 19th George 2nd, which was passed expressly to annul marriages, celebrated by Roman Catholic priests, between Protestants and Roman Catholics, notwithstanding the severe penalties which at that time were in force against Roman Catholic priests for celebrating them. He had not objected to the Bill of the present Attorney General (Mr. Perrin), abolishing those penalties, because he considered them extreme, and out of proportion to the offence;
 522
 Mr. Aglionby  concurred in the observations of the learned Attorney-General and thought that if more general measures
 526
 Mr. Warburton  thought that it would be most desirable to secure the passing of this Bill in the present session, as it was impossible to tell how soon they might be seat back to their constituents.
 Mr. Warburton  did not see why public houses, in which spirits were sold, should be allowed on the Sabbath, while beer-shops were not; nor why newspaper-shops should be allowed. He saw no necessity for legislating upon the subject, for there was no evidence that the country had retrograded in the observance of the Sabbath.
 The Speaker  said, now that the affair had terminated, he trusted, that he should be excused for saying a few words. In the first place, he was bound to declare that he thought the House would not have performed its duty if it had not brought the question to an amicable conclusion, as it fortunately had been. There was another point to which it was necessary for him to advert, He did not hear the
 503
 Dr. Bowring  approved of the principle of the Bill. It would be a great improvement of the law; and, wishing to see its provisions extended to Scotland, he should, when it got into Committee, move the omission of the Clause restricting its operation to England.
 Mr. Hardy  also supported the Motion. In his view of the subject the poll should proceed without interruption. Any objection taken to a voter might be made at the time when the vote was given, and heard afterwards, when the only question which could be raised would be as to the identity of the person to whom the objection was made.
 Dr. Nicholl  observed, that if the late Government had not been dissolved, a measure for the Commutation of Tithes, and the Bill alluded to for abolishing the jurisdiction of the Ecclesiastical Courts, would be now on their passage through Parliament. It did not come with a good grace from the other side of the House to regret the loss of measures which had been occasioned by the recent change of Government.
 Mr. Poulter  said, they were not included in the Statute of Charles.
 Mr. Poulter : From the commencement of the last Session this Bill has been most unfairly dealt with. It has been the invariable course of hon. Members to saddle it with objections on points wholly unconnected with it. I have not attempted to press on this House any particular or special views of my own. I have watched the cause of the failure of all those Bills which have been rejected by both Houses on this subject. I have endeavoured to ascertain the opinion which prevails in this House, as well as in every part of the country, and to embody these sentiments in a short, modified, and simple enactment; and have confined myself solely and exclusively to the subject of common Sunday trading, which in various places is extensively prevalent throughout the country; and I have a right to say, that the view I have taken meets the wishes of both the masters and journeymen, as well as the real interests of the lower classes of the people. The numerous petitions which have been presented on the subject within the last two years show that great anxiety prevails upon it; 2,000 have been presented since the commencement of the former Session, signed, I believe, by 200,000 petitioners; and this feeling has only partially subsided now, because it is generally believed that this very modified measure will be allowed to pass this House. It has been said that the law for the observance of the Sabbath is obsolete and extinct, which, in my opinion, is a very incorrect statement, because it is impossible to visit any part of this town on Sunday, without seeing decided symptoms of the operation of the Statute of Charles II. in conjunction with the good religious feeling of the community. I can perceive, in the partial opening of the confectioners' shops, the equitable operation of the third section of that Act; and I need only further mention to this House that there has been no Chief Justice
 505 s. l, l. 506
 Mr. Richards  expressed his deep regret that a system so odious and tyrannical, and so open to abuse, should be suffered any longer to exist. He regretted extremely that his Majesty's Ministers proposed to delay the Commutation of Tithes for another Session, perhaps  sine die, 483
 Mr. Richards  had not the honour of being acquainted personally with the hon. Member for Ludlow; he was induced to come forward on the present occasion from a feeling of respect both towards him and the House; and he was sorry to say, in the outset, that his impression of what passed was somewhat different from that stated by the hon. Member for Bath. He was attending to the speech of the hon. Member for Ludlow, when he remarked that something passed between the hon. Member for Middlesex and the hon. Member for Bath, which seemed to excite the hon. Member for Ludlow, who said, in his hearing, in a sharp and abrupt way, "Hold your tongue, Sir." The hon. Member for Middlesex instantly replied, "Hold  your
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that although he was very unwilling to take part in the discus-
 493
 Mr. Roebuck  asked if cook-shops and milk-shops, were included in the Bill?
 Mr. Wilson Patten  said, the petitioner had been heard to boast that he had good support in the back ground to sustain him in the law proceedings, and that he would put the clergyman to all the expense he could. This Mr. Harris had been always at the greatest pains to stir up ill feeling in the parish.
 Mr. Hume  rose to call the attention of the House to some proceedings which took place in the House at a very late hour in the course of the debate of last night. He did so
 486 487 "House of Commons, Tuesday Night. "Sir,—I heard you make use of the words 'impertinent fellow' when I was speaking. "I believe that you meant to apply those words to me, but, for fear of any mistake, I desire I may know immediately whether you did or not, "I am Sir, your humble servant,
 Mr. Hume  certainly should not have used the words which he had done if he had not, at the time, distinctly understood the hon. Member for Ludlow to have made use of offensive terms to himself. As the hon. Member for Ludlow had denied having made use of the supposed expressions, he had no hesitation in saying that the words he had used he had spoken in error, and under a wrong impression, and therefore he wished that he had not used them.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  concurred in much that had fallen from the learned civilian, and considered that it was most preposterous after the law had inflicted capital punishment to superadd a penalty of 500 l.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson , while he entirely differed from the petitioners, bore his testimony to the respectability of their character.
 Mr. Pease  thought that voters should be-allowed to vote where they resided, and not where their property was situate. He agreed that this Bill would be a great improvement.
 Mr. Sheil  was in favour of the measure. He was at a loss to ascertain how the gallant Member (Colonel Perceval) had obtained such a knowledge of canon law, but on consideration he supposed it was acquired during his recent connexion with the Ordnance Department.
 Mr. Crompton  said, it was owing to him that the petition had not been presented at an earlier period. It was sometime before Mr. Port's Bill of Costs was delivered to him; as he lived 100 miles from Ilam it was some time before he examined the circumstances of the case. An additional reason was, that there was a prospect that the tithes would have been commuted before this time. He now heard of the death of Mr. Port's tithing man for the first time. He must not omit to say, that, lamenting as he did, that differences should exist between a clergyman and his parishioners, he had called upon Mr. Port for the purpose of proposing that the tithes should be valued by an impartial person, and that a money payment should be made in lieu of tithe taken in kind. He had afterwards made the same offer through a professional Gentleman, whose name he would at anytime give, but Mr. Port thought fit to reject the offer. He did not know what where the insults of which Mr. Port complained, but he should be most happy for all the circumstances to be laid before a Committee of Gentlemen impartially chosen, who would say to which party blame attached. He made this proposal.
 Mr. Crompton  said, the Petition he now had to present related to a tithe-suit in the Spiritual Court at Litchfield. The petitioner, Mr. Thomas Harris, was a man of respectability, occupying a farm in the parish of Ham in Staffordshire, which farm was his (Mr. Crompton's) property. The rev. Bernard Port was rector of the same parish, and was entitled to the tithe of cabbages. In the year 1831, the petitioner planted one acre of land in a field in this farm with cabbages, the other part of the field was sown with grass seeds. The greatest part of these cabbages was tithed without producing any dispute. The cabbages were pulled at different times as the petitioner had occasion for them for the use of his cattle; the tithe was set out and was drawn on Mr. Port's account. One small part of the cabbages remained, and the dispute arose about the tithe of this last part. These cabbages were put by Harris's directions into ten equal heaps; each heap consisted of eight or nine cabbages, and notice was given to Mr. Port to send his man to tithe these heaps. Mr. Port's man came, but he refused to take the tithe, because he said the heaps were not equal. Harris then said Mr. Port's man might take any heap he chose. This did not please him, and he refused to
 479 s. d. d. s. d. s. d., l. s. d. 480 481
 Mr. Wakley  said, that without making any remark on the character or tendency of the conversation which took place last night, he felt bound injustice to all parties to state what he heard. He was sitting next to the hon. Member for Bath, and the hon. Member for Ludlow having made a remark with reference to something which he said had been proved by the noble Lord the Member for Lancashire, the hon. Member for Middlesex, in aloud whisper, said "There is no proof." The hon. Member for Ludlow then said, "Hold your tongue;" and the hon. Member for Middlesex, replied, "I shan't hold my tongue." The hon. Member for Ludlow immediately observed," Will you not? I will make you;" and then the hon. Member for Middlesex answered, "You are an an impudent, (or impertinent) fellow." The hon. Member for Ludlow also said something about republicanism which he did not comprehend.
 Mr. Wakley  said, the Bill left the poor man without any protection whatever, and prevented him from indulging in any innocent recreations and enjoyments. Even if the Bill were to pass, it would be wholly inoperative. It prohibited "every act of trading in open shop." Now, what did the hon. Member mean by the phrase "open shop?" a shop with the door open? [ "No"
 Mr. Blackstone  entirely agreed that it was desirable to have the poll taken in a single day, for a second day only tended to encourage bribery.
 Mr. Ewart  said, the practicability of the Bill was shown clearly on the evidence given by the town-clerk of the borough he represented, both before the Corporation Commissioners and the Committee of the House on the subject of election proceedings. The number of electors in Liverpool exceeded 11,000, and the officer to whose testimony he referred proved that the poll there could easily be taken
 525
 Mr. William S. O'Brien  differed from the view taken by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He thought that if an hon. Member said to another in the House "Hold your tongue," the House had a right to interfere, and express its opinion on the subject.
 Mr. William Roche  was not cognizant of his own knowledge, of what passed between the hon. Member for Ludlow and the hon. Member for Middlesex, but he rose to state that the hon. Member for Bath told him last night that the hon. Member for Middlesex had been called an impertinent fellow by the hon. Member for Ludlow.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  presented petitions from Tamlaght, Finlagan, and other places in Londonderry, and from Ballymore, Bally-yeaston, and other places in Antrim, praying for the total and immediate extinction of tithes and the  regium donum. 485 l. l. l. l.
 Sir Andrew Agnew  said, it was curious to see the difference of opinion which prevailed upon the subject; some saying the Bill did not go far enough, and others that it went too far. Of course everything that went to establish the former conclusion, was, of course, music to his ears. The hon. Member for St. Alban's (Mr. Ward) had wondered that he should propose so many different measures; the reason was, that he meant to go on, by little and little, till at last he had brought the House round to some conclusive measure; as he was convinced that if not the majority in that House, the majority of the people were with him.
 Sir Edward Codrington  said, that the matter was one which might have been very easily settled if they had begun with the beginning and not at the end, in discussing it. The fact was, the hon. Member for Ludlow complained of an offensive expression on the part of the hon. Member for Middlesex, and the hon. Member for Middlesex, it appeared, had made use of that offensive expression when labouring under the impression that the hon. Member for Ludlow had said something offensive to him. It was in consequence of that supposed offensive expression, On the part of the hon. Member for Ludlow, that the hon. Member for Middlesex said what he had said. If the hon. Member for Ludlow had not said what he was supposed to have said, the hon. Member for Middlesex would not have said what he
 502
 Captain Pechell  certainly agreed with the hon. Member that these cases were all of a piece. He (Captain Pechell) had at this moment a relative of his suffering in the Court of Exchequer; and the only difference between the two cases was, that his relative had been carried thither on account of a small demand for turnips, and the present was respecting cabbages. In that case tithe was actually claimed for turnips that had been hoed up for the use of the cattle. If they had been carried off the land for sale, the clergyman might have been justified in making the demand; but, as it was, he had no right to make it. His relative was put, at this moment, to considerable expense by a suit in the Court of Exchequer on the subject. These monstrous cases occurred every day, and some remedy should be adopted to put an end to such vexatious proceedings.
 Mr. H. Bulwer  opposed the Bill.
 Mr. Ward  was sorry to be obliged to oppose the hon. Member on a subject in which he had taken so much interest; but he was totally averse from that mode of Sunday legislation. The Bill now proposed, would only apply to one class, the Sunday traders; and he objected to such partial legislation. The other day the hon. Member for Wigton (Sir A. Agnew), proposed to place restrictions on travelling by the railway on Sunday. Now, he thought such a system of legislation improper, because it was partial and unjust. Why should one class be bound by restrictions, which did not affect others? Again, he was opposed to the principle of Sabbath legislation. Why should hon. Members wish to impose upon others their own views of religious duty? Let them keep the Sabbath as they pleased, but let them not seek to deprive the lower classes of that innocent recreation which they were entitled to, merely because they happened to think it improper. He was convinced no good would result from such a course. The experiment had been tried in Spain; and the principle of restrictive legislation on religious subjects, was there supported by the terror of the Inquisition: and its history in that country he thought afforded a wholesome lesson to its advocates in this. Some years ago orders were issued there that all persons should attend the mass. Now, mark the consequences. Some persons possessed themselves of all the communion tickets that they could procure, and then at the festivals of the Church, they sold the tickets to communicants, and thus made a traffic of the holiest rites of religion. Now, he thought; that legislation of that kind would have as bad effects in this country. He, therefore, moved that "The further consideration of the Report be deferred to that day six months."
 The Attorney-General  did not rise to oppose the second reading, though be doubted the expediency at the present moment of proceeding with this single measure. It could not be forgotten that the hon. Member for Middlesex, the chairman of the Committee which had recommended this and other measures of large importance for completing the machinery of the Reform Act, had given notice of a Bill having a similar object to the present. Besides this, nothing could be easier than to include all the details and provisions of this Bill in the Registration Bill which had been introduced by his noble Friend the Secretary for the Home Department. His only anxiety was to prevent the confusion which might arise from so much legislation on the same subject. One general act might comprise all these details, and approving, as he did entirely, of the principle of this Bill, he should not oppose its second reading, in the hope that the hon. Member for Hastings would postpone its future progress until the other measures to which he had adverted were fully before the House.
 The Attorney-General  wished not to be misunderstood. No one was more desi-
 527
 Mr. Jervis  would vote against the Bill: he was convinced that it would never operate, but would be quite nugatory: referring, as it did, to the Statute of Charles, one would be obliged constantly to look at that Act, and, instead of a small pamphlet, every man would be under the necessity of carrying a folio volume in his pocket, to ascertain what was therein excepted by the provisions of the Bill, He
 508
 Sir R. Bateson  supported the Bill. The hon. Member for Sussex (Mr. Curteis) had asked why Prebysterian Members should ask the House to compel the people of this country, to observe the Sabbath, after their ideas. His answer was, that Episcopalians and Presbyterians, were equally bound, in a religious view, in keeping the Sabbath holy: and he would tell that hon. Member, that the former were quite as much disposed to do so, as the latter. With regard to the Bill as it then stood, he wondered that any Gentleman could get up to oppose it: it seemed to him to be on every case beneficial, or at least innoccuous.
 Sir Robert Bateson  was most anxious for a final settlement of the Tithe Question, but not in the way proposed by the petitioners. He denied that the Presbyterians as a body wished for the abolition of the  regium donum. l.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that he had been requested by the hon. Member for Middlesex to attend this evening to state what he recollected hearing of the conversation which took place in his immediate neighbourhood in the House last night. He recollected perfectly that the hon. Member for Middlesex rose for the purpose apparently of making some explanation; and he
 500
 Sir Samuel Whalley  said, he had supported the second reading of the Bill certainly for its moderation; but he was of opinion that there were some parts which either did not go far enough, or which went too far: and it seemed to him that altogether the Bill did not protect the poor man, but deprived him of those relaxations to which he was entitled. The Bill only "protected" the tradespeople. Work might be going on all the while with the doors closed: but if the poor man went out of his house, he was met at every turn by the restrictive provisions of the Bill. He thought, therefore, that it did not effect its object, that it was too astringent, and, therefore, he should vote against it.
 Mr. William Miles  said, that he last night heard a conversation going on between the hon. Member for Middlesex and the hon. Member for Ludlow, and he thought according to his own recollection, that he heard the terms "impertinent fellow," or "impudent fellow," bandied about from both parties. He thought it necessary to state, however, that from the noise which prevailed at the time, it was almost impossible to catch distinctly what fell from either hon. Members,
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  said, he sat in the same place last night as that now occupied by the hon. Member for Bath (the principal Opposition bench); and he recollected hearing the hon. Member for Ludlow say to the hon. Member for Middlesex, in rather a tone of irritation, which attracted his attention, "Hold your tongue." The hon. Member for Middlesex made some reply, which did not reach his (Mr. Trevor's) ear, and the hon. Member for Ludlow then said. "If you have anything to say to me, you can reply after I sit down; I have not spoken to you." To the best of his recollection, the hon. Member for Ludlow never applied the expression "impertinent fellow" to the hon. Member for Middlesex. If the hon. Member had done so, he (Mr. Trevor) could scarcely have failed to hear the words, as he was sitting immediately below the hon. Member, and was consequently able to catch every word that fell from him. Some sharp expressions escaped from the lips of the hon. Member for Middlesex, the nature of which he did not comprehend, as it was spoken in an under tone.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  agreed with the hon. and gallant Officer, the Member for Lincoln (Colonel Sibthorp.) In fact it was a subject very difficult to legislate upon. It had always appeared to him, that it
 507
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  said, that the rev. gentleman referred to had put a statement into his hands in justification of his conduct, and he would, therefore, briefly lay the details of it. before the House. He must say, that it appeared to him to signify little what was the value of the tithe in question. The simple question was, had the proceedings been according to law? This transaction had occurred four years ago. Mr. Port, he thought, justly asked why had not this petition been brought forward at an earlier period? He stated that his tithing-man, between whom and Mr. Harris the affair had been carried on, and whose evidence would be material upon the subject, was since dead, and that that might afford a clue to the late period at which the matter was introduced to the notice of Parliament. We lived in times when it was extremely easy to cast imputations upon the characters of clergymen of the Established Church, and equally easy, he was sorry to say, to gain for them credibility, and no small share of support, no matter whether they were founded on truth and justice, or the reverse. The question in the present case was, had Mr. Port transgressed or not the law of the case, and had he laid claim to that to which he was not entitled. Let them find fault with the law if they would, and endeavour to introduce other measures, but do not throw the odium of the existing law, if odium be attached to it, on Mr. Port, or other clergymen, who find themselves compelled by the obstinacy of tithe-payers to have recourse to it. Mr. Harris was, certainly, put to considerable expense in consequence of the citation. Justice cost dear to farmers, but they could not alone complain, for he believed that justice was a cheap article to no one. Mr. Port would not have caused the expense had he not been forced to do so in seeking to obtain what was his due. It had nothing to do with the question whether the value of the article was 9 d. l. 482
 Lord Mahon  was sitting last night in the neighbourhood of the hon. Member for Ludlow, and his recollection of what passed accorded with that of the hon. Member who had just spoken. He was
 496
 Lord Morpeth  had not heard anything said to induce him to think it unadvisable that the Bill should at least be re-committed, and he hoped the House, which had agreed to the principle, would suffer that.
 Lord Morpeth  gave his cordial support to the Bill. He had just returned from the election in Yorkshire, at which a greater number of votes had been polled than at any other election which had taken place under the Reform Bill, and he knew that in one of the most populous districts, at which he happened to be, at 1 o'clock on the first day of the poll, a large majority of the electors had polled by that hour. Indeed, the chief business of the day was then over, as not more than 5 or 6 electors afterwards straggled in. That circumstance proved that it would be as satisfactory to the electors as to the elected to have the poll terminated in one day.
 Lord Morpeth  said, that although he had not the advantage of hearing the sound and skilful opinions of the Attorney and Solicitor-General for Ireland, he could not but feel that there was quite enough of law in the House to justify him in consenting to the second reading of the Bill. He hoped that before it went into Committee the Law Officers of the Crown would be in the House.
 Lord Stormont  heard the conversation which passed last night between the hon. Members for Middlesex and Bath, and he heard the hon. Member for Ludlow say, "Hold your tongue; do not interrupt." He then heard the hon. Member for Middlesex say, 'Hold  your
 Mr. Ruthven  supported the Motion, because he thought that a domestic Legislature in Ireland would be of great benefit to the country.
 Mr. Grattan  thought, that as the present Government were disposed to do justice to Ireland, the Motion before the House should be postponed until the nature of their measures were known.
 Dr. Baldwin  had seconded the Motion, because he believed that the hon. Mover was actuated by kind feeling towards Ireland. He did not, however, think it was one that would meet with general concurrence in this country.
 Dr. Baldwin  seconded the Motion.
 Mr. Cresset Pelham  wished that the hon. Member would so far alter the terms of his Motion as to leave to his Majesty the discretion to hold the Parliament either in Scotland or Ireland, or generally in distant parts of the Empire.
 Mr. Stewart Mackenzie  said, I rise, Sir, to present a Petition signed by the Moderator, and agreed to by the Rev. Ministers of the Synod of the county of Ross. The petition is short but relates to two most important subjects—the grants of money to the college of Maynooth and to the Irish national education plan. With the leave of the House I will read the paragraphs, and though unwilling to originate a debate at this moment on those subjects, I hope
 530 l. l. 531 "The College (Maynooth) has been principally supported by Parliamentary grants, though several donations and bequests have also been received for its use. The Parliamentary grants have varied in amount from time to time. For the first twenty-one years they averaged about 8,000 l. l., l. l., l. "It having been imputed to us that we intended to substitute these extracts from the
 532 "These selections are offered, not as a substitute for the Sacred Volume itself, but as an introduction to it, in the hope of their leading to a more general and more profitable perusal of the Word of God. "The passages introduced have been chosen, not as being of more importance than the rest of the Scriptures, but merely as appearing to be more level to the understandings of children and youth at school, and also best fitted to be read under the direction of teachers not necessarily qualified, and certainly not recognized, as teachers of religion; no passage has either been introduced or omitted under the influence of any particular view of Christianity, doctrinal or practical." "We have thus shown, to all who choose to read our rules with the view of understanding (not perverting them), that, while we desire to bring Christian children of all denominations together, so that they receive instruction in common in those points of education which do not clash with any particular religious opinions, we take care that sufficient time be set apart for separate religious instruction, and that the Ministers of God's word, of all Christian creeds, and those appointed by them, shall have the fullest opportunity of reading and expounding it, and of seeing that the children of their respective denominations do read and understand it, not only weekly, but daily, if they think proper. "The success which has attended our labours, which appears by the progress we have made, abundantly proves that the system of education committed to our charge has been gratefully received and approved by the public in general. We trust it will continue to spread and prosper. It shall be, as it ever has been, our constant object so to administer it as to make it acceptable and beneficial to the whole of his Majesty's subjects; to train up and unite, through it, the youth of the country together, whatever their religious differences may be, in feelings and habits of attachment and friendship towards each other; and thus to render it the means of promoting charity and good-will among all classes of the people." 533
 Mr. Bish  rose to move an Address to his Majesty, praying him to hold his Court and Parliament occasionally in that part of the United Kingdom called Ireland. He observed, that the experience of every day strengthened his conviction of the necessity of doing something for Ireland. He had looked anxiously at the notices of Motions regarding that part of the Empire, but found nothing proposed of a satisfactory nature, or which seemed calculated to render the present Resolution unnecessary. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had a Motion on the paper relative to a poor-rate for Ireland, but he doubted whether such a plan, if carried into effect, would materially benefit the people of that country. He had not seen anything to alter the opinion which he formerly expressed, that the present Resolution, was calculated to promote the in-
 534
 Sir Robert Peel.*  Although, Sir, I have resolved to avail myself of every advantage in the discussion of this most important question, which additional time and opportunities of reference, not only to documents already in the possession of the House, but to others which are not yet laid before it will afford me, and to decline entering, therefore, into any detailed discussion of the measure which the noble Lord has this night proposed: yet, Sir, on account of its vast importance, I should be unwilling to allow the Motion to be put from the Chair without a single observation having been offered on the subject except those contained in the speech of the noble Lord. I shall make no opposition whatever to that Motion; I shall throw not the slightest impediment in the
 * From a corrected Report, 559 560 561 562 563 564 Mr. Bonham Carter bowed, which occasioned much Laughter. Mr. Bonham Carter expressed his dissent. l. l. l. 565 l. s. l. s. l. l. l. l. l. s.
 Mr. Francis Baring  said, as we understood, that he had paid his share of the expense.
 Mr. Bonham Carter:  It is a very faithful report.
 Mr. Warburton  said, it was not his intention to oppose the second reading of the Bill, as the object proposed—namely, that of supplying good and wholesome water to the metropolis—was deserving the encouragement of the Legislature, but if it should come out in the Committee that the Bill proposed to give any exclusive power to this Company, he would certainly oppose it. There was nothing of novelty in the principle, that of sinking wells to obtain a supply of water. It was a principle that, for a long period, had been acted upon by various individuals, and from such a source a large quantity of good water was at this moment supplied. He therefore repeated that this was not a new discovery. The large breweries and distilleries, and a great number of manufactories, got their water from such a source, from which this company only proposed to supply it on a larger scale. They had no right, therefore, to exclusive privileges, and he should oppose their obtaining them.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  said, that as all plans hitherto for obtaining a supply of pure water for the metropolis had failed, this proposition was worthy of the attention of the Legislature: as it had been ascertained that there was an abundant supply of water underneath the metropolis, this Company only asked for the power of getting it up, and the privilege of selling it at such a rate, as a commission composed of the metropolitan Members should consider reasonable. He thought there was nothing unreasonable in such an application, and at all events the Bill should be allowed to go into Committee.
 Mr. Shaw Lefevre  observed, that sufficient grounds had not been adduced to call upon Parliament to pass a Bill of this nature. If there was, as they asserted, an abundant supply of water under the metropolis, let them try the experiment without coming to Parliament. It was quite certain, he believed, that such an experiment could not be tried without great danger to the supplies already in the posses-
 536
 Mr. Buckingham  supported the Bill. It was admitted on all hands that nothing was more wanted than a supply of pure water for the metropolis, and all the evidence went to show that such a supply was to be found beneath its surface.
 Mr. Henry Bulwer  said, the question was, whether the Company did not oppose a public advantage adequate to the privilege they sought. He denied that they asked for a monopoly in the bad sense of the word. A monopoly in perpetuity he was ready to admit was an obstacle to industry and exertion, but such a privilege as they sought—a temporary and limited monopoly—would, on the contrary, be a stimulus to industry and enterprise. He contended that the present case was precisely similar to that of a patent. It was said, that this was no new invention: had any such experiment, he asked, ever been made, or attempted before? Unless they were to give this Company an exclusive privilege, the other companies, having already the pipes sunk, &c, would take advantage of the success of the experiment, and drive these parties out of the market. All they asked for was a temporary monopoly in a good article, in order to put down a permanent monopoly in a bad one.
 Mr. Charles Barclay  said, that this Bill was for an experiment, and an experiment which would endanger, if not destroy, the property of others. He denied there existed a sufficient supply, at present, of pure spring water for the purposes it was wanted for. The manufactories and breweries which derived their supply from wells, had not, at this moment, a sufficient supply. He was enabled to state these facts from the experience of two or three wells in breweries and manufactories. One of them was his own well in his brewery. It was a well twenty feet in diameter, and sunk to a sufficient distance to catch the land springs. If this experiment should be tried, all the breweries and the manufactories, (of which there were many hundreds deriving their supply from this source) would lose their supply. In his own well the water, twenty years back, rose within five feet of the surface. It now only rose within twenty-five feet of the surface. That was a proof that there was anything but
 537
 Mr. Hume  said, that he had had sufficient experience of water monopolies, his rates having been doubled and trebled in the course of a few years, to render him adverse to the formation of any new monopoly of the kind: he looked, however, upon the present proposition in a different light. He understood that the proposition of these parties was, that it having been already ascertained that there existed underneath the metropolis an abundant supply of water, they proposed to obtain it for the use of the metropolis; but as great risk would attend the experiment in the first instance, they asked for exclusive privileges for a certain period, in order to secure them against loss, and to insure them a reasonable profit on their capital so sunk. He considered that an extremely fair proposition. At all events, they should allow the Bill to go into Committee. If when there, the parties should show that the public benefit to accrue from their undertaking would adequately compensate for the privilege they sought, the Bill should have his support, but upon no other ground.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  said, that it was because he objected to the monopolies and exactions of the water companies he should oppose this Bill. The effect of such an experiment, if it were tried, would be to dry up the wells of all the manufactories in London. Another objection to the Bill was, that even supposing this company should procure the water in sufficient abundance, it would come out of their cistern deteriorated, and unfit for the purposes to which it was at present applied. The public pumps, also, would necessarily suffer from such an experiment. The allegation on which the Bill went was, that
 538
 Colonel Evans,  with every respect for the hon. Member who had just spoken, must say that the facts he had mentioned must be taken as an  ex-parte
 Lord Granville Somerset  said, that the
 539 bona fide
 Dr. Lushington  agreed with the noble Lord that no Parliamentary grounds had been shown for making this experiment on a vast quantity of property, and the security for property in large and extensive districts in this metropolis. This experiment went to endanger property to an extent for which it would be quite impossible for this Company, even were they so inclined, to return any compensation. Let those parties exercise the power which they had at present of sinking wells, but let them not get a monopoly for that purpose.
 Mr. Wilks  supported the second reading of the Bill. The necessity for good water was notorious. The most eminent medical authorities had attributed the mortality that frequently prevailed in London to the bad water supplied to its inhabitants. The health of the metropolis therefore called for some such measure. He denied that this Company sought for any monopoly. They only asked for fair competition. The large brewers and the manufactories derived benefit from a supply of water from the wells, and it was they that contended for a monopoly of it.
 Mr. Mark Philips  said, that such a measure would, if carried, distract the water from the private wells, and therefore the effect of it would be to rob one party to supply another. Besides, it should be recollected that it was private property that would suffer from the invasion. Such an experiment would be productive of great loss to several manufactories and valuable institutions throughout the metropolis.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that Parliament had already expended 5,000 l. 540
 Mr. Vernon Smith  said, the question was, whether they would let those parties try this experiment at the public expense, and interfere, as it was shown they would, with the private property of others. He decidedly objected to such a measure. It only went to create a fresh monopoly.
 Sir Francis Burdett,  in reply, said that the very fact of the different statements that were made on the subject showed the propriety of sending the Bill into Committee, where the whole case could be properly investigated. Some hon. Gentlemen felt, no doubt, strongly interested in opposing the Bill, as they thought it would injure their property. It was, however, his conviction, from all that he heard from the best authorities oh the subject, that it would be made out to the satisfaction of the Committee, that there existed an abundant supply of water for all purposes underneath the metropolis. There was no monopoly sought by this measure. In truth, the effect of it would be to promote competition. It had been proved by scientific men on philosophical principles that the proposed plan was feasible, and must be successful. If the contrary should be proved before the Committee, he would willingly give up the measure. It was a disgrace to the country that the poor of this metropolis were not supplied with an abundance of good water. As to the exclusive power sought by the company, they would be satisfied with one for a period of 14 years. The measure would not do harm to anybody, and, after all, they only asked to do that which every individual had the power of doing at common law. He understood that some of the existing water companies were determined to do the same thing themselves. He submitted that sufficient reasons had been given for sending the Bill to a Committee. As to the Commissioners, a great mistake existed on that point. A leading paper of that day,  The Times, 541
 Mr. Warburton  said, that though he had said he would vote for the second reading of the Bill, yet after what he had heard he had changed his mind, and would vote against it, as the parties declared that it would be worth nothing without a monopoly.
 Mr. O'Connell  was anxious to say one word before the question was put to the vote. He thought that there was an essential defect in the title of the Bill. There was a deficiency of one word which greatly diminished the value of the measure. It was entitled "A Bill for the Better Regulation of Municipal Corporations in England and Wales." The word he wished to see annexed to it was Ireland. In other respects he did not think that it was possible to produce a measure which was more entitled than the present to universal approbation. From the omission of the word he had alluded to, it might appear that, since the Union, Ireland was only to be treated by measures of coercion; and while the House had been extending the franchise to other parts of the empire, it had been cutting Ireland short of her share. They had already experienced the evils of doing injustice to Ireland in many points. The Irish Reform Bill was distinguished by its injustice in this point, namely, doing so much less for Ireland than for England. He hoped that they would remedy the injustice they had done, and that they would give a measure equally extensive as the present to Ireland. They required no more; they would not be satisfied with less, nor ought they to be satisfied. The right hon. Member for Tamworth had thrown out an observation respecting leaving livings in the hands of Corporations, the greater portion of the members of which were Dissenters. He
 574
 The Noble Lord  stated, that after the death of the present race, there would be no freemen to vote.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  assured the hon. Gentleman that it was the intention of his Majesty's Government to bring forward a measure of Corporation Reform for Ireland, as extensive in its provisions as that introduced by his noble Friend. He could speak of the necessity of reforming the Corporations in Ireland; he had had experience of the conduct of one of those bodies, and he knew that the conduct pursued by that was not singular to it. There was a circumstance which prevented the present Bill being applied to Ireland—namely, the principle of giving votes to rate-payers. Every one connected with that country must be aware that such a principle was not applicable to Ireland.
 576
 The Attorney General  wished to remind hon. Members, that England was not the first country that had had a measure of Corporate Reform conceded to her by the present Government. They had conceded such a measure to Scotland three years ago, and it had been found to operate most beneficially. The people of England had waited patiently until the inquiry of the Commissioners had been completed, and a measure was now produced which appeared to give general satisfaction; and he trusted that in the course of a few days a Bill for Ireland would be introduced, and would meet with a similar reception. He could not sit down without referring to an observation—which appeared something like a slight slur—which had fallen from the right hon. Baronet. He was sure that when the right hon. Baronet had read the whole of the Report, he would feel that the Ministers had acted with the greatest impartiality. Indeed, the case of Derby, referred to by the right hon. Baronet, was a proof of this.
 Mr. Mark Phillips  called attention to the circumstance of newspapers in which particular paragraphs were scored, being subject to postage.
 Mr. Francis Baring : I am sure, Sir, that you will be happy to receive the ordinary attentions in any manner which the House may determine; but, looking to the empty benches of the House, I do not think this to be a proper time for taking a decision upon such a question.
 Lord John Russell  replied, that rating usually depended on an arrangement between the landlord and tenant. A person could generally be rated on an application on his own part.
 Lord John Russell  said, that, under this Bill, there would be a power of making new Corporations; but it was not intended to apply this principle to the new metropolitan boroughs.
 Lord John Russell  stated, that all persons, having the right of voting under the Reform Bill, would have a vote in Corporations.
 Lord John Russell  was aware that there were some small Corporations which did not possess sufficient means of paying their expenses: it might, therefore, be desirable to get rid rid of them. He saw no objection to the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet.
 Lord John Russell : I now rise to perform the very important duty of asking, on behalf of his Majesty's Government, leave of the House to bring in a Bill, to provide for the regulation of Municipal Corporations in England and Wales. It was not till very lately that I expected such a task would have fallen to ray lot. In the course of last autumn, it was my hope and expectation, that the consideration of this important subject would have been in the hands of an individual, who I think will be admitted, on all sides of the House, to be eminently qualified for the task—of one who, in introducing it to the notice of Parliament, would have brought to it a degree of mature reflection, on account of legal knowledge and an intimate acquaintance with the constitution of the country, that would have recommended the measure to the country with a force and an effect which cannot belong to my arguments. I would say more, Mr. Speaker, were it not that I am now alluding to yourself, and that, therefore, it would not be proper for me to go farther. But since, by circumstances of comparatively recent occurrence, the duty of bringing forward the measure belongs to the station I now hold, I shall only beg that the House will give me that indulgence of which I stand so greatly in need, and make allowance for that inadequacy and those deficiencies which I am sure it will discover. I ask for that indulgence, because the question is one of the highest importance—one of considerable intricacy and detail—one which relates to ancient practices and privileges—and one which,
 542 543 544 l. l. l. l. l. 545 546 l. l. l. l. 547 548 Robert Peel: 549 550 551 l. 552 viva voce 553 l., . l. 554 555 556 557 558
 Lord John Russell  was understood to say, that a separate measure would be introduced in regard to London, with regard to some of the other Corporations mentioned in the Report, they were so small that he had not determined whether they should be included or not. The right hon. Baronet had complained of his having gone into details of the abuses of some particular boroughs, but that was not the case, as he had only stated of whom the Corporation consisted in those boroughs.
 Mr. Baines  was sure that the Dissenters of England and Wales would not wish to interfere with the Church patronage belonging to Corporations, even though they
 575
 Mr. Strutt  said, that the Corporation of Derby which he had the honour to represent, having been alluded to, he could, upon the part of the members of that Corporation, state that none would more sincerely coincide with him in thanking the noble Lord for having introduced this measure than they would.
 Mr. Aglionby  wished it to be understood that such newspapers, addressed to Members of Parliament, ought not to be subject to any charge.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that the subject was entirely new to him. He should take the opportunity of communicating with, the Post-office upon it. He himself had never paid any charge for newspapers addressed to him in which paragraphs were scored, and he did not think that any charge ought to be made; at the same time he could conceive a system of ingenious scoring which might be used to a very unfair extent.
 Mr. Labouchere  rose to move that the House resolve itself into
 578
 Mr. Warburton  approved of the proposal which had been made by the hon. Member for Middlesex. It was not, however, because he had no court dress that he was desirous to see the intended change effected, but because he was satis-
 580
 The Speaker : I have expressed no opinion upon the subject. It is a matter in which I feel that I ought not to interfere.
 The Speaker  said, with reference to the subject which the hon. Member has brought under the consideration of the House, I can only say that I shall always cheerfully follow the example of my predecessors in consulting the convenience of the House as to the mode of conducting the customary levees. With respect to the change in dress proposed by the hon. Member I do not feel myself justified in proposing any alteration in it to the House, as I have a prescribed duty to perform with reference to it—namely, to follow the course adopted by my predecessors. However, if the House should, in a matter which exclusively concerns their own feelings and sense of propriety, express any decided opinion on the subject, it will afford me the highest gratification to conform to the wishes of the House.
 Mr. Roebuck  remarked that, in many large towns, there were great numbers of persons who had holdings under 10 l.,
 Mr. Brotherton,  as a Member for one of the new boroughs alluded to by the noble Lord, rose to express his gratification with the measure now proposed. In the borough which he represented, the principle of the proposed Bill had been acted upon for sometime, and it had been found to be most beneficial. In the large town of Manchester there was a most numerous constituency; and in the first instance it was proposed that none should have a vote in connexion with the Municipal Government of the place who did not pay a certain sum in rates; in consequence, however, of the small number of voters that there would be under such an arrangement—he believed not more than fifty—it was determined to make the voting general to the rate-payers, and this had given universal satisfaction. He did not entirely concur with the noble Lord on one point; he did not see the expediency of making the payment of rates for three years a necessary qualification for a vote. This would unnecessarily limit the constituency. In Manchester the number of voters was several thousand, and it would be reduced by the Bill, if the payment of three years' rates was insisted on to constitute a qualification. He thought well, however, of the measure, taking it altogether, and he had no doubt that it would give general satisfaction to the country. He felt perfectly satisfied that the property intrusted to the control of the Corporate bodies to be appointed under the Bill would be managed to the satisfaction of the people.
 Mr. Hume  said, as the House is now about to adjourn, I rise to call its attention to a subject, which, though it relates to a matter of etiquette, is nevertheless of no slight importance. There is no privilege with which the Members of this House are invested which we should be enabled to exercise with less restraint than that which enables us to pay our respects to you, Mr. Speaker, in the usual form. I can say, of my own knowledge, that many individuals, during the time I have been a Member of Parliament, have been prevented from
 579
 Mr. Hume  hoped that all parties would co-operate in making this measure as perfect as possible. He wished to ask the noble Lord whether his Bill was intended to apply to any other Corporations, but the 183 mentioned by him.
 Mr. Ewart  felt bound to observe that he, as the representative of an old Corporate town, was equally satisfied with the hon. Member who spoke last with the measure of the noble Lord. He was convinced, that the extent of suffrage, limited in the way proposed by the noble Lord, would not greatly reduce the number of voters. It was a curious circumstance that one of the first countries which adopted a sound system of Municipal Government to any extent, was strictly monarchical. He alluded to Prussia, where, in 1808, an extensive measure of Municipal Reform, corresponding, in many respects, with that of the Noble Lord, was proposed by one of the first Ministers of State that ever lived in that country—he meant Baron Von Stein. There were some principles connected with that plan which he thought might be taken up with ad-
 573
 Mr. Finn  was most anxious that a measure of equal extent with the present should be granted to Ireland. In that country the Corporations were infinitely worse, and squandered the money of the people away in a manner which the people of England could form no conception of. He wished that the Government had some measure ready for Ireland.
 Sir John Campbell  said, he had to lay upon the Table of the House the Report of the Committee to whom were referred, for a second time, the Bill for the Abolition of Imprisonment for Debt. He trusted that all the difficulties in the way of that measure being passed, would now be removed. One of the amendments agreed to in the Committee was, that book debts were to stand on the same footing as bills of exchange and bonds. After a great deal of deliberation, two clauses were introduced in conformity with the opinion of a large majority of the Committee, the operation of which would be to enable the assets of insolvent persons to be administered by trustees without taking out a fiat of bankruptcy. If creditors chose, they would have the opportunity of winding up the estates, the intervention of a lawyer not being necessary. It was proposed, that if seven-eighths of the creditors concurred in this arrangement, the one-eighth were to be over-ruled, and would not possess the power of fraudulently resisting the arrangement. He should move that the Bill, as amended, should be re-printed, and that the Report should be taken into further consideration on Wednesday se'nnight.
 Sir Richard Musgrave  said, he rose for the purpose of asking leave to bring in a Bill, the principal object of which was to consolidate the laws relating to the civil functions of Grand Juries in Ireland, and to promote the extension of Public Works. It was unnecessary for him to say much on the importance of public works. The principal design in introducing the Bill was to afford employment to the able-bodied labourer. He had already brought forward a Bill for the relief of the helpless poor. If, in addition to these measures, a certain control over the expenditure of counties were given to the Board of Works, in Ireland, a complete system of employment and relief would be established. The laws
 577
 Sir Robert Peel  observed, that there were some small Corporations which had ceased to return Members to Parliament: he would, therefore, suggest, that if they wished to resign their Corporate privileges they might be at liberty to do so. He thought that there could be no objection to this, provided it was done with the consent of all the parties interested.
 Sir Robert Peel  continaed—41 l. s. l. 566 bonâ fide 567 No from the Ministerial side. l. l. l. 568 569 570 571
 Sir Robert Peel : Here is the report in which the whole matter is set down.
 Lord Sandon  thought that an unfavourable time for making any alteration in the mode of paying the customary respects to their Speaker, whose levees he for one, should be most happy to attend, as a proof of his approval of the manner in which he had performed the duties imposed on him.
 The hon. George Byng  as Deputy Comptroller of the Household, reported to the House that an Address having on the 19th May been agreed to by the House, praying his Majesty's interference with his allies for the prevention of the slave-trade, his Majesty had most graciously received the Address, and returned the following answer:—"I have received your dutiful Address, containing the expression of your wishes, that
 588
 Mr. O'Connell  had been personally assailed, or at all events, alluded to, by the noble Lord who presented the Petition, and begged leave to make a few remarks on it. The noble Lord after having abused the late Whig Ministry himself, had charged him with having done the same. He did not dispute the goodness of his Lordship's taste in this respect; and a right lion. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) had commenced the Session by reading a letter from him (Mr. O'Connell) in which he had stated that they had forfeited his confidence. Yet the noble Lord contended that the present Government, which was little more than a re-appointment, was under his (Mr. O'Connell's) control. This was a little too much; first, for party purposes, it was urged that the present Ministers were unworthy of his (Mr. O'Connell's) confidence; and next, for the same party purposes it was insisted that being appointed by himself, they had his fullest confidence. Such arguments (continued the hon. and learned Member) are both foolish and absurd; I do not mean any personal disrespect when I say so, but they are unbecoming the character of a Legislator, and, Heaven bless the mark! of a Statesman, which is the rank to which the noble Lord aspires. Then it is said, that all the recent appointments have been madeby me. The late Secretary for the Ordnance (Colonel Perceval) cheers me: I am sure I had as much to do with the recent appointments as I had with his appointment. He throws up his head at that: I am certainly very glad that he has ceased to fill that office, not from any personal dislike, but because it is symptomatic of a change of party. I deny that any office in the present Ministry, or connected with it, was filled at my instance or at my suggestion, or that I had the slightest influence in the matter. I am sorry that I had not: I think that some of the places would have
 596 597 598 599
 Mr. Patrick M. Steward  was not sure that it properly devolved upon him, as Chairman of the Committee, to make the Motion alluded to by his hon. Friend the Member for Derbyshire. He had no instructions from the Committee regarding any Motion for the arrest of the witnesses. He would, therefore, for the present, simply move, "That the Minutes of the Evidence taken before the Committee be laid upon the Table of the House." Having brought the subject under the notice of the House, he would rather leave it to his hon. Friend to make the Motion which he had proposed if he thought proper to do so; and he would leave it to the House to consider whether the Motion should be acceded to. With regard to the proposition of his hon. Friend, that the conduct of the Magistrates should be taken into consideration he thought it a little premature.
 Mr. O'Connell  could not help remarking on the inconvenience attending the present proceeding, namely, debating one question when another was before the House. The Question before the House was, whether the Minutes of Evidence should be laid on the Table, and they were all agreed on that point. He would suggest that that Motion should be put, as well as that for printing the Evidence, and then they could put the proposition of the hon. Member for Derbyshire. The Motion had been generally misunderstood. The question was, not that certain persons should be taken into custody for the purposes of punishment, but that they should be arrested, so that they would be amenable for punishment should they be found to deserve it. The House had presumptive evidence sufficient to warrant them in pursuing the latter course. If the parties were arrested, then they would be amenable to justice, and would have an opportunity of defending themselves against the Report of the Committee; and should the allegations adduced against them appear unfounded, of course they would be discharged. The Committee had jurisdiction in this matter, and after hearing evidence they concluded that those persons had wilfully kept away to prevent the service of the Speaker's warrant. They were better judges than the House could be of this fact, and it would be casting a reflection on the Committee if they did not admit the allegations in the Report. The hon. and learned Gentleman had talked of the value of personal liberty—undoubtedly it
 616
 Mr. Palmer  explained the cause of his absence since last Friday from the Ennis Committee, of which he is a Member. He
 621
 Mr. Blackburne  had a great objection to one Clause of the Bill. The Clause to which he alluded would disfranchise the whole of the freeholders of counties who were not possessed of freeholds to the amount of 40 s., l. 625
 Sir George Strickland,  notwithstanding the warmth and zeal of the hon. Member who had just sat down, must give his cordial support to the general and leading principles of so useful and wise a measure. The objection made by the hon. Member for Huddersfield (Mr. Blackburne) might be taken into consideration in Committee. Besides the hon. Gentleman had not stated the principles of the Bill fairly. He had omitted to state the abuses of the present system. In the county of York, in particular, the office of Coroner had become a property, and it was there a saying that a Coroner was returned by one or two persons. No man would be more ready than himself to endeavour to avoid the disfranchisement of those persons alluded to, but he really thought that Clause was a subject for consideration in Committee. With regard to the ninepence a mile that had been mentioned, he believed that the fair construction of the Act of Parliament which gave that amount for travelling expenses would make it amount to the same as it was now proposed to make it. The ninepence a mile having been considered to be ninepence to a place and from a place, and the present Bill only expressed what the previous Act intended. He would remind the House that this necessary measure had now been before it for no less a term than five years.
 The Solicitor-General  said, that the last day of the last session a Bill similar to the present had been thrown out of that House after having passed the House of Lords, in consequence of some amendments having been made. With regard to the clause which might be considered harsh in its operation, namely, that which disfranchised the poorer freehold voters, it might be easily altered in Committee, and he for one would concur in such alteration. The present Bill for the first time gave the power to a Coroner of registration of all those who came to an untimely end; to order the opening of a body when considered necessary; and authorise the payment of a medical man for the purpose The Court of the Coroner was also to be
 626
 Mr. Blackburne  consented to withdraw his Amendment, reserving to himself the right of opposing any obnoxious clauses in the Committee.
 The Attorney General  said be felt himself responsible for that particular clause as it now stood, having been induced so to draw it up as, if possible, at once to secure the important object of publicity, and obviate the objections to that principle which seemed to be felt in another place. When duly considered, he had no doubt it would receive the approbation of that House and the public. The Coroner's Court was now considered by many persons an open Court, but by others it was asserted that the Coroner might capriciously, without assigning any reason whatever, turn out those who attended for the public press, or who were anxious to see that justice was properly administered, and sit with shut doors. Now, this Bill declared that the Coroner's Court was an open Court, where the justice of the country should be administered openly before the country. At the same time it gave the Coroner a power, which he
 628
 Mr. Francis Baring  opposed the Motion, upon the ground that the whole of the circumstances connected with the dismissal of Mr. Walker had been fully inquired into ten years ago; and also, because he thought the papers moved for by the hon. Baronet were of a description that could not be produced consistently either with decency or security to the public service.
 Sir George Strickland  supported the Bill, and must say, that he thought that the speech of the late Attorney-General the hon. and learned Member for Huntingdon in favour of it, was quite convincing and unanswerable. The existing law was a remnant of feudal severity, and the alteration in it was resisted
 629
 The Lord Advocate  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to explain and amend an Act of the 2nd and 3rd William 4th., chap. 65, to Amend the Representation of the people, and the Registration of the Voters in Scotland; and also to carry into effect the recommendations made by the Committee of last Session, for diminishing the expense of elections there. The right hon. Gentleman said he would shortly state the objects which he proposed to effect. He wished to put an end to creating votes. The Bill would put an end to creating such votes by subdividing property. That such attempts should be made to acquire political influence in Scotland, would not surprise those who remembered the paper qualification which existed under the old system, but it was the duty of the Legislature to prevent it as far as possible. The provision by which he proposed to guard against the extension of this practice under the new system of representation (where it was as yet in embryo only, but liable to increase into a positive evil) was, that there should be not more than two voters on any one joint property or joint farm, instead of, a properly or farm being divided among a great number of holders, each of whom had a vote. This will be the limit to which the creation of fictitious freeholds could now be carried,—in ordinary cases there would of course, be but one vote to each farm. The next point to which he had directed his attention was the difficulty arising from the opposite opinions and decision given in the Courts of Appeal on the validity of votes, a circumstance consequent on the nature of the Appeal Courts in Scotland. The
 636 primâ facie 637
 Mr. Cressett Pelham  thought the House was obliged to the hon. Member for Derbyshire, for taking up the case in the way in which he had.
 Mr. Cressett Pelham  said, that he rose to second the Motion stated by the hon. Member for Derbyshire. He thought the present a case well worthy the attention of the House.
 Mr. Fox Maule  said, he had no objection to the Bill being read a second time if the hon. Gentleman would postpone the Committee, in order to allow time for the consideration of several alterations which he should feel it his duty to propose, on the subject of County-rates. These alterations could not be taken into consideration till after the Report of the Committee to inquire into the subject had been laid on the Table.
 Mr. Scarlett  concurred in the Motion for the production of the Papers. He thought there had been very great abuses in Tripoli, though he did not mean to make any charge against the British Consul; but he conceived that at some future period it would be the duty of the House to investigate them.
 Mr. William Duncombe  presented a petition from Richmond, Yorkshire, very numerously and respectably signed, by landed proprietors and landholders connected with the Agricultural Society of the North Riding of Yorkshire. The petitioners expressed their discontent at the House not having taken into its consideration the distress under which the agricultural classes laboured. He gave his cordial concurrence to the prayer of the petition and, joined with the petitioners in expressing regret that their distressed state had not been taken into consideration. Year after year the agricultural classes had come forward with statements of their distress, with the view of obtaining some measures of relief. He had felt it his duty to give his vote in favour of the Motions that had been brought forward upon this subject during the present Session of Parliament. He had given his votes without any reference to party feeling. He had supported
 587
 Lord Granville Somerset  differed from the right hon. Gentleman. He (Lord Granville Somerset) had read the whole of the papers through with great attention ten years ago, and he certainly remembered nothing that they contained that could be regarded as rendering them unfit to be produced in that House. He
 634
 Lord John Russell  said, he would answer as clearly as he could the question put by his right hon. Friend. The Bill to which he had alluded had two objects; one to maintain the prerogative of the Crown with regard to impressment, and the other to encourage voluntary enlistment. Now, in these two objects he was disposed to concur. The Motion of the hon. Member for Sheffield with respect to the instruction to the Committee, he should feel it is duty to resist. Having explained so far, he had to state further, that after consulting with his Colleagues, the first Lord of the Admiralty, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer, on the sub-
 623
 Lord John Russell  moved that the debate be postponed until to-morrow.
 Lord John Russell  rose to suggest, that they should postpone the debate on this subject until to-morrow. He thought that in all cases of this kind, they should have precedents before them; and if they postponed the matter for a short time, they would have all the precedents bearing on the case. Since the subject had been alluded to, he had found an analogous case, and he had no doubt others could be found. The case he alluded to was that of Camel-ford; and in referring to the votes of 16th June, 1819, he found the following special report: "That Wm. Hallett and others did corruptly endeavour to procure the return of two persons to serve in Parliament for the said borough of Camelford; and that the said Wm. Hallett has wilfully absconded, in order to avoid being summoned to give evidence before this Committee. Whereupon this person was ordered to be taken into the custody of the Serjeant-at-arms." He thought this was a case in point, but he trusted that his hon. Friend would not insist on their coming to
 617
 Lord John Russell  was understood to say, that as the guilt of the Magistrates
 610
 Lord John Russell  observed, that when he had formerly said, that they ought to take more time to consider the matter, he did not mean that observation to apply to the case of the witnesses. He thought that the practice had always been, where a Committee had made a Report inculpating parties, that the House immediately ordered them into custody, lest they should abscond. He thought the House had a
 611
 Mr. O'Dwyer  asked, if there was a report of the speech?
 Mr. O'Dwyer  said, that if it was consistent with the rules of the House, he would beg leave to move as an Amendment, that there be laid upon the Table of the House, the minutes of all the evidence taken before the Committee, and also a transcript of all statements and legal arguments made use of by Mr. Kelly.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that the Question
 609
 Mr. Harvey  had been informed, that no other candidate had made a speech before the Committee besides Mr. Kelly; he had also found that the speech was taken down by the same short-hand writer as took the evidence. If the House did not afford Mr. Kelly the advantage of laying; his speech before the House, he trusted that it would not be hereafter referred to with the view of adducing charges against him.
 Mr. Ronayne  wished to notice this one fact—that at this meeting it was not attempted to propound one single resolution in support of Tithes as they at present stood. He took the opportunity of giving his unqualified contradiction to the statement made by the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir R. Bateson)—namely, that in the Castle-yard the band had been stopped in order that an opportunity might be given of making the display alluded to. He was an eye-witness upon the occasion, and he could give a most distinct contradiction to the statement.
 Mr. Robinson  believed, that there was no instance of any statement made by Counsel being laid before the House.
 Mr. Goring  said, that the measure was the result of a mistaken humanity, and would neither benefit the prisoner nor the public. It was unnecessary inasmuch as the judge was the Prisoner's Counsel, and it would be mischievous, causing contentions among the counsel, and delaying the business of the Courts. He objected particularly to the clause which allowed an Attorney to plead as counsel. Considering the Bill to be quite unnecessary, he would move that it be read a second time that day six months.
 Mr. Horace Twiss  said, that having for many years past taken an anxious interest on the subject, he trusted the House would allow him to state those reasons which he thought gave great weight to the propriety and necessity of the Measure. They had heard that evening, a specimen of most of the arguments, usually advanced as a defence of the existing system; in the first place, there was the old argument of the Judges being the Prisoner's Counsel, and that the Bill would deprive the prisoner of that existing advocacy: that presumed in the first place, that the Judge had the opportunity of hearing all the evidence, which were he the Counsel for the prisoner, he would have the means of knowing, and then that he would know accurately what points of that evidence bore upon the merits of his case. Now, if that were so, not only would there be no necessity for the speech of the Counsel for the prosecution, but, in civil cases, no necessity for Counsel on either side, as the evidence would come out passage by passage, and the Judge would have nothing to do but to decide on its application, and then, without any contest, there would be an end of the matter. But how was the Judge to know what was the point intended to be relied upon by either of the parties? He had no brief upon the matter, the only brief which he got was the deposition, which was in fact the brief of the prosecutor. But then it was said, that the Judge would hold the prosecutor's brief, as the Prisoner's Counsel, while the only brief he held was the depositions taken before the Magistrate which in many cases were  ex-parte 630 631 malice prepense 632 633
 The Speaker  having read the Motion from the Chair, "That the Minutes of Evidence taken before the Committee be laid upon the Table of the House."
 The Speaker  would for a moment request the attention of the House. The object of petitioning he had always understoood was either to express the opinion of the petitioners respecting some measure then under, or about to be under, the consideration of the House, or to convey to the House a complaint regarding some particular grievance. It had, therefore, been understood that general discussions should be avoided on the presentation of petitions. He did not particularly refer to the noble Lord, who was only following the example of others. If, however, on the presentation of a petition not only the subject matter of it but transactions that had occurred since its adoption should be gone into and a general debate should ensue, it would be quite impossible to get through the business before the House. At that moment he had on his list for that evening the names of thirty Gentlemen who had petitions to present. He could not interfere in the matter. It was for the House to decide what course should be pursued. He repeated, however, that if topics should be discussed on the presentation of petitions which would be more fitly discussed in some fixed debate, no time would be sufficient for the transaction of business.
 The Speaker  said, he had made no particular reference to the noble Lord, he had, on the contrary, said, the noble Lord was only following the example of others.
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that having been personally appealed to by the right hon. Baronet, Sir James Graham, he was bound to say that he had stated the case of the Bills and the discussions to which they had given rise, with great fairness and fidelity; and he concurred with the right hon. Gentleman entirely in the opinion that both these Bills were of such public importance that they ought to be undertaken by the Government rather than left in the hands of any individual; at the same time he must say, that he had hoped to have heard from the noble Lord, the Secretary of the Home Department, a different opinion from that which he had just advanced in favour of a satisfactory recognition of the prerogative of the Crown to enforce the impressment of Seamen.—He had hoped that his Majesty's Government would have been content to have let the prerogative remain as it was, a power existing in name only, but never to be carried into execution, and to be permitted to expire or die a natural death by process of time alone, in common with the other feudal privileges that have already so become extinct. For himself, he must say, that his objections to impressment continued as strong as ever, and though it would give him great pain to do anything which might have the appearance of obstruction to the proceedings of the present Government, he was bound in honour to say, that if they should retain in the Bill of the right hon. Baronet, when it came before the House again, the objectionable clauses which went to enact or give statutory recognition to the power of impressment as a just, and lawful, and undoubted prerogative of the Crown, he should feel it his duty to oppose it, and to take the sense of the House upon the Question.—He should readily consent to the postponement of the Bill for the period named, to enable the Government to make such alterations in it as they might think de-
 624
 Dr. Bowring  had no wish to call for any papers, the production of which would inconvenience the Government.
 Dr. Bowring  rose, pursuant to notice, to move for the Correspondence between his Majesty's Consul at Tripoli and the British Government, on the contested claims to the Pachalic of that country; and also on the claims of British subjects on the Government or subjects of Tripoli. The hon. Gentleman said, he was induced to move for these papers in consequence of certain representations which had been made, and which were very generally believed, not only in this country, but in the South of Europe, that Mr. Warrington, the British Consul at Tripoli, had most imprudently and most improperly mixed himself up with the contests which had recently taken place for the Pachalic of that country. It was said that the Pacha had complained of Mr. Warrington's conduct, and requested that he might be withdrawn; but that the application had failed of the effect for which it was intended. It was rumoured further, not only that representations of Mr. Warringston's misconduct had been made by the Pacha, but by the Porte, by the Ambassadors of other Powers, and by the commercial men residing and carrying on business at Tripoli. The latter were said to have expressed great dissatisfaction at Mr. Warrington's conduct. It was not his intention to blame Mr. Warrington's conduct, or to judge of it; but he was quite sure that the House would look with great anxiety to the conduct of the Representative of British interests in a country so remote, and of such increasing importance as Tripoli. It was upon that account that he wished the House to be put in possession of such documents as the Government should think proper to produce, in order that hon. Gentlemen might know what was actually passing in that part of the world.
 Mr. Roebuck  begged to ask why the hon. Member had omitted the sitting Members, who had been reported as being guilty, through their agents, of bribery and corruption.
 Mr. Wilks  thought that as the House would be inclined to visit with special indignation those who tampered with the integrity of electors, and were guilty of bribery, they should be anxious to proceed with caution and hesitation. He thought the enormity of the charge brought against the persons named in the Report of the Committee, was a sufficient reason for pausing before they resorted to strong measures. He was satisfied, if they acted upon the doctrine laid down by the hon. Member for Dublin, that they would establish a dangerous precedent. He said, that in ordering these persons to be taken into custody, they only did so to see whether they had or had not been guilty of an offence. The House had never hitherto acted on this principle, and he trusted that it never would. He thought the precedent quoted did not hold good in the present case. He suggested that further proceedings should be postponed, until the evidence was printed and in the hands of Members.
 Mr. Pease  declared, if the disfranchisement clause were not abandoned, he should vote against the Bill on the third reading.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  wished merely to state, that it came out in the course of the evidence, that the persons alluded to absconded to avoid being summoned to attend before the Committee. They had met previously together at Ipswich, and resolved at the suggestion of some of the agents, not to attend any inquiry that might take place in that House respecting the election. This came out in evidence; and he left it to the House to form its judgment in the matter.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  was not aware that there was any precedent for such a course, but he would leave the subject to the sense of the House.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  said, that there was no authorized report.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  brought up the Report of the Committee appointed upon the subject of the Ipswich Election. He was directed by the Committee, to inform the House that the Committee had, after due consideration, come to the following Resolutions:—
 "That the Resolutions of the 14th of April be rescinded. "That Robert Adam Dundas, Esq., and Fitzroy Kelly, Esq., are not duly elected, and ought not to have been returned to serve in the present Parliament for the borough of Ipswich. "That the petition of Robert Ransom and others does not appear to have been frivolous or vexatious. "That the opposition to the said petition does appear to be frivolous and vexatious. "That Mr. John Brown and others had been struck off the roll, it having been proved that they were not entitled to vote. "That Robert Adam Dundas and Fitzroy Kelly, Esqrs., were, by their friends and agents, guilty of bribery and corruption at the late election for the borough of Ipswich; and that Arthur Robert Cooke, J. B. Dasent, John Pilgrifn, and others were guilty of bribery at the said election. "That J. B. Dasent, A. R. Cooke, R. B. Clamp, and John Pilgrim, were guilty of absconding, to avoid being served with the Speaker's warrant; and that J. E. Sparrow and John Clipperton, the avowed agents of the sitting Members, and F. O'Mally, Esq., one of the Counsel employed by the sitting Members, aided and abetted them in keeping out of the way to avoid giving evidence before this Committee. "That the said John Pilgrim having at length been served with the Speaker's warrant, was prevented attending on this Committee by being arrested on a charge of embezzlement by Messrs Sewell and Blake, under very suspicious circumstances. "That the conduct of the Magistrates, Samuel Bignold, Esq. and E. Temple Booth, Esq., before whom he was charged, appears to this Committee to be a breach of the privileges of the House." 606
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  said, that the question was easily answered. He meant to move that a new Writ be issued for the election of Representatives for that Borough.
 Mr. Sheil  begged to ask the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) whether he intended to continue Messrs. Bignold and Booth in the Magistracy?
 Mr. Gisborne  wished strictly to follow the course adopted in former cases of the same kind. The hon. Member would find that in all former cases, where Members were placed under similar circumstances with Messrs. Kelly and Dundas, the House had always postponed any proceeding against them until after the minutes of evidence were before the House.
 Mr. Gisborne  then said, that a case, which he believed to be analogous to the present, bad occurred in 1827—he meant that of Penryn, in which Mr. Leigh Keck, who was the Chairman of the Committee who sat upon that election, reported that John Stanbury, having been summoned to attend to give evidence before the Committee, had not attended, and that it appeared he had absconded, and he therefore moved that John Stanbury be taken into custody, and that the Speaker do issue his warrant to that effect. He suggested that, in the present case, the same course should be pursued by the House that had been pursued in the case of Penryn. With respect to one class of the offenders—he meant those who had absconded in order that they might not be called upon to give their evidence before the Committee—the difference between the case of Penryn and the present case was, extremely slight. The only difference was that in the Penryn case, John Stanbury had been served with the Speaker's warrant, and had afterwards absconded; but in the case now under consideration, J. B. Dasent, A.R. Cooke, R. B. Clamp, and John Pilgrim had been guilty, as appeared from the Report made by the Committee, of having absconded in order to avoid being served with the Speaker's warrant.— 607 Cries of "Move." 608
 Mr. Gisborne  said, that he should also move that P. F. O'Mally, J. E. Sparrow, and John Clipperton, who had aided and abetted the witnesses in keeping out of the way, should also be taken into custody.
 Mr. Gisborne  suggested to his hon. Friend, the Member for Lancaster, that it might perhaps be right that he should state, what further steps he meant to take in regard to the representation of Ipswich?
 Mr. Gisborne  rose to make the Motion of which he had given notice; but if it seemed to be the opinion of the House that it should be postponed, he would consent to do so, although he did not see what advantage would be gained by pursuing such a course. He was surprised at the nature of the arguments adduced on the other side. Hon. Gentlemen had spoken as if he had moved that the persons named in the Report should be sent to Newgate, or be subjected to very severe punishment; but all that he proposed was, that they should be taken into the custody of the Serjeant-at-arms to answer for the conduct imputed to them by the Special Committee. The course he proposed was not unusual, for all accused persons, let the tribunal be what it might, were taken into custody before they were put on their defence. In the first place, they took possession of the person against whom the charge was brought, and he was brought into court. He denied that the precedents were all on the other side. How loud and eloquent he had heard the right hon. Baronet speak in favour of precedent, and yet he had disregarded it in the present case. The Select Committee, in performance of their duty, had made a report, and in it had alleged that these parties had been guilty of bribery. The evidence on which this report had been founded had been heard  vivâ voce 618
 Mr. Wakley  considered the Bill a compound of good and evil, and although he was disposed to give it his support in its present stage, it still required great alteration in the Committee. The great advantage which it would confer was said to be, that it declared the Coroner's Court to be hereafter an open Court. Now, how did it provide for that? Why thus—"And be it enacted, that every inquest to be held before any Coroner upon the body of any person shall be deemed to be an open Court, and the evidence of the witnesses, and the charge and direction of the Coroner, shall be delivered in, and all the proceedings shall be carried on in open Court; but nothing herein contained shall extend, or be construed to extend, to limit or control the power and authority of the Coroner to preserve order in the said Court, when in the judgment of the said Coroner the ends of public justice may require the exclusion of such persons from the said Court. [" Read on, read on. 627
 Mr. Blackstone  was anxious to set the House right on one point. The persons who had been alluded to had left the country before any petition had been presented to the House complaining of the election.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  rose, but there being cries for
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  being now called for, rose and said, that though this petition had been presented to the House as expressing the sentiments of the Protestants of the county of Down, he would venture to assert that it did not emanate from the Protestants of Down, nor express their sentiments. This same petition had been presented to the House of Lords as coming from 20,000 persons, and it now appeared that it only bore the signature of the High Sheriff. As seven months had elapsed since its adoption, surely more signatures might have been obtained for it, if it really expressed the sentiments of the great body of the Protestants and Presbyterians of Down. He was ready to accord to it all the weight and authority of the High Sheriff, whose name was affixed to it, but nothing more. This meeting was held at Hillsborough, on the verge of two other counties, Antrim and Armagh, and the place was obviously fixed on as being convenient for gathering together the Orangemen of those two counties, as well as the Orangemen of Down. If the meeting was intended to convey a fair expression of the feelings and opinions of the people of Down, why was it not held in the centre of the county, in the county town, where the county meetings were usually held? Two requisitions had been issued for calling tit is meeting—one came from the High Sheriff, the other from the grand dignitaries of the Orange lodges. The High Sheriff issued a requisition in the first place calling a meeting of Protestants. The Grand Orange Lodge of the county of Down at a meeting on the 6th of October passed a Resolution calling on all their brethren to attend the said meeting. Such being the avowed nature of the meeting, and such the requisitions calling it a large body of respectable Protestants in the county of Down, amounting to upwards of 200, and including ten Magistrates, published a protest assigning their reasons for not attending it. In that document they truly stated that it was highly unconstitutional on the part of a public officer, like a High Sheriff, to summon a
 594 595
 Mr. Sharman Crawford,  in explanation, denied that the petition was from the county of Down. There was a protest entered into against the meeting, which was published in the papers on the very same day that the resolutions agreed to at the meeting were published.
 Sir C. Burrell  moved for a Copy of the Treasury Minute, dated December 5, 1825, whereby Mr. James Walker, the late Crown Agent in Berbice, was dismissed from his office: and also, for a Copy of the Report of the Commissioners of Inquiry, and of the examination which accompanied that Report to the Colonial Secretary of State, under date the 13th of August, 1825, whereon the dismissal of the said Mr. James Walker from his office was founded.
 Sir George Grey  said, it would be very inconvenient to accede to the hon. Gentleman's Motion. Before it could be carried into effect Mr. Warrington must be written to, and the Session must pass before an answer could be obtained from Tripoli. He must add, that a corre-
 635
 Sir James Graham  said, he wished, on the Motion for going into a Committee on the Seamen's Enlistment Bill, to put a question to his noble Friend (Lord John Russell) relative to the Order of the Day for the committal of the Seamen's Enlistment Bill; and perhaps the House would pardon him, if in doing so, he stated some of the circumstances connected with the subject. The House would remember that in the course of the last Session of the former Parliament, the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Buckingham) moved a Resolution relative to Impressment. He, having at that time the honour of being one of his Majesty's confidential servants, considered it his duty to resist the resolution moved by the hon. Member; but in resisting it he announced, on the part of his Majesty's Ministers, that a Measure was in their contemplation, which he hoped would supersede the necessity for the hon. Gentleman's Motion. In redemption of the pledge he had given as a Minister of the Crown, he, in the commencement of the present Session, and in his individual capacity as a Member of that House, having no longer any connexion with the Government, brought forward a Measure, the principle of which was, first a statutory recognition of his Majesty's prerogative of Impressment in case of a declaration of war; and secondly, the extension of the principle that before recourse was had to compulsory means of manning the Navy, it should be tried whether voluntary enlistment, could not be induced by offering particular encouragement to the sailor, and removing many objections that had existed to the service. The hon. Member for Sheffield, he understood, agreed to the latter part of the proposition, but to the former he was decidedly opposed; and the hon. Member had, therefore, given notice, that on the Motion for this evening, that the House should resolve itself into Committee on the Seamen's Enlistment Bill, he should move that it be an instruction to the Committee to omit from the Bill every part of the same which might be intended
 622 pro formâ,
 The Attorney-General  thought, that the House should consider these persons to have placed themselves in the situation of having been already summoned. The Committee had reported, that they were of opinion, that these persons had absconded to avoid having the Speaker's warrant served on them. It was obvious that these persons must have known that they were to be summoned before the Committee. They must have known that they were material witnesses—they must have known that their evidence was of importance in enabling the Committee to arrive at a conclusion; it was, therefore,
 612
 The Attorney-General  reminded the hon. and learned Member, that the Magistrates in question were not appointed by the King, but by the Corporation of Norwich, in virtue of their office.
 The Attorney-General  was satisfied that it would be an extremely bad precedent to print the speeches of counsel. If they did so on one side, of course they must also do so on the other.
 Mr. Jervis,  while he adopted the principle of the Bill, thought that some amendments might be necessary. He thought that the office of Coroner should be more open to competition, and not left, as at present, to be occupied only by medical men and lawyers. It was also important to the country at large that the Coroner's Court should be an open Court, for which reason he should give the Bill his support. He should, however, oppose in the Committee that Clause which proposed the disfranchisement of the lower class of freeholders, in regard of voting at the election for Coroner.
 Sir Robert Bateson  said, that as having been one of those who had signed one of the requisitions to which allusion had been made, and as possessing a very considerable property in the country from which this petition emanated, he hoped the House would indulge him with their attention whilst he made a few observations: The cause of the meeting in question was simply this—that a great many of the Protestants of the county (and by the word Protestant he did not confine himself to those persons who professed to be members of the Established Church merely), a great many Protestants who protested against the fallacy of the Church of Rome, felt themselves aggrieved; they felt that even-handed justice was not dealt out to them—that their enemies were promoted before them—that their liberties and constitutional freedom were at stake, and they met constitutionally to protect themselves. With regard to the observations of the hon. Member for Dundalk (Mr. S. Crawford), who had ad-
 602 603 604
 Sir Robert Heron,  as Chairman of the Ennis Election Committee, said, that he had been directed by the Committee to report to the House, that the Committee had met that morning, but in consequence of the absence of General Palmer, one of the
 605
 Sir Robert Peel  remarked, that bad precedents were never so often set as when the cases which gave birth to them were on the unpopular side of the question; but he for one would never shrink from espousing what he believed to be the cause of justice, because his protestation might be attributed to a desire to prevent the detection and punishment of crimes. The House was not about to proceed to inquire into the absence of certain material witnesses, but they were, acting in a judicial capacity, about to assume that those persons were guilty. According to the argument of the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Member for Dublin), the process was not punitive; but had not the hon. Member for North Derbyshire expressly asserted their guilt, and therefore called for the Speaker's warrant to be issued against parties, of all whose guilt the House would declare itself convinced? He certainly admitted that the House was not bound by technical rules of evidence, but they were as much bound as any Magistrate. It was evident that he was speaking in the presence of many Gentlemen who thought it a light thing to assume the guilt of parties without hearing the evidence. The House, too, was about to inflict this punishment on the advice and opinion, not of the Committee, but of those who attended and heard the evidence given before them. He believed the Committee did not act in this
 619
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that it would be but justice to suspend all discussion upon the case until after the evidence and the minutes of the proceedings were before the House. The hon. Member for Derbyshire proposed to deprive the persons mentioned in this Report of their liberty, without any evidence being before the House. He would suggest, that they ought not to prejudge the case by such a course of proceeding. The hon. Member ought, either then, or on some future occasion, to give notice of the Motion which it was his intention to make. In his opinion the House ought not to exercise its authority in ordering these persons into custody without due consideration. The case of Stanbury, which had been alluded to was different from the present. Stanbury had been served with the Speaker's warrant to attend, and had afterwards absconded. Surely the House would not say, that the witnesses in the present case, who had never been served with the warrant, were upon the same footing with a person who had been served with the Speaker's warrant, and who had absconded in order that he might not be forced to obey it. At least before the House came to a resolution which involved the loss of liberty to the persons implicated, it ought to have some evidence before it to show under what circumstances the act of absconding had taken place. Was it certain that avoiding a Speaker's warrant was punishable? All that he asked was, that the House would give time for the consideration of the subject, and that it should not act upon the Report of any Committee, but upon evidence before it as to the guilt of parties, and the degree of punishment to which they should be subjected.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the noble Lord had misunderstood his meaning. He agreed with the noble Lord, that the House had a right to compel the attendance of witnesses; but what he doubted was, whether these persons could be considered in the character of witnesses, never having been served with a summons. They ought to remember that these persons had left the country before they had been served with a warrant, which they might perhaps be entitled to do. Let it be admitted that these persons did abscond, surely the general principle of law should prevail in this case. He was satisfied that the opinion of the hon. and learned Attorney-General was in unison with his own as to the law of the case, namely that in the case of a man—not summoned but against whom there was a strong presumption, that he had absconded to avoid being summoned, that the Courts of Law would not order him into custody.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  supported the Motion. He asked whether hon. Members would be in a better situation than at present to form an opinion on the subject if they had the evidence before them?
 Mr. Sergeant Wilde  said, he could not conceive how an adjudication of a Committee which had acted on the sanction of an oath—he could not conceive how, acting on the Report of such a Committee, which was to the effect that certain individuals had been guilty of certain acts,—could be called acting on an assumption of guilt: be should rather say that it was
 620
 Sir William Follett  could not but observe, that the subject under discussion ad no immediate reference to the question then before the House. The question
 613 614 615
 Lord Castlereagh  said, he seldom addressed the House, and he would not have trespassed so long on its attention on this occasion, but that the petition was a very important one.
 Lord Castlereagh  rose, pursuant to the notice which he had given, to present to the House a Petition which under any circumstances, would call for the serious attention of that House. The present times and the peculiar situation of Ireland rendered it, he must say, a duty incumbent on the part of that House to look at the expression of public feeling contained in this petition with earnest and grave attention; and however unwilling he was at any time, more especially on a hot day like that, to take up the time of the House, he feared he would not be discharging his duty if he did not trespass at some length upon their patience. The duty which he had undertaken was one of a most important nature, and never in his life had he experienced more pride than in being selected by so large a portion of his fellow-countrymen as the medium through which their opinions were to be conveyed to that House on a subject of such great importance as that to which the petition referred. The petition was from the county of Down on behalf of a meeting held in that county on the 30th of October last. The noble Lord said he wished to explain in the first instance why it was, that this petition had not been presented at an earlier opportunity. After it was adopted a dissolution of Parliament took place, and the new Parliament did not meet until February. It met, too, under circumstances very different from those under which the former Parliament sat, and
 589 590 591 592
 Lord Morpeth  said, as it was now impossible to stop the discussion, notwithstanding the laudable attempt of the Speaker, he would venture to make a few remarks, called for by what had fallen from the noble Lord, the Member for Down. Looking at the notice on the paper, he had concluded that the noble Lord would present the petition agreed to on the 30th of last October; but beyond giving his attendance from respect to an Irish subject, he (Lord Morpeth) had not expected that he should be required, in his official capacity, to take any part in the discussion. Nine months had passed since the meeting; and the petition was not directed against the present, nor the last, but against the antepenultimate go-
 600 601
 Lord Morpeth,  the noble Lord rose and said that he had only heard a portion of the noble Lord's speech, but that he was perfectly ready to answer the statements which the noble Lord made in his hearing respecting the Irish Government. He
 593
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he must do the hon. Member for St. Andrew's the justice to state that when he brought this subject forward he did it with courtesy of language, and from a strong sincere religious feeling; he differed from that hon. Member, but both were equally sensible of the solemn obligation of an oath. He (Mr. O'Connell) felt it his duty, then, not to let the matter rest, although the Attorney-General put the same construction upon the oath as he did. He thought it better not to suffer the question to rest, and had brought it before the House, in the shape of a motion to alter the oath. He was met by an almost unanimous declaration of the House, He considered what they
 660 661
 Mr. Charles Russell  protested against hon. Members having motives imputed to them. The hon. Member who had presented this petition had abstained from giving any opinion of his own on the subject; and all he had said was, that he believed the persons who had signed that petition to be highly respectable.
 Mr. O'Connell,  in explanation, observed it was quite true what the hon. Gentleman had stated with respect to the omission of the words "Civil and Ecclesiastical property" in the oath; but he wanted to know, would it be contended that he had not a right to legislate upon civil property—that he could not give a vote upon the administration of civil property? Was he to be precluded from voting upon tle administration of corporation property—upon fines and recoveries? Why, if he were to be precluded from voting upon civil as well as ecclesiastical property, he could have no business to do as a Member of that House—[ Cries of "Spoke."
 The Solicitor-General  agreed with the right bon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) that it was becoming and necessary in every proceeding like the present to act only upon the very best evidence which could be got. But for that very reason he thought it was better in the present case to depend upon the Report of the Committee, who heard the evidence orally delivered, and had an opportunity of observing the demeanour of the parties, than to trust to the mere reading of the short-hand notes taken by the reporter at those proceedings. This opinion was strictly in accordance with the
 672
 Lord Stanley  agreed with the right hon. Baronet that the proceedings proposed to be adopted in the first instance by the Member for Derbyshire were not borne out by the case he had quoted as a precedent. The House, certainly, in the case of the Grantham Election, had proceeded to hear the evidence read over before they ordered the parties to be taken into custody; but, as the right hon. Baronet admitted, they had the case of the Camelford Election which exactly bore on the matter before the House. He felt bound, therefore, under all the circumstances of the case, to agree to the resolution moved by the hon. Member for Derbyshire, but he would not have done
 673 * * 674
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that when he considered the speech and the Motion which the House had just heard, he could not but feel that the hon. Mover came forward rather for the purpose of discharging a duty which he might conceive due to his constituents and to his own consistency, than from any expectation that that which he proposed could be agreed to, or that any sacrifice to so large an amount could, under present circumstances, be made. In the present Session any further reduction of taxation was utterly impracticable. At an early period of the present Session the right hon. Baronet, who was his predecessor in the office of Chancellor of the Exchequer, had told the House, that there was no reason to expect a surplus of more than 250,000 l. l. 692 l.; l., l. l., 693
 Colonel Evans,  although he concurred in the objections to the tax which had been stated by the hon. Member for Mary-le-bonne, yet, after what had been stated by the right hon. Gentleman, hoped that he would withdraw his Motion. At the same time, he trusted, that if the right hon. Gentleman could concede any benefits, however small, to the class of householders, he would not fail to do so.
 Mr. Ruthven  would not leave the Government in the lurch by voting against it on this occasion; and although this tax was bad, others that might be substituted for it would be worse.
 Dr. Lushington  had endeavoured that day to present to the House a petition upon the subject then before it, in which his constituents, though favourable to the Motion, did not think it proper to press it upon Ministers in the present advanced state of the Session, and under other existing circumstances. His constituents only wished that their claims to relief should have a fair consideration with those of other classes of the community. They wished that Ministers would take off those taxes that pressed the most on national industry, and hoped that they never would be induced to invalidate the national credit.
 Mr. Wallace  said, he had never been so much surprised as when he saw the notice of the right hon. Baronet for a Committee of Inquiry, as the intention was thereby evident of wishing to prevent the information being obtained for which the Returns
 707 708
 Sir George Clerk  said, he had listened with great attention and with much disappointment to the speech of the learned Lord. With respect to the taunt thrown out against his right hon. Friend for not having brought forward a measure on this subject, the learned Lord had totally forgotten that this subject had formed one of the topics of his Majesty's Speech. His right hon. Friend (Sir R. Peel) had submitted a variety of measures to the House, which had met with a favourable reception; and in the Address to the Crown the House had pledged itself to take into consideration the state of the Church of Scotland, and the necessity of increasing the opportunities for religious worship to the poorer classes in Scotland. Could there be any ground, then, for the taunt of the learned Lord? The right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, had communicated many of his intended measures of Reform to the House, and he appealed to the House whether, if he had been prevented from proceeding in them, and from introducing others, by the great mass of business before the House, and by the loss of time occasioned by desultory conversations, the blame, if there were any, did not rest on the Gentlemen on the opposite benches. This was not the first time the subject had been brought before the House. In 1818 and in 1824 grants to the Church of Scotland had been proposed, though for certain reasons they had fallen to the ground. He regretted the tune of the learned Lord respecting the Established Church of Scotland, for the tone of his argument was fatal to the existence of all
 706
 Lord John Russell  did not rise to offer any opposition to the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman, he thought it calculated to forward the object which was so desirable, of rendering the funds of charities more applicable to the purposes for which they were originally intended. It was undoubtedly the case that after the lapse of so many years from the time when attention had been directed to the subject, they yet seemed to be far from attaining the object which they had in view. With reference to the second part of the Motion—that which referred to a more wise and economical administration of the funds—he would observe that although that was undoubtedly an important object, he wished to guard himself against being supposed to imply that by the words of the hon. and learned Gentleman's resolution the House would be understood to have agreed to any general plan at all inconsistent with the original will of the founders of the various charities which were in existence. He was glad on the whole that the hon. and learned Gentleman had brought forward his Motion. The hon. and learned Gentleman had shown sufficient grounds for its adoption, and for inducing him to give it his cordial support.
 Lord John Russell  thought that his hon. Friend, the Member for Derbyshire, had shown a sound discretion in leaving out the words which he had excluded from his Motion. He thought that it had been shown that the House had done well in taking a day to deliberate upon the subject, not only in order that they might have an opportunity of referring to former precedents, but that they might show that
 668
 Lord John Russell  was understood to suggest the inconvenience to public business by protracting this discussion.
 Mr. Pringle  rose to second the Motion. He said, that he felt that Scotland was entitled to ask that endowment which was proposed, on account of its important relation to this country; on account of the passage in his Majesty's Speech, which had been met by a desire on the part of that country to come forward with repeated subscriptions and meet the case. He trusted the cause would be very dear to Parliament. It was not often that Scotchmen pressed their affairs upon the attention of the House, and he assured the House that there was no subject which had ever come before it which was attended in that country with so much anxiety. It was of great importance that the House should know the amount which was asked. They maintained that it was the duty of every government to take care of the religious instruction of the poor. Now, the right hon. Baronet (Sir W. Rae) had shown that, in Scotland it was greatly deficient. They were willing to allow for that deficiency which the neglect of centuries had occasion-
 701 l., 702
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  hoped, after the personal allusion which had been made to him by the hon. and learned Member for Tipperary, the House would allow him to say one word. He had felt it his duty, during the last Parliament, to bring the oath taken by the Catholic Members before the House on two several occasions, and it was reckoned of so much importance, that, if he recollected well, the hon. and learned Member for Dublin brought forward the subject by a special motion on that occasion. He (Mr. Johnston) then stated, that he had the freedom to express his opinion on this very important question, and he agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, that if there was any doubt in the matter, the oath ought to be removed from the statute-book, so that no wrong interpretation might be put upon it by the country, or by the Roman Catholic Members of the House. He must, however, make this further observation; he did not admire the taste of the hon. Gentleman in bringing forward a matter in which he (Mr. Johnston) had been concerned. He could not see what reference the one question had to the other. But he would say, if he was to be bearded in that House upon a dispute which he had had with his constituents, he would call upon the hon. Member for Tipperary, if he was to be taunted on every occasion, he would call upon him, as he had called upon hon. Gentlemen opposite, to bring the matter before the House, and he would be ready to give an answer to any accusation which might be made. He had already offered his case to the House, and was quite willing to bring it before the House, if the House would allow him.
 Mr. Harvey  rose for the purpose of moving that, "a Select Committee be appointed to examine and consider the evidence, in the several Reports presented to this House, from the Commissioners appointed to inquire concerning Charities in England and Wales, and also the measures which may be most effectually adopted to complete, at an early period, the inquiry relative to uninvestigated Charities, to report their opinion by what mode the Charity-funds may be most efficiently, promptly, and economically administered." Those who had upon other occasions, had the good fortune to hear the subject of Public Charities discussed, and the vast importance of dispensing useful instruction to all classes of the community, enforced in the rich embellishments of language and the persuasive charms of oratory, by the distinguished man who had first brought the subject before Parliament, would easily understand the feeling which induced him to disclaim an appeal which required the aid of resources to which he had no pretensions. Nor was it his purpose to emulate, however much he admired, those schemes of universal benevolence in which the learned author of the Commission, into whose labours he proposed to examine, had repeatedly, and even of late largely indulged. His aim was far less aspiring, yet he would fain hope, not less useful. His object was to pass from learning to labour—from speculative fancies to facts—from reveries, to things which had been revealed. It was, indeed, time that something should be known of a Commission, the labours of which were spread over seventeen years, and that a practical character should be given them. It was full seventeen years since the distinguished individual to whom he had alluded—an individual who had merged the powers of a patriot in the accidents of a peerage—brought under the notice of the House the state of Public Charities in England and Wales, and procured the appointment of a Commission, into the successive Reports of which it was his object, or one of his objects to examine. Unfortunately that Commission was crippled in its cradle, and its efficacy was to a lamentable degree impaired. Even in this House the measure staggered under the blows of a concealed hostility; but in another House the seeds of derangement, and well high of death, were sown. It was
 676 677 678 l. l. l. l. 679 l. s. d. l. l. s. d. l. l. s. d. s. s. s. s. l. l. s. d.; l. 680 l. s. d. l. s. d.; l. l. l. 681 l. l. l. 682 l. l. 683 l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. l. l. l. 684 l. s. d. l. l. 685 l. 686
 Mr. Harvey  said, that the success of the inquiries of the Select Committee must materially depend upon the impartiality of the Members composing it. He should, therefore, defer the proposition for their nomination until he had consulted the noble Lord opposite (Lord John Russell) on the subject.
 Mr. Robinson  had objected to the repeal of the House-tax, because it tended to relieve some of the wealthy classes. For the same reason he objected to the repeal proposed at present, the effect of which would be to relieve some of the wealthiest inhabitants of the parishes of St. Mary-le-bonne, St. George's, and St. James's, who at present paid much less than they ought to do.
 The Speaker  remarked, that it was competent for a Select Committee appointed to inquire into the merits of a petition, in an election, to report to the House that certain parties had in its opinion
 671
 Mr. Fector  observed, that the people would now see who their friends were. As art independent man—no man was
 694
 Mr. Wilks  was happy to second the proposition, which embraced a subject to which he had for some time thought it would be his duty to call the attention of the House. There was evidently a necessity for the appointment of a Committee pledged—not indeed to act, but certainly to consider whether there might not be some summary proceeding by which parties would be enabled to obtain justice in the matter in question.
 Mr. Wilks  said, he had to present a Petition against the grant of public money to the Scotch Church, from the committee appointed by the three denominations of Dissenters in London and its neighbourhood. He thought that after what the petitioners had done, and the Protestant Dissenters with whom they were connected, and whom they represented, to promote the cause of public worship and religious education, they could not be suspected of indifference to those objects. To promote religion and religious worship, and advance religious education, those Dissenters had expended hundreds of thousands of pounds, therefore he was quite satisfied that they could not be accused or suspected of indifference to the subject, nor suspected of resisting any contemplated grant on the ground of the amount. They resisted the proposed grant on principle. They had ever held that the preference of one sect over another was persecution, and they therefore now declared, when it was proposed to make a grant in favour of a peculiar body of professing Christians, that they must protest against any such grant of public money to any body of Christians. They deemed it right to oppose such grants—and they would exert all the power and influence they might possess—to resist any such grants, whether they were to the Presbyterians of Scot-
 655
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  said, that, with regard to what had been said by the hon. Member for Derbyshire, as to its being usual for any Member, placed in the situation which he (Mr. Stewart) had the honour of occupying—that of Chairman of the Committee, to institute proceedings against parties implicated, he hoped it would be in the recollection of the House that on the previous night he had declined making any Motion, on the ground of his having no instructions upon the subject from the Committee, and that he left the subject to the determination of the House, and would abide by its decision. He had now to state that he would abide by the Report of the Committee, and that he had no doubt that every Member of the Committee was also ready to abide by it, and vote in favour of the Motion of the hon. Member.
 Mr. Patrick Stewart  also wished to remark, that, as the Chairman of the Committee, he had always understood that Mr. Kelly appeared as a lawyer, and not as a party in the case.
 Mr. Sheil,  though he agreed with the Chair that these discussions should be avoided on the presentation of a petition, yet he must, at the same time, as one of the Members of that House to whom this petition referred, express his disapprobation of it, as it conveyed almost an accusation of perjury, upon a large number of the Members of that House, against not less than thirty-five persons, who were exposed to that imputation. He trusted that the House would feel that such indulgence ought to be extended to him, whilst he shortly remonstrated against the course which had been adopted; and whilst he called upon those who assented to the opinions of the petitioners, to take, he would not say a bolder course, but one of a more candid character. He would not be caried away into a state of excitement, or use a tone of language which should display any acrimony; but, in a spirit truly Christian, he called upon hon. Members on the other side of the House, who had recourse to this expedient to excite a feeling against the Roman Catholic body, at once to bring forward a Bill to have the oath taken by the Roman Catholic Members explicitly determined. Will you do so?" said the hon. and learned
 657 "Hear!"
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that the county he represented was unanimous in favour of the grant, and he coincided in their opinion, deeming it fitting that a grant should be made. The support of religion in a country drew after it the necessity of supporting an Establishment; and the principle of this Motion involved the question between those who were for a Church Establishment, and those who were against it. He should vote in favour of the Amendment, not for the purpose of throwing cold water on the subject; but as the facts of the case were disputed, they must be decided to the satisfaction of the country; and he was convinced they could not be so decided by means of a Committee of the House of Commons. He thought that the appointment of a Commission would be a better mode of arriving at the truth.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  observed, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer said, that he could not afford to give up the Window-duty. The right hon. Gentleman should first see if his victims could afford to pay it. He rather ought to borrow money than continue such a duty. As to national faith, he did not believe that the repeal of the duty would be inconsistent with national faith; and was not the national faith pledged to the tradesman and the farmer as well as to the fund holder? National faith!—he called it public plunder. National faith!—he called it national shame and disgrace. If justice were not done to the people on that subject by the House, the people would do it for themselves. Others besides the fund holders were entitled to the protection of the Legislature; but neither the farmer had been protected, nor the labourer. Neither had landowner been better off, although he had been deluded by one corn-law after another, which had all ended, instead of protecting him, in swindling him out of his estate. The Chancellor of the Exchequer miglt be assured that he could better afford to abandon the tax than the trades-people could afford to pay it.
 Mr. Gisborne  observed, that after what had been stated, he would not propose to proceed against the Magistrates before the evidence was printed.
 Mr. Gisborne  observed that he had stated last night the course which he intended to pursue with respect to those magistrates, and with the permission of the House he would repeat what he had then said. He hoped that the House would agree with him that the case of the Magistrates was very different from that of the persons whose names were included in the resolution he had proposed, and that hon. Gentlemen would not oppose the present motion in consequence of the course he intended to pursue with respect to the Magistrates. He did not intend to propose that the same course should be pursued with respect to the Magistrates as to the other persons implicated by the Report of the Committee. The only reason which induced him to make this variation in the course of his proceedings, was that there was a difference in the words of the Committee with regard to them and the other persons. The Report directly implicated the conduct of the persons named in his resolution, but it stated that the Magistrates appeared to the Committee to be guilty of a breach of the privileges of this House. The Committee did not say that it was an actual breach of privilege, or in what degree it was a breach. Now he did not intend to propose that the course which he thought was unavoidable with regard to the other persons—namely, that they should be taken into the custody of the Serjeant-at-Arms—should be pursued towards the Magistrates, but the Magistrates should be called to the Bar to explain their conduct in this matter. He belived that this would remove the objection of the right hon. Baronet.
 Mr. Gisborne  said, that in rising to move that the Order of the Day for the further consideration of the Report of the Ipswich Committee be now read, he was aware that he had no claim again to address the House, but he hoped that he should be indulged while he made a few remarks, which he should endeavour to make as brief as the nature of the subject allowed.
 Mr. Gisborne  thought it necessary to make a few remarks in consequence of the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir Robert Peel) having, on the previous night, said, that if he (Mr. Gisborne) could come down to the House, armed with the precedents for the plan which he proposed, the right hon. Baronet should not feel disposed to oppose his motion. Now it so happened that he came down, certainly not armed with many precedents, for he had been able to find but one precedent upon this point in existence; and he had to state, that he had come to the conclusion that there was only the one case—not on his own judgment and research alone—but after consulting with several gentlemen who had the best opportunities of knowing if any other precedents existed or not. The fact was, it was well known that in many cases the parties had absconded in order to avoid the Speaker's warrant; but it was a point very difficult to be brought home to the delinquents; and he, with the assistance of those gentlemen to whom he had already alluded, had been able to discover but one single case, and that had been alluded to last night by the right hon. Baronet, which bore directly upon the present case. The case to which he referred was that of Camelford, in which William Hallett was taken into custody on the ground of his having absconded to avoid being served with the Speaker's warrant. That was a case completely in point; and in all its circumstances completely analogous with the case of the parties who had absconded to avoid being served with the Speaker's warrant in the present instance. The difference drawn last night between the cases by the late Solicitor-general and another hon. Member, appeared to be perfectly untenable. They argued that a distinction was to be drawn between the parties who
 664 * * 665 666 667
 Mr. Wyse  said, that although not so nearly connected as the hon. Mover and his hon. Seconder with the subject under consideration, he must express his sympathy with them under the circumstances connected with the Motion. The great evil was not only the misapplication of the funds, but the encouraging a system of education totally inadequate to the present state of knowledge. It was obvious
 687
 Mr. Finn  asked how it had occurred that this question of the Roman Catholic oath had never been brought under discussion until after the thirty-five Catholic Members decided the fate of the late Administration? On the discussion of the Vestry-cess, no question was raised upon it. But the fact was, that there had been a majority of ten on the Speakership, of seven on the Address to the Crown, and of twenty-seven on the Irish Church Resolution, which caused the dismissal of one Administration and restored another to power; and this was the secret of this animosity. The right hon. Baronet, who conducted the Roman Catholics' Disabilities Renewal Bill, when called upon by Sir Charles Wetherell to exclude Roman Catholics from voting on Church questions, answered that he did not wish to see the Roman Catholics in that House placed on a different footing from others with reference to their power to exercise their opinions and votes upon all occasions; and that right hon. Gentleman had never receded from that declaration; and though he had been taunted with having become a convert to Roman Catholic Emancipation, he had never meddled with the oath. He would mention an instance of the partial manner in which this subject was treated. Mr. Blount some time since published in the  Morning Chronicle, Morning Post Morning Herald.
 Mr. Gillon  said, he could not assent to the appointment of either a Committee or a Commission to inquire into this subject, without giving up a great principle, which he was by no means inclined to surrender. He conceived it to be utterly un-Christian in principle, and unjust in practice, to burden the members of one persuasion for the advancement either of the spiritual doctrines or the worldly emoluments of those of another. He was, therefore, inclined to meet the question by a direct negative. The right hon. Baronet had stated a deficiency of 30,000 in church accommodation at Glasgow; but in this statement he had altogether omitted the mention of 35,000 Roman Catholics, who would not accept of Protestant ministrations were they offered to them. When they were deducted, an actual surplus of accommodation would appear in Glasgow. After alluding to similar statistical returns regarding Edinburgh, he observed that he was far from denying that too many absented themselves altogether from the ordinances of religion; but how was this evil to be met? By sending Missionaries to instruct and convert the people, not by building more churches, while those already built were standing empty. But it was said that you must have more parishes and more endowed clergymen. In his opinion men, provided with endowments, were the least likely to display that zeal and diligence which ought to be the distinguishing characteristics of a Missionary in such a cause. The fact was, the clergy of the Established Church, who, from the mode of their appointment by patronage, and a degree of remissness on their part, had become unpopular, were now jealous of the progress made by Dissenters, and this was an attempt to put them down at the public expense. To show that this was the  animus 709
 Mr. William S. O'Brien  said, he really thought that those Gentlemen who, on the presentation of such petitions as these, gave a cheer, and thereby conveyed their assent to the sentiments contained in such petitions, ought to come before the House and propound some resolution respecting the oath taken by the Irish Roman Catholic Members, rather than pursue their present mode of conveying the sentiments of their constituents in that House, on a question of vital importance to numerous representatives. He remembered the Debate on the Roman Catholic Relief Bill in that House, and he also recollected that when a proposition was then made that Roman Catholics should not vote on questions connected with the affairs of the Church, it was scouted; and for his own part, if he were a Roman Catholic, he would not take a seat on those terms. He entreated hon. Gentlemen who avowed their advocacy of them to bring the whole subject fairly before the House.
 Mr. Ormsby Gore  presented a Petition from certain persons of the town of Oswestry, in the county of Salop, against the appropriation of any part of the revenues of the Church of Ireland to any other than strictly Ecclesiastical purposes. The petitioners further prayed that the oath now taken by Roman Catholic Members of Parliament on taking their seats might be so altered, that they should be incapacitated from voting on questions relative to the Church. They further urged that by their present oath the Roman Catholics swore not to
 656
 Mr. Ormsby Gore  regretted this discussion, nor did he intend to have said any thing which should militate against the good feeling of the House. He had been taunted for having brought, forward this petition, which was adverse to the interests of Ireland. Ireland was the country of his forefathers; and he would not yield to any one of the 100 Members for Ireland in his attachment to, and anxiety for, the welfare of that part of the kingdom. He would state, which he was sure would not be disputed by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, that in the debate upon the passing of the Catholic question, words relating to the security of civil and ecclesiastical property, which had been proposed to be inserted in the oath, were omitted; and the ground taken by those who opposed their insertion was, that as civil property was guarded, so was ecclesiastical property; and the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel), in opposing the proposition of the learned Member who brought forward such a Resolution, stated that it would be raising a distinction between ecclesiastical and civil property. Surely the hon. and learned Member for Dublin would not contend that, according to the words of his oath, he had a right to
 662
 Captain Pechell  said, that although Brighton was the fifth town in the kingdom in the amount of the Window-tax it paid, he was sure his constituents had too much confidence in Ministers, and too little in their opponents, not to wait with patience for the relief which could be afforded them. He should, therefore, vote against the Motion.
 The Attorney-General  considered that, from the nature of his office, it might be expected that he should offer a few words on the subject of the Motion of the hon. Member opposite. He entertained no feelings of difficulty in expressing his entire satisfaction in the course pursued in moving for the appointment of the Committee. The seed was sown, and it should not be for want of any exertion on his part that the country failed to reap the harvest. During the labours of the Commission that had issued upon the subject of charities, he had used all his influence to bring in Bills as the inquiry pro-
 688
 The Attorney-General  said, that he had been called upon last night by the right hon. Baronet to give his opinion as to the relative guilt of persons absconding from the service of the Speaker's warrant, and those who had had it served upon them and yet had not obeyed it. He remarked, on the spur of the moment, that he saw little difference in the magnitude of the offence. At that time he was not aware of the Camelford case, and of having the high authority of the late Speaker to support his opinion. In the matter now before the House, a  prima facie
 Mr. Jervis  wished, before the question was put, to say a few words respecting an hon. and learned Gentleman who, by the decision of the Committee, was no longer a Member of the House, and, therefore, was unable to answer for himself. Many allusions had been made to a Speech delivered by Mr. Kelly before the Committee, but he was authorized by that Gentleman to say, that when he then spoke he appeared merely as an advocate, and he wished it distinctly to be understood that he only addressed the Committee in that capacity. He felt bound to say thus much in justification of the Gentleman he had alluded to, and he did it the more readily as they were political opponents.
 Mr. Montague Chapman  begged to remark, as a member of the Committee, that it did not give a decided opinion on the subject, but merely stated that it appeared to the Committee to be a breach of privilege. If it were not a case of breach of privilege, it at least was a case of gross negligence and inattention to the orders of the House. The conduct pursued had occasioned great delay and inconvenience to the Committee. There certainly was a difference in the amount of guilt of the persons named in the resolution. Two of the persons, namely, Dasent and Pilgrim, had given evidence before the Committee. The former individual had come forward to give evidence after some delay before the Committee, while the latter, who had given the most important evidence, had been taken into custody. He trusted that the House would not pursue these persons with the same measure of severity as they did the others.
 Sir Robert Bateson  said, that having been one of those Members who had dared to cheer, as an independent Member, and as a man not ashamed of what he cheered in that House, he must protest against the tone and language of the hon. and learned Gentleman, which were neither courteous nor parliamentary. In his opinion, freedom of language and freedom of debate were alike the privilege of every hon. Member; and he would tell the House, and the hon. Member too, that he had conscientiously cheered, because he agreed in the sentiments which were em-
 658
 Sir Robert Peel  was by no means satisfied that the House would be justified in calling upon the Magistrates to attend in this way. The hon. Gentleman might have some precedent for the course which he intended to pursue. He, however, wished to know, on the authority of the Chair, whether there was any instance in which the House had allowed any other tribunal than itself to judge or decide what was a breach of privilege.
 Sir Robert Peel  said the point then was, whether the House should pay so much regard to the opinion of this Committee as to act upon it in this case? He would not, however, mix this with the other case. They ought to have something like a  primâ facie
 Sir Robert Peel  rejoiced at the delay which had taken place in coming to a decision upon this Question, and he was sure that there was no one in the House who would more sincerely rejoice at the delay than the hon. Member for Derbyshire himself, as it gave him the opportunity of making two important alterations in his Motion. He had contended that the House ought not to prejudge the case of these persons; and the hon. Member, acting upon that feeling, had omitted from his Motion the words "for these their alleged offences," thereby as far as possible avoiding the appearance of prejudging their case. Another alteration which the hon. Member had made was, that he did not now except any of those persons who were mentioned as guilty in the Report of the Committee from the effect of his Motion, but very properly included the whole. In both these points he thought that the hon. Member had materially improved his Motion. In the case of Camelford no charge was specified in bringing Hallett to the Bar; and the hon. Member, therefore, was in exact conformity with that precedent in omitting the words to which he had alluded. Considering also the terms in which the Speaker had addressed Hallet—and the Speaker was undoubtedly a high authority—he considered that the hon. Member was also justified in the course he had followed in that respect. Yet he could not help thinking, upon the whole, that it would be more satisfactory if the House heard the evidence before they ordered those persons into custody. And they had a precedent for that course. In the Grantham case, when a Motion was made that upon the Report of the Committee the person who absconded in order to avoid being served with the Speaker's
 669 animus 670
 Sir Samuel Whalley  thought the gratitude of the inhabitants of Mary-le-bonne would not be so warm towards the hon. Member for Dover, when they learnt the party to which he belonged, as it otherwise might have been; and, notwithstanding that hon. Member's support, he trusted he should be allowed to withdraw his Motion.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  rose, pursuant to notice, for the purpose of moving a resolution declaring it to be the opinion of the House that it was expedient to repeal the Tax on Windows. In submitting the grounds upon which he brought forward the present Motion, he would begin by observing, that though there was no greater surplus expected in the present year than 250,000 l., l. 689 690 691 l.,
 Sir William Rae  rose to move that the several Petitions which had been presented respecting the Endowment and Extension of Churches in Scotland be referred to a Select Committee. He assured the House that this subject had produced a very great sensation in Scotland. The petitioners felt it their duty to appeal to the Legislature with regard to it, finding from the silence hitherto observed that his Majesty's Government were not inclined to take it up. The right hon. Gentleman observed, that the number of the petitions (upwards of 300) was a proof of the interest taken in the subject, in that country. He himself had all along felt a most anxious desire for the discussion of the subject; and, so far as he could, he had given his poor aid and advice, to bring the matter under the consideration of the House. He thought he was not the less qualified to do so, as he happened not to be a member of that Church; and, therefore, in Scotland, a Dissenter, his anxiety thus would be free from any suspicion. The petitions which had come from Scotland were not the only circumstances, however, which proved the deep interest taken in that country for the success of the motion. In addition to their unexampled number, the petitioners had proved their attachment to the Church by the unexampled subscription of 65,000 l. 696 s., 697 
 
 1807 67 1831 3,950 
 1808 77 1832 
 1809 86 1833 1,898 
 1810 112 1834 2,711 698 l., 699 l. 700 l.
 The Lord Advocate  said, that after the statement of crime in Scotland, made by his right hon. and learned Friend, and after the opinion he had given of the importance of supplying the people of Scotland with buildings for religious instruction, it was surprising that he had not brought forward the subject long since. If it was of such a pressing nature, why did he let the first, second, or third week of the Session pass over without introducing his Motion, instead of waiting until the present time to do so? His right hon. Friend had said, that the opinion he had given was the result of long thought, and yet he had not introduced the subject before; but expressed his surprise that his Majesty's Ministers, after so many petitions had been presented to the House, did not come forward with some measure. Why had not the right hon. Gentleman come forward with the Motion before the present Ministers came into power? The right hon. and learned Baronet had dwelt with great pride and satisfaction upon the number and respectability of the petitions which had been presented to the House relative to the building and endowing of places of worship connected with the established Church of Scotland, and had urged that as a reason why the petitions should be referred to a select Committee. Now, to that he would reply, that considering the extraordinary exertions which had been made in every pulpit in Scotland, he was surprised that, instead of having 382 petitions on the subject, they had not had presented to them as many petitions as there were parishes in that country. It ought also to be recollected that there was a great number of petitions on the other side, which came from persons differing from the members of the established Church of Scotland, not in doctrine or in morals, but only in Church Government, and that that circumstance introduced no small difficulty into the decision of the question, whether a pecuniary grant ought to be made for the purposes advocated by the right hon. and learned Gentleman. He did not deny the importance of the Question which the right hon. and learned Baronet had raised: but how was it to be de-
 703 704 705
 Mr. Fowel Buxlon  took the opportunity of asking the Under-Secretary for the Colonies whether any measures had been taken to prevent the payment of compensation for slaves illegally imported into the Island of Mauritius?
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that it was by no means desirable that the idea should go forth that it was the intention of Government to come forward, as it would prevent the gentry of the country from exerting themselves.
 Lord Stanley  was glad to find himself anticipated in the observations he had intended to make on this case by his noble Friend. He did think, that if a case of this kind were lightly passed over, it would be so far, in his opinion, an abandonment of those privileges which it was their duty to support, and of that purity of election which they should be so desirous to maintain. He was, however, afraid that the present proceedings were characterized by too much haste. When it was considered that they had ordered persons into the custody of the Serjeant-at-Arms, and yet when the first person was brought to their Bar, they were about to reverse their proceedings, and without further inquiry to discharge him, he submitted they were setting a precedent which must be most mischievous, and likely to be attended with the worst effects. The proceedings of that day proved the impolicy
 731
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he could not agree in the view taken of the prisoner's mitigated offence. The House should not sacrifice justice to this mock clemency. They could not dismiss him from the Bar without his atoning for his first absence, by his dis. closing all the cases of bribery he was guilty of, and his telling the House all the parties he corrupted, and all the money he paid away. But if he were a person who took advantage of the privilege and impunity the law gave him, and the law gave too much scope to such characters, by suppresssing important facts, lest he might criminate himself, and mar the objects of his friends or employers, the sitting Members, then his conduct was not such as the House should wink at. The prisoner was a lawyer, the tendency and bias of whose profession led him to support particular parties. He knew lawyers had these leanings. He himself was a lawyer, yet he would say, that he never leant to any party. This was a question that should be sifted. If it were not sifted, and that deliberately and rigidly, there could be no hope that the purity of election would be preserved. The prisoner was guilty of a grave offence, and to prevent the recurrence of such misdeeds, and inflict condign punishment on the parties implicated in the present transaction, it was positively necessary for the dignity of the House, and the defence of the freedom of election, that there should be a complete sifting of the case.
 Dr. Lushington  said, the question was one of vast importance to the House, as affecting its privileges, and to the country, as affecting the right of the people to choose, without restraint or fear, their own Representatives. If it were a good that the purity of election should be preserved, then it was a good that any invasion on it should be punished. An invasion, then, was clearly proved to be committed in the present case, and the House, in its duty to the public, should not overlook it. Before the passing of the Reform Bill, bribery was so common and undisguised, that it might be thought, and was thought, an act of injustice to visit a few with the penalties of the delinquencies of the many. What was publicly practised was considered no crime, and the universality of the practice gave a shelter and impunity to the few who were detected. But this kind of screening of guilt should be put a stop to. It appeared to him that the question of the prisoner's guilt should be put a stop to. It appeared to him, that the question of the prisoner's guilt was not treated by some hon. Members with sufficient severity. Their leniency of conduct was unfair to the people of England, who looked to fair representation, and the rigid discharge of duty from their representatives. Was it because the prisoner was cognizant of his guilt, and anxious to screen himself from the consequences of it, that the House should now extend to him its indulgence, and so strike a blow at the existence of its own privileges? He (Dr. Lushington) was never so surprised as he was at hearing it maintained that, after a man was called to the Bar for a breach of the privileges of the House, he should be discharged, with no other punishment than a reprimand, and that after he had been avowedly guilty of a serious offence. Such a proceeding was a mockery of justice. The eyes of the people were now open— and if ample justice were not dealt out to those who violated the freedom and purity of election it would cause general offence and dissatisfaction throughout the country.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  could not help saying, that he considered that the absence of the hon. Members, to which his hon. Friend, the Member for Worcester, had referred, arose not from any disrespect to him, but wholly from the circumstances, that as Gentlemen had already considered the matter and come to a determination, they were not prepared to accompany him to those conclusions which he had urged upon the House. Before he argued the case, he hoped his hon. Friend would allow him to set himself right with him and those hon. Members who had heard his speech, as to the difference between the course which
 753 754 l. 755 756 l. Robinson: 757 758 de heretico comburendo 759
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer , in explanation, begged to say, that the hon.
 761 l. l.
 Mr. Harves  said, that he had always yielded to the force of the arguments which were urged in favour of his hon. Friend's Motion, but that if he required any additional reasons in support of it, he need only look to the speech made by the right hon. Gentleman in opposition to it. It should be borne in mind that the Motion was one simply for inquiry, and that it did not involve the necessity of carrying into effect any recommendations of the Committee appointed to inquire. Many suggestions had been made by the Excise Commissioners which had not been carried into effect; the Reports containing them had been printed, and it did not appear that the interests of trade had suffered any injury in consequence of their being made public, or from their creating any uncertainty such as that of which the right hon. Gentleman spoke, and which he had so much deprecated; because it was well known that it was not a matter of necessity that the suggestions of the Commissioners should be adopted. If reference were made to the taxes which had been remitted since the close of the war, it would be found that those which had been first repealed were those which pressed upon property, and, secondly, those which pressed upon land. If a Committee of Inquiry had been appointed to examine the subject at the commencement of the peace, no recommendation would ever have been made suggesting such a preference. He would only say, in conclusion, that he had heard nothing in the speech of the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) which could induce him to alter the course which he had adopted with respect to the former Motion of his hon. Friend on this subject, and he should, therefore, give his earnest support to his proposition for a Committee.
 Mr. Goulburn  did not rise to prolong the present discussion, and was only induced to offer an observation in consequence of what had just fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had last addressed the House. He must, however, first remark that he still retained the same opinion in regard to the subject of a Property-tax which he had expressed on the occasion of the discussion on the motion of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. P. Thomson) in 1830, and as he resisted such a motion as the present then, so should he resist the motion of the hon. Member for Worcester now. He stated at that time his views of the consequences that must result from acceding to such a motion as that for the appointment of a Committee so inquire into the general taxation of the country. He had then stated the strong feeling he entertained as to the confusion which must ensue from a return to the system of a Property-tax. He had then alluded to, and pointed out, the speculations which would arise, and the losses to which every class of the trading community would be subjected owing to the uncertainty as to what tax would be repealed and what continued, until the system was brought to a final settlement. He retained those sentiments still, and in conformity to them he should oppose the present Motion, as he had done that propounded in 1830 by the right hon. Gentleman opposite. It had been said that the present Motion was distinct from a Property-tax; but such clearly was not the fact, because every hon. Member who had spoken upon it dwelt on it as connected directly with a Property-tax. The hon. Member for Tynemouth had contended that when the question of the repeal of the Property-tax was under the consideration of Parliament, it was carried by the influence of the wealthy and rich portions of the community. This he denied, for he well remembered that the agitation of the question did not originate with those who were usually termed the rich aristocracy of the country, but with an individual who
 768
 Mr. Pryme  objected to a grant on such grounds. Why should a local purpose be paid for out of the general funds? In England, where an undertaking of that nature was beneficial, capitalists were always ready to undertake it. If not beneficial, it ought not to be undertaken at all.
 Mr. Ruthven  supported the grant. He would not grudge 300,000 l.
 Mr. Chapman  supported the Motion. It was to be placed in the same category as the Breakwater at Plymouth.
 Mr. Francis Baring  agreed in the principle of the hon. and gallant Member's suggestion, but could not, without more consideration agree to the amount of space he had named; but if he would leave the matter in his hands, he pledged himself that a proper proportion of free seats should be reserved.
 Mr. Francis Baring  said, that the estimate was framed for the purpose of fitting up the interior as a chapel; what would be the expense or utility of fitting it up as a banquetting-hall he did not know.
 Mr. Francis Baring  said, that the actual estimate for the buildings was only 30,000 l.
 Mr. Francis Baring  assured the hon. Member (Mr. Curteis) that if he would call for the accounts he would see that he was in error as to the supposed extravagant nature of the charges.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  admitted the inconvenience spoken of by the hon. Member; but, under all the circumstances, he thought no fault could attach to the Government, whether the present or any other, either on that account or on account of the expenses. The necessity of providing immediate accommodation to the two Houses of Parliament, put every other consideration out of view. The gentleman who superintended the restoration of the buildings was a man in whom the greatest confidence could he placed.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  begged to remind the hon. Gentleman that notice had already been given of a motion for an address to the Crown on that subject.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the Members of the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge paid three times more to the public in the shape of taxes than they received as grants.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the question of the claims of the Dissenters to University privileges, to which he was decidedly favourable, was in his opinion too large and important a Question to be decided incidentally by a vote of this nature.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet was a good one. It was certainly important that such a Bill be deliberately and dispassionately considered, and the more fairly the Committee was selected, the more likely was it that it would receive just deliberation. He thought it better that the appointment of the Committee on the present Bill should be postponed.
 Mr. Goulburn  thought this Committee too numerous, it was almost a Committee of the whole House.
 Mr. Cressett Pelham  thought that if the
 762
 Lord Granville Somerset  said, that it had been used as a chapel from the time of the burning down of the original Whitehall-hall chapel in the reign of William 3rd. and its having been lately shut up, had been a great inconvenience to the respectable inhabitants of the vicinity. A larger estimate than the sum moved for had been given in to the Treasury, for which more ornamental improvements would be obtained, and he regretted that it was not proposed to grant the largest sum.
 Lord John Russell  observed, that besides the other offences with which the petitioner stood charged, was that of being guilty of bribery; and yet it was declared that he came forward from a sense of honour towards the sitting Members, to acquit them of being connected with those transactions. They ought to put out of the question whether the petitioner had been guilty of bribery; but the fact which the petitioner made the ground of his merits was, that he felt more of honour and regard for the sitting Members, than he felt for the dignity of that House. Thus it was his regard for the sitting Members which made him abscond; but when he was informed that his presence could be useful to them, he came forward as a witness. Personally his conduct might be exceedingly honourable as between him and the sitting Members; but as regarded that House, his conduct had been such, that there could be no sort of justification for calling him to the Bar and dismissing him. He did not wish to see any severe punishment inflicted upon the petitioner. He should be glad if he was brought to the Bar upon Monday, and in the mean time they might determine what course it would be proper to pursue, and what line of conduct they ought to adopt consistently with a regard to their own dignity and the maintenance of their own privileges. He could only say that if they did adopt a lenient course towards the petitioner, one consideration at least ought to influence them in doing so, and that was the petitioner's extreme ignorance of the law.
 Major Beauclerk  said, he would object to the grant, if the chapel were not made accessible to the poor of the vicinity. He would suggest, that half of this chapel, which was to be fitted up from the public funds, should be devoted to free seats for the poor.
 Major Beauclerk  had no objection to leave the matter in the right hon. Gentleman's hands.
 Colonel Perceval  said, if the Bill was to be referred to a Select Committee it should not be a one-sided Committee.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  would say, in answer to an observation of the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Hawes), that little had been stated on the part of his Majesty's Government during the debate which would have the effect of changing his opinion as to the propriety of acceding to the Motion of the hon. Gentleman opposite(Mr.Robinson), that an obvious reason existed for not meeting the hon. Gentleman's Motion at greater length, namely, the concurrence of the Members of the Government in one of the objects, at least, of the hon. Member's proposition—relief to the industrious classes. If any hon. Gentleman doubted the intention of Ministers to diminish the burdens of the people, to look at the whole question of taxation with an anxious desire to adjust it in such a manner as that it should press as lightly as possible on productive industry —he would refer him to their conduct during the five years in which they had held office as a pledge of what they were anxious to effect for the future. On that ground alone, namely, the undoubted intention of the Government to effect every possible reduction of taxation, he would oppose the Motion for a Committee of Inquiry into general taxation. The hon. Member for Lambeth had said, that no difficulties would arise, and that no embarrassments in trade would take place, by the appointment of a Committee, because no such effects having resulted from the inquiries and reports of the Excise Commissioners; but he would remind those who used that argument, that the greatest difference existed between a Commission issued by Government, and acting under their directions to inquire into different branches of its revenue, and a Committee of that House carrying with its appointment the weight and authority which were necessarily attached to such a body. The chief and ostensible object of the Motion before the House appeared to be the imposition of a property-tax. He could not help expressing a regret that the hon. Mover, the Member for Worcester, had not explained to the House what he meant by the phrase Property-tax. He was de-
 763 764 Hawes: 765 l. l.
 Mr. Tulk  regarded the charges as much too high. A splendid and magnificent building had been recently erected in Birmingham, capable of affording every possible accommodation for a larger number of people, than to the Members of both Houses of Parliament, at an expense not exceeding 22,000 l.
 Mr. Christopher Fitzsimon  said, all the other persons mentioned in the resolutions of the Committee were evidently engaged in a conspiracy to set the House at defiance, and foil the ends of justice; but the prisoner at the Bar was undoubtedly an exception, for he freely came forward, and declared all he knew.
 Mr. Fitzstephen French  said, that if any money were advanced by the Government, it ought ultimately to be levied upon the landlords, for if the Government advanced it without some provision of that kind, the landlords would contribute nothing.
 Mr. French  thought that if the charges were extravagant, the present Government at least could not be blamed for it.
 Mr. Robinson  said, he was fully aware how much the attention of the House had been engrossed by other important subjects, and he could assure it that if he did not feel himself impelled by an imperative sense of public duty to submit the Motion of which he had given notice relative to taxation, he should even now, shrink from the task which he had undertaken under the discouraging circumstances which attended its performance. He begged, however, to remind the House that the subject to which he was about to call its attention was not taken up by him as an isolated individual. In 1830, it was brought under the consideration of the House by one of the present Ministers, the President of the Board of Trade; and though the Administration as a body might not be disposed to view his proposition with any great degree of favour, he must be excused for reminding them that with the exception of the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs every one of the Ministers who had seats in the House supported the Motion submitted by the right hon. President of the Board of Trade, in 1830, which was in substance exactly similar to that with which he intended to conclude. It would be for those hon. Persons to account for any change which might have taken place in their opinions upon this subject. He begged further to say, lest it should be the opinion of any Members of this House that he was persevering pertinaciously in soliciting the attention of the House to this subject, that when, in 1833, he brought forward a similar Motion, it received the support of no less than 157 Members totally unconnected with him by party or other considerations; whilst, on the other hand, though opposed by the influence of the Government, only 220 Members voted against it. That circumstance, alone, was sufficient to Justify him in again calling the attention of the House to the important subject of the taxation of the country. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, under Lord Grey's Administration, not only supported the Motion of the right hon. President of the
 736 737 738 The more general considerations, to which I now claim the attention of the House, are these: first, that no other country in Europe has so large a proportion of its taxation bearing directly upon the incomes of labour and productive capital;—secondly, that in no other country of the same extent—I think I might say in none of five times the extent of this kingdom, is there so large a mass of income belonging to those classes who do not directly employ it in bringing forth the produce of labour;—thirdly, that no other country has so large a proportion of its taxation mortgaged; in proportion to the amount of that mortgage are we interested in any measure which, without injustice to the mortgagee, would tend to lessen the absolute burthen of the mortgage;— fourthly, that from no other country in the world does so large a proportion of the class not engaged in production (including many of the wealthy) spend their incomes in foreign parts. I know I may be told, that by taxing that income, you run the risk of driving them to withdraw their capital altogether. My answer is, first, that ninety-nine out of 100 of these absentees have no such command over the source of their income; secondly, that the danger is now of another and more alarming
 739 If at any future day a sense of public interest should induce his Majesty's Government to act upon these views, I shall be prepared to give my most cordial assistance and support towards overcoming the various difficulties which I am fully sensible must arise in carrying those views into effect, and towards conciliating the feelings of all those who might continue averse to their adoption.† Hansard, vol. xxiii. (new series) p. 604. Ibid, p. 606. 740 In proposing that the whole taxation of the country be taken into consideration by a Select Committee, I protest that I am not actuated by any want of confidence in his Majesty's advisers. My object, Sir, is far different.— it is to arm them with greater power of doing good, and to assist them in the praiseworthy object which they have already commenced— that of reducing the burthens which press upon the people. My object, in short, is to give them that power which they cannot exercise effectually, as I conceive, without the assistance of a Committee.* If you grant this inquiry you prove to the people, that you are anxious to alleviate their distress, by affording them the articles most necessary for their subsistence and comfort at a cheap rate to the country, that you desire to afford this relief, but at the same time to meet the claims of the national creditor, and to preserve inviolable the public faith.† "If you refuse the inquiry it can only be for reasons which I can scarcely conceive. You can only do so under the notion that Parliament is incompetent to conduct it, and allow me to say, that in doing so you will abandon the highest and most important part of your duty, and send the people discontented and dissatisfied away.‡ * Hansard, vol. xxiii. (new series) p. 894. † Ibid. p. 896. ‡ Ibid. p. 898. 741 It is not of the amount of revenue that I complain; it is not of the extent of taxation; it is not the sum of money which passes into your Treasury, it is the manner in which you raise it which checks your industry, destroys your energy, and must lead you, at last, to ruin and poverty.* * ansard, vol. xxiii. (new series) p. 863. 742 s. l. l. s. l. 743 744 l. l. l. l., 745 l. l., l., l. l., l. l. l. 746 gravamen 747 l., l. l. l. l. 748 749 l. 750
 Mr. Sinclair  begged to ask the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland, if the Government had received any accounts of a famine in the western parts of Ireland?
 Mr. George F. Young  wished to be informed whether the Government had taken any
 772
 Mr. George F. Young  confessed that he was one of those heretics to whom reference had been made by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the course of his speech this evening. He conceived that if the motion of his hon. Friend, the Member for Worcester had in terms expressed the substitution of a Property-tax for the present system of unequal taxation, it would even then have been a fair and rational mode of settling the question by reference of its consideration to a Select Committee. The Motion contained no such terms, and was not therefore open to objection on that ground. From the quotation which had been made from the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, on the 25th March, 1830, he (Mr. Young) should have supposed him to have been favorable to the principle of the adoption of a Property-tax, and though the right hon. Gentleman had qualified that speech and the expressions it contained, he would not taunt the right hon. Gentleman
 767
 Mr. Aglionby  remarked, that the conduct of the petitioner was, on his own showing, a gross violation of the rights and privilege of Parliament—as long as his presence might prejudice the sitting Members he remained away, and when he thought it might be favourable to them he appeared. He could see nothing in the petitioner's conduct which manifested sorrow for the offence of which he had been guilty,
 Mr. Henry
 734  rose to ask a question of the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs. He was anxious to learn what progress had been made in the negotiations carrying on between Spain and the late Spanish Colonies in South America, respecting the declaration of the independence of the latter. This was a matter of very great interest to many persons in this country who had embarked their fortunes in property in the South American States. Without offering any opinion on the subject, he would only further observe, that he was sure that his Majesty's Government must take as great interest in the subject as their predecessors in office.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that it would be in exceeding ill taste to persevere in using as a chapel a building which Inigo Jones has designed for a banquetting-hall, and which Rubens's paintings could not fail to remind the visitors was not intended for a place of worship. If the building was to be restored to the condition in which it was in the time of Charles 1st, he should not object to the grant; but he should oppose it, if it were intended again to fit up the place as a chapel.
 Mr. Warburton  said, he should divide the Committee against the grant, since it was to be applied to making the building a chapel.
 Mr. H. B. Curteis  considered 44,000 l.
 Mr. Herbert B. Curteis  considered the charge for furniture to be most scandalously extravagant. The country was called upon to pay upwards of 10,000 l. l.
 The Speaker  said, after the judicious remarks of the right hon. Baronet, he would observe that a material change in conducting the business of the House was gradually taking place; and he would not say that it was a change for the better. No doubt, from the great pressure of business, some alteration might be necessary; but then that alteration should be made after the deliberate consideration of those best qualified to decide on it. By not taking such Question into consideration as formerly, precedents were established and followed from time to time, and a total change of practice gradually took place: a course which must be deprecated, as calculated to countenance dangerous precedents, and affect the proceedings of the House insensibly, but surely.
 Dr. Bowring  complained of the want of accommodation for the Committees that were now sitting.
 Mr. Hardy  said, as the party at the Bar was guilty of an offence that would subject him to a criminal prosecution in a Court of Law, at the suit of Mr. Wason or the
 733
 Mr. Hardy  was sorry that the statement should go forth uncontradicted to the public, that every Englishman with 20 l. l. 760
 Mr. Richards  rose to second the Motion, and observed that no gentleman could refuse to admit that the taxation of the country had increased to an enormous extent; but if any Member did doubt that, let him reflect that in former times the country was able to export its surplus corn: why then, after the successive good seasons which they had for many years enjoyed, was it that they could not get rid of that surplus corn now? What was the reason that the market price was so low that it would not repay the costs of sowing. It was because the cost of production was greater here than in any other country; and what was the cause of that? It was owing principally to the high price of labour, and that high price was owing to the manner in which indirect taxation entered into the cost of every thing required to support life or which the labourer used. It was true that the price of labour was influenced by the supply and the demand; but the demand for labour was influenced by the funds in existence, applicable to the maintenance of labour, and also to the way in which those funds were applied to the profit of the person who employed them. By the influence of those wonderful improvements in machinery, introduced by Arkwright, Watt, and others, the country had been enabled to compete with the other nations of the world, in manufactures not merely upon equal terms, but upon terms favourable to a continual increasing demand for the manufactured goods of the country. But agriculture was very different from manufactures. Agriculture was nearly the same now as it was 1,000 years ago. Other nations had instruments similar to, if not better than those which we used. Agricultural instruments were simple contrivances, easily made and easily imitated. The application of science to agriculture had not enabled men to lessen the cost of production in such a way as to counterpoise the oppressive weight of taxation which entered into it so largely by the quantity of labourers employed, with the price of the production of wheat. The English farmers were not, therefore, able to compete with other nations in the market with regard to agricultural produce, and therefore, after success-
 751 752
 Mr. Pease  amidst cries of "question"
 766 l. l.
 Mr. Patrick Stewart  thought there was no occasion for the evidence. The confes-
 732
 Mr. Patrick Stewart  said, that he had not heard what had fallen from the hon. Member for Derbyshire, but he supposed he had submitted a Motion that Mr. Dasent should be brought up and discharged from custody. For his own part, he would recommend the House to act with as much leniency as was consistent with its sense of duty, because it certainly was the opinion of every Member of the Committee, that his case was apart from those of the other persons against whom the Speaker had issued his warrant, although it was necessary to include him in the Report. He was the only one of the persons who had absconded, who voluntarily came forward to give evidence, and the manner in which he gave his testimony made a favourable impression on the Committee. If, under these circumstances, the House should think it consistent with its dignity to have Mr. Dasent recalled, reprimanded by the Speaker, and discharged, that would be gratifying to the feelings of every Member of the Committee.
 Mr. Fowel Buxton  said, that the answer was so unsatisfactory that, on the part of an hon. Friend, he gave notice of his intention to bring the subject again under the consideration of the House.
 Mr. Gisborne  did not well understand the noble Lord. He seemed to think that many unnecessary steps were taken in this business; yet really only one step was taken, that of ordering the parties to be taken into custody. If no steps were taken till the evidence were laid on the Table, the ends of justice would be likely to be defeated, as the evidence would not, in all probability, be before the House for a month. Much of the general evidence tendered before the Committee was inapplicable to the present inquiry, that which referred to the scrutiny of the votes, for instance. Why, then, require the production of this mass of evidence, much of which was irrelevant, before coming to a conclusion? Would it not be better if the authority of the Committee were thrown overboard, and that the evidence was required as the ground-work of decision, that the part which referred to the conduct of the parties impeached, should be presented? In conclusion, he would say, in answer to the noble Lord's taunts, that he had not made any Motion that night, but merely threw out a suggestion to have the prisoner discharged, if it were agreeable to the House.
 Mr. Gisborne  proceeded to say, that he had a petition to present to that House on behalf of the individual who had been at the Bar. The petitioner candidly stated what his conduct had been, and the motives for it. In the petition it was observed, that he stood charged with avoiding to give evidence before that hon. House. To this charge the petitioner submitted an account of his proceedings, and which, he hoped would show that if there had been a breach of privilege, and a violation of the authority of Parliament—a privilege and authority
 728 729
 Mr. Ewart  agreed, that the associations connected with the place, and converting
 770
 Mr. Finn  adverted to sums of 50,000 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Tooke  said, that it was not because the Universities refused admission to the Dissenters, but because they endeavoured to prevent the London University from having a charter, that he proposed that the grant should, for the present, be suspended, but not altogether abolished. He would divide the Committee on the Question, that the Grant be for the present suspended.
 Mr. Tooke  said, that he should certainly oppose any grant of the kind until the University of London had the privileges accorded to it which it had so long and so justly demanded.
 Sir George Grey  supposed the question of the hon. Member to refer to importations between the years 1810 and 1820. Since 1820 there was no evidence to show that any illegal importations had been made. He apprehended that the greatest difficulty had been, and would be found in distinguishing the individual slaves improperly introduced into the island; and no measures of the kind alluded to had been taken, simply because they would not be effectual. Under the existing laws, slaves illegally imported previous to the Emancipation Act became subject to apprenticeship. Since the Emancipation Act the whole mass of slaves in the Mauritius had become subject to apprenticeship, which was only to last for a very limited period. As to the illegality of the importations, and the claims of the owners, the Commissioners were themselves sworn, and had the power of taking evidence upon oath; and to them, he apprehended, it must be left.
 Sir Hugh Campbell  stated, that the impression upon the minds of the Committee was, that the petitioner acted under the influence of another—it was at the suggestion of that person it was believed that the gentleman had left the country and returned to it.
 Sir James Graham  said, he observed with regret a novel and mischievous proceeding of late growing up in the House, of departing from the usual and proper practice of discussing the principle of Bills on the second reading. It was said, do not discuss the principle of this Bill now as it is to be referred to a Committee up stairs. The consequence of referring important Bills to Committees of that kind (of the present Bill he knew nothing, but it seemed from the remarks of the learned Gentleman (Mr. Lynch), who ought to be considered good authority on the point, that it was a very important one), was that the Select Committee would decide upon it, and the House and the country would hear no more of it till it became a law. That was a bad practice, and he called on the Government not to overlook a consideration of that nature.
 Mr. Montague Chapman  thought the witness was entitled to considerable indulgence and favour. He did not, like the other witnesses, keep away till he was brought back by force, but freely returned from a high sense of honour, to disconnect himself from the sitting Members. Then he freely appeared when the other witnesses refused; and undoubtedly his case should be separated from that of the others, who persevered to the last in refusing to give evidence.
 Lord Mahon  was happy to hear that the Spanish government were pursuing the course stated by the noble Lord, and was glad that the negotiations were being carried on in a manner likely to lead to a satisfactory result. It was the duty of his Majesty's Government to give every facility to promote the negotiations. He trusted
 735
 Lord Morpeth  said, that it was very true that Government had received very distressing accounts of the state of the population on the south-west coast of Ireland; and he could assure the hon. Member that the subject occupied the earnest and anxious attention of his Majesty's Government. Such steps had already been taken as were supposed best calculated to alleviate the distress. He hoped that the hon. Member would not press him into giving further particulars, as it might raise hopes among the sufferers which he was afraid might be disappointed.
 Viscount Palmerston  assured the hon. Gentleman, that not only his Majesty's present Government, but also the Government that was in office previous to the late Administration, which came into power in December last, felt a deep interest in the subject. The British Government had long been most anxious that the Government of Spain should acknowledge the provinces of South America as independent States, and had been long anxious, through its mediation, to assist in any manner to promote an amicable arrangement between the mother country and those States. The hon. Gentleman was mistaken in supposing that the negotiations now going on in Madrid had been carried on in any manner through the mediation of the British Government; at the same time it would not have hesitated, if requested by the two parties, to have endeavoured to promote an amicable arrangement between them. The Spanish Government had chosen to treat directly with the several governments of South America, and had therefore invited a person from South America, and the negotiations had been carried on between General Soublette and the Spanish Government. The hon. Member must therefore see that it was impossible for him to give any information respecting negotiations in which the British Government took no part; but from all that had come to his knowledge, he had no doubt the two parties would come to an amicable arrangement.
 Lord Sandon  could not have agreed to the grant, if it had been strictly local; but considering that it was for the improvement of one of the great means of communication between Great Britain and Ireland, it should meet with his support.
 Mr. G'Dwyer  denied that there were too many facilities to the registering of freeholders in Ireland. There was scarcely any impediment in England, while in Ireland they had to appear before the Registering Barrister, and undergo a severe cross-examination from any person who pleased. Many of those Conservatives who were most violent in their opposition to the people had no money of their own, and therefore must have been supported and returned by the friends of the Conservative body.
 Mr. Lowther  presented a petition from printers, &c, of York, praying that the whole of the duty on newspapers might not be reduced. The petition spoke in strong terms of the favourable condition in which the newspaper press of this country now was.
 Mr. Lowther , who had presented the petition, said that although he had suffered like many other individuals in some respects, from portions of the press, he should be sorry to express himself in the manner that the hon. Member had done.
 Sir George Clerk  presented three Petitions from three of the parties; he said that he knew nothing of them personally, but they stated that they were ignorant that they were offending against the privileges of the House by keeping out of the way, and threw themselves on the indulgence and mercy of the House. The first petition was from John Bond; it stated that he was by trade a tanner, and that he had for some time wished to go to Belgium on business, and that he had gone to Ostend as well to avoid being summoned as for the purposes of his trade. He had been accompanied by no other parties, and had borne the whole expense himself. He had returned on the 20th of April last, but had no intention to violate the privileges of the House. The second petition was from Arthur Bott Cooke, who also asserted his ignorance that he was offending by keeping
 788
 An Hon. Member  bore testimony to the good character of the last petitioner. No man ever bore a better character for a great many years than Mr. Clamp.
 An Hon. Member  presented a Petition from John Bury Dasent, who stated, that although he had been guilty of the offence of absconding to avoid the service of the Speaker's warrant on him, yet that he had afterwards voluntarily appeared before the Committee, and had been examined at great length, and had given the fullest possible evidence, and no evidence had been given before the Committee to criminate him in the slightest degree. He therefore prayed the House to liberate him from his present very painful position.
 Mr. Ireland Blackburne  said, that the hon. Member for Derbyshire had asked, whether there was any difference in the degree of guilt charged against the parties. He held there undoubtedly was, in favour of the four who confessed their error. The case against the other three he thought much stronger, particularly as respected Clipperton, at whose office the parties attended* But on what grounds the House could assume that Sparrow was equally culpable he was at a loss to conceive. He denied that Sparrow was agent to the Members. He acted gratuitously during the election; six weeks after which the parties absconded. Was there a tittle of evidence to show that
 797
 Sir George Clerk  begged to call the attention of the House, and the hon. Member for Derbyshire, to the petition which he had presented from the party, detailing many circumstances which he hoped would be considered of an extenuating character.
 Sir William Follelt  said, it appeared to him that they were called on to pronounce judgment before the case was heard. It being, however, the feeling of the House that they should do so, he would not oppose his opinion to it. But he would say, that the noble Lord had not answered the right hon. Baronet. The noble Lord said, that they were not then called on to pronounce judgment on the parties. He asked the House if that were the case, when were the parties to be sentenced?— [No, No.]
 Mr. O'Connell  was anxious that nothing should be done at the outset to mystify the case, or to prevent its being examined. It was one perfectly plain in point of law. The Committee had jurisdiction, under the Act of Parliament, to try the principal matter of election or no election, and they had necessarily a jurisdiction incidental to that, which should enable them to take care that the inquiry went on well for the purposes of justice, and which should apply, whether it were interrupted by force, or whether it were interrupted by fraud. The tribunal possessing this authority had tried the main facts, and had also, in deciding the collateral matter, given in a judgment on oath to the House, to the effect that there had been a fraud committed on the Committee and on their jurisdiction. The parties in question had, therefore, been actually found guilty of a contempt, and his legal education told him that the first step in that, as in every case of contempt of Court, was to put the culprits in custody, and then examine the new question which arose, as to the amount of punishment which ought to be awarded. The parties might then come forward and petition the House, either that they should be discharged, or be subjected to a light punishment. Was it one of the privileges of criminality in this country that a guilty man should be at once discharged? Those privileges were, he knew, large; but surely they did not extend quite so far. Let the House look to what had since taken place in the very borough to which these proceedings had reference, upon the subject of them itself. It appeared from the newspapers, that in Ipswich, the very town of which Mr. Sparrow was town-clerk—the only legal officer—a meeting had been held by certain parties to celebrate what they called the honourable victory, which they had obtained in opposition to the petition
 803 804
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that there never was a more unfair statement than that which the House had just heard from the hon. and gallant Member for Sligo.
 Mr. O'Connell : No, but that certain charges were made in a manner in which
 808 "No, no," from Colonel Perceval. Yes. 809
 An Hon. Member  said, that he never remembered an occasion on which the as-
 810
 Mr. O'Counell  said, that noble Lord was in the House who was Secretary for Ireland at the time of the transaction in question, when the House had directed Hudson, and those persons mentioned in the Report, to be prosecuted, and he could probably confirm the statement which had been made.
 Mr. O'Connell : Nothing could bear out more strongly the case which he slated to the House than the assertions just made by the hon. and learned Member. The hon. and learned Member admitted that certain persons were to have been prosecuted; he acknowledged that bills of indictment were preferred against some of the parties.—Then, whether a bill was or was not preferred against Mr. Hudson was a matter of no consequence. There was no doubt that the bills against the other parties were ignored; and Mr. Hudson, who was one of those referred to by the House, was surely entitled to the acquittal implied by the fact of those bills having been ignored by the Grand Jury. The effect, then, of the proceedings in Dublin was exactly the same, whether this statement of the hon. and learned Member or his account were taken into consideration, though he certainly was under the impression, from the fact of his being present when Mr. Hudson was congratulated upon the throwing out of the bills, that one of them had been preferred against that gentleman.
 Mr. O'Connell : And that is still my conviction.
 An hon. Member  said, that he had not seen the Ipswich paper to which the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had referred: but he bad seen another Ipswich paper, in which the editor stated that one
 814
 Mr. Pryme  suggested, that perhaps by confining Pilgrim in London they might be preventing him from making his defence against the criminal charge, in taking him away from his professional advisers and witnesses.
 Lord Stanley  was unwilling to interrupt the feeling which had been expressed on all sides of the House, a feeling in which he concurred, in favour of the second reading of the Bill, a Motion which he felt ought to pass, not only without opposition, but also without any discussion of the details of the measure. He was equally unwilling to allow the second reading to pass without expressing his dissent from the opinions expressed by the hon. Baronet, the Member for the University of Oxford. On the contrary, he was anxious to declare, that in his judgment, Parliament had the right, if circumstances required it, to introduce and carry into effect a measure like the present, with such modifications as might render it adapted to the times in which that Parliament existed. He would in the first place take the liberty of expressing his
 823 l. 824 l. l. Attorney General: 825 826 827
 Mr. Wallace  approved of the principle of the Bill, and in opposition to the view taken by the noble Lord (Stanley), thought it would be better that the members of the council should in every instance be elected by the whole town, and not separately in different wards. He was also strongly opposed to the same noble Lord's proposition that the council should be elected for six years.
 Mr. Ireland Blackburne  felt bound in duty to his constituents not to allow this opportunity to pass by without expressing his opinion in favour of the principle of the Bill. Having read a great deal of the evidence given before the Commissioners, and having, for the last two years devoted a great deal of attention to the subject, he was decidedly of opinion, that the system of self-election in Corporations ought to be removed—that Corporations should be well governed—that corporate property should be well administered, and that those persons who had the deepest interest in the municipal government should, at least, have a voice in the choice of those who were to govern them. The only mode by which this system of self-election could be removed, was to give the inhabitants at large (under certain restrictions, he admitted), the right of choosing the persons who were to administer their funds, and to rule over their borough. He asked the question, who ought to be the persons so to choose their municipal representatives?—the persons who paid their proportion of the fund to be administered by those who represented them. If there were nothing else but the mere administration of the corporate funds, upon principle it would be absolutely necessary that every person who contributed a part of them should have a voice in the election of municipal officers. But inasmuch as there were other duties to perform, it became necessary that some other qualification should be imposed upon the electors beyond the mere paying the rate. It was necessary that they should be permanent householders, having a permanent interest in the borough. He thought, however, that to establish that permanent interest, it was not necessary that a person should be three years resident in any particular borough before he acquired the right of voting. He thought that one year's residence, and one year's rate-paying would be amply sufficient. In all the rest of the details of the Bill, as well as in the principle he cordially concurred.
 Dr. Baldwin  presented a Petition from freeholders of Cork, praying the House to adopt measures for the better prevention of bribery and corruption at Elections. He declared that the Conservative Club of Dublin at the last election for Cork had sent down money for the purpose of bribing the freeholders and freemen, and that an office was opened in George's-street to distribute the money, which was done in the most unblushing and shameless manner. He was glad to see the noble Lord in his place, whose father had the merit of introducing the Reform Bill, and he trusted that he and the other members of his Majesty's Government would see the necessity of introducing some measure which would prevent these malpractices—which would preven the city being put to the expense of petitioning that House, and would save Committees of that House the trouble of turning out obtrusive Members from the seats they had usurped. The petitioners suggested that candidates should be required to take the same oaths against bribery that was
 783
 Mr. Law  suggested a doubt whether the House, without the consent of the Crown, signified by his Majesty's Attorney-General, could transfer Pilgrim from his present custody to that of the keeper of Newgate. Pilgrim was now under a charge of felony, and had been admitted to bail upon that charge. He was therefore in custody of his bail. He had been delivered to their custody in order that he might render on a future day to the custody of the gaoler of Norwich, and it would therefore be a substantial change in his commitment to send him to Newgate. The object of the House would be answered by committing him to the custody from which he was taken—namely, that of the gaoler of Norwich.
 Lord John Russell  was happy to find that there prevailed so general a concurrence in the House with respect to the principle of the Bill, not only because that circumstance was an augury of the success of the measure, but also because it would make the perfection of the details a matter of more easy attainment. He was much gratified at hearing his noble Friend (Lord Stanley) express his approbation of the principle of the Bill; but this was nothing more than he expected; for, having been engaged with his noble Friend in forwarding through Parliament the measure for the reform of the representation, he felt convinced that the noble Lord would not withhold his support from a Bill having for its object the reform of the Municipal Corporations. The observations, too, which had fallen from the right hon. Baronet opposite, were, in his opinion, extremely fair and candid. The right hon. Gentleman admitted that the time had come when it was necessary to deal with Municipal Corporations, and he also declared his opinion to be, that it was expedient to deal with them on enlarged general principles. The right hon. Gentleman had directed the attention of the House to the three main Questions, the franchise of the constituent body, the frequency of the elections, and the absence of all qualification. With respect to the franchise of the constituent body, the observations which had fallen both from the right hon. Gentleman and the noble Lord (Lord Stanley) tended to confirm him in the opinion he had before expressed on this subject. He believed that that species of franchise had been selected which was likely to give content in the incorporated towns, and to produce good municipal government. He was not, therefore, disposed to make any alteration on this head in the Bill. It had been suggested by one hon. Gentleman at the head of the Commission, that it would be expedient to make the period of residence requisite to constitute a right to vote shorter than the term proposed, but though in former times the residence of one year might have been considered a sufficient
 842 843
 Lord John Russell  begged to be allowed to state in a few words the grounds on which he should give his vote. He thought the right hon. Gentleman was not precisely aware of the Question before the House, because they were not now apportioning the degree of punishment. It was not in the power of the House to say that one of the offenders should be sent to Newgate for
 800 801
 Colonel Perceval  repeated his assertion and expressed his confident conviction, that every respectable Member of that House would give full credit to it.
 Colonel Perceval  said, that, till this moment, he had not known that the bill in question had been sent before the Grand Jury; and he appealed to his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Bandon-bridge (Mr. Sergeant Jackson), whose practice had been extensive at the Irish bar, as to whether he had ever heard of the fact. He repeated, that he himself had never before heard of it.  [Cries of "Oh, oh."]
 Colonel Perceval : Does the hon. and learned Member for Dublin mean to say, that I have laid before the House a dishonest or dishonourable statement?
 Colonel Perceval  said, that the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had pronounced a severe censure upon a member of the profession of the law in England; but it behoved him to look a little at home before he dealt around him such unqualified and unmeasured condemnation. A learned gentleman had recently been appointed in Ireland to a situation of great confidence and considerable power in that country; that appointment was made, if not at the direct instance and on the recommendation of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, at least with his full acquiescence and approval. Now, it did so happen that the learned person who thus, as it appeared, enjoyed the patronage of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, had himself been guilty of the very offence which they had just heard so indignantly denounced from the other side of the House. The Gentleman to whom he alluded was Mr. Hudson, a member of the Irish bar; the situation to which he had been recently appointed made him one of the confidential advisers of the Government; and if the view taken of the conduct of the members of the English bar concerned in this matter were correct, nothing could be more obvious than that Mr. Hudson came completely within the scope of all the censure that had fallen from the lips of that very individual through whose countenance he was promoted to so confidential a situation in Ireland—for the warm eulogium very lately pronounced by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin upon all the Irish appointments must be full in the recollection of the House: according to his judgment, that learned person should be instantly removed from the select and limited society of the
 805 He is a barrister [Mr. O'Council rose to "order" but sat down.] 806 807
 Colonel Perceval  regretted that the late Members for the city of Cork were not in that House, that they might have an opportunity of replying to the very serious charges of bribery and corruption which had been brought against them by the learned Doctor. He was satisfied that his hon. Friends, the unseated Members, were not taxable with such offences. He was perfectly satisfied that if none but those who possessed a  bona fide
 Mr. O'Dwyer , in reference to the observations made by the hon. Member for Londonderry as to "the followers" of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, said, he did not conceive that such observations were proper; and he had also to remark that few persons who used such general observations would apply them to individuals, and he begged to convey that intimation in the most unequivocal manner to the hon. Member for Londonderry. He hoped that the Government would be too straightforward and too courageous in their determination to do justice to Ireland, to allow themselves to be influenced by the base intimidations
 787
 Mr. O'Dwyer  rose to order. He complained of the word "followers" being applied to the Members of that H ose, raid appealed to the Speaker to know if one Member were at liberty so to speak of others.
 Mr. O'Dwyer : what would be said of me, if I were to speak of Lord Roden and the squad in the same manner?
 Mr. Harvey  thought it would not be just to send Pilgrim to Norwich. He was a man that ought to be brought to the Bar. He believed they had not yet got all the parties. The hon. Member adverted to the particulars of the case as given in the evidence and petition of Pilgrim, and expressed his hope that Pilgrim would be protected. They had heard of the great respectability of the office of Messrs. Sewell and Blake, and he maintained that, admitting this, the fact of Pilgrim having been thirty years a clerk in their employment spoke highly in favour of his character. As it was not imperative that the House should send Pilgrim to Norwich, he contended that it would be better, under all the circumstances, that they should send him to Newgate.
 Mr. David Barclay  believed that in no instance was injustice more likely to be committed on individuals than when their case was heard at the Bar of that House. But on this occasion all the parties acknowledged their guilt. The case was one in which there was gross bribery and corruption, which he for one reprobated, and would punish to the utmost. He would therefore support the Motion of the Hon. Member for Derbyshire.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that after the unqualified assertion of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin to the contrary, and wishing to speak with every delicacy and caution on a question of fact affecting the personal character of others; yet, in vindication of his hon. and gallant Friend (Colonel Perceval), he (Mr. Shaw) must state to the House his confident belief that no bill of indictment whatever had been sent up against Mr. Hudson. He (Mr. Shaw) had not had his recollection lately called to the facts or circumstances of the case, and he would not, therefore, speak with positive certainty; but he was, at the time, a party concerned, having, both before and after the decision of the Election Committee in question, sat for the city of Dublin. He did not think such a bill of indictment could have been preferred without his having heard of it; and to correct his own impression, and fearful of, in the slightest degree, overstating in such a case, he hoped there would be no
 812
 Mr. Grote  took that opportunity of expressing the high sense which he entertained of the excellence of the principle on which the Bill rested; and he confessed it was a great satisfaction to him to perceive, from the general feeling which had been manifested by the House, that it was a task superfluous and unnecessary to prove that the self-electing corporation system was unfitted to the present times, and therefore ought to be swept away. He confessed he could not read the long report contained in the blue book which had been laid upon the Table of the House, without feeling a sense of shame and humiliation that so corrupt a system should have been allowed to remain so long pervading the whole country without any attempt being made to correct it. Whilst he approved entirely of the main principles upon which the Bill rested, and whilst he rejoiced to find that it was proposed to vest the entire control over the corporate property in the great body of the rate-payers, he was impelled to say a very few words in consequence of the remarks which had fallen from the noble Lord (Stanley) behind him. He should regret if the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department should be induced to adopt, and to incorporate in his Bill any of the suggestions which had been made by the noble Lord (Stanley) the Member for South Lancashire. So far from agreeing with that noble Lord that three years' residence was absolutely necessary to secure a respectable constituency, he could not but think that such a provision was likely to interfere most essentially with one of the great objects which the noble Lord, the Home Secretary, had in view, namely, the giving the franchise to the great body of the rate-payers in every large town. He trusted, therefore, that if, in the course of the discussion in Committee it could be shown to the noble Lord that a number of respectable and unexceptionable rate-payers would lose their franchise in consequence of the introduction of such a provision into the Bill, he hoped the noble Lord would not object to cut down the qualification to one year's residence instead of three. The noble Lord (Stanley) seemed to be greatly afraid lest, under what were called the voting clauses of the Bill, they should glide insensibly into a system of secret voting. If that were really to be the case, he (Mr. Grote) should not regard it as one of the defects of the Bill; and greatly should he rejoice if he could induce the House to agree with him in so constructing that part of the Bill as to make
 829
 Mr. George F. Young  perfectly concurred in the course which had been adopted by the House. The House, however, if it did not take care, would place itself in a situation of some hardship with respect to individuals. We have, said the hon. Member, not the evidence before us, and we cannot have it printed for three weeks or a month. If we determine to follow the course suggested by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, and proceed to punish the parties according to their more or less guiltiness, we may perhaps find, after the parties had been in custody for that time, that we have inflicted in that imprisonment, a punishment more than commensurate with their offence. He threw out this suggestion in order that it might be referred to the Committee to select and print such parts of the evidence as bore on the case of each of these individuals. By so doing they should have something whereby to determine the  minimum maximum
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, that when an hon. Member had asserted so solemnly as the gallant Colonel had asserted, that he never heard of a particular circumstance till the present time, it was not becoming for any one to appear to doubt his statement. He did consider that that course was so extremely ungentleman-like.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  wished to ask the hon. Member whether this individual did not state in evidence on oath that Mr. Kelly had no knowledge of any act of bribery committed by him?
 The Speaker  suggested, that before this Motion was put, the Report of the Ipswich Election Committee should be read, and afterwards, that the hon. Member should move, that the persons named in it were guilty of a breach of the privileges of the House.
 The Speaker  had not observed that the hon. Baronet was out of order.
 The Speaker  said, it would be necessary first to ascertain whether he were in custody.
 Mr. Buckingham  presented a Petition from an individual of the name of Alexander Oppenheim who had formerly conducted two public Journals in Jamaica. In 1831, an insurrection having arisen among the slaves of that island, it was imputed to this gentleman that the general tendency of his writings had the effect of exciting this insurrection, and the consequence was, that he was imprisoned without any legal process, or specific charge being made against him. Notwithstanding this conduct, he had been altogether unable to obtain redress, and the public feelings had been so much excited by his imprisonment, that this Gentleman had been unable to continue in his profession. He had, consequently, returned to England, and applied for the situation of Stipendiary Magistrate, for which, by his residence in the island, he was well qualified; but he had not succeeded in obtaining such appointment. He recommended the case to the consideration of his Majesty's Ministers.
 Mr. Hardy  wished to remind the House that the question before it had nothing to do with the Dublin Election and Mr. Hudson.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, this petition contained extraordinary and self-contradictory statements. The petitioners talked of the high character of the newspaper press of this country. Now there never was a press so degraded, so thoroughly immoral, as the newspaper press of this country; a despotism of the basest and most cowardly description was exercised by the persons connected with newspapers, who were ready on every occasion to ruin the public reputation of individuals in articles to which they did not dare to put their names: any thing so perfectly cowardly in feeling, and so despotic in execution, could not be instanced as the conduct of the newspaper press in this country, and they were told, forsooth, of the high character, of that press! If the stamp duties were taken off, it would not then have the power with impunity to ruin the reputation of individuals, for its attacks would be answered and its slanders exposed—that alone
 785
 Mr. Wilks  said, that it appeared to him to be inconsistent with the dignity of the House, after the House had commenced the consideration of a transaction of this nature, to refer it back again to any Committee. The Committee on the Ipswich election had finished its proceedings, and the House was commencing its part in them. All that the House could do was to accelerate the printing of the evidence, so that it might be submitted to the general perusal of Members and enable them to form their judgment upon it.
 Mr. Brotherton  had had some experience In the framing and working of two local Bills, similar in principle to the one now under discussion; and he agreed with what had fallen from the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, as to the division of boroughs, into wards, but he differed from that noble Lord as to the election of councilmen for six years. If either property or population were taken as the basis, the representation might be unequal; it was, therefore, necessary that these two elements should be combined to give the proper proportion. Suppose that a ward, according to the number of Rate-payers, should return twenty councilmen, but ac-
 840
 Mr. Hume  concurred with the hon. Member, and observed, that Pilgrim might be a very important witness respecting the conduct of the Magistrates.
 Mr. Hume  said, that though the hon. Member for Bath had so characterised some portion of the press, he was not disposed to join with him in those remarks as applicable to the whole, because some portion of it was conducted with as much honour as other portions of it were with disgrace. He was not, therefore, disposed to join in such a sweeping censure, though the condemnation might well apply to some of the conductors of the newspaper press. He, however, hailed many of them as the benefactors of the human race, and the protectors of liberty and freedom; the majority of them had come forward to defend the people's rights and to oppose corruption. He wished the House to observe, that this was a petition for the benefit of the few, because they were engaged in a monopoly which the repeal of the Stamp-duties would destroy. The petitioners objected to competition, which they alleged to be ruinous, but which had always been beneficial to the public—nor did he conceive it likely to be productive of injury in the present case. He held that if the press were once opened and freed from the present tax, there would be an opportunity of meeting slanderous accusations, which could not now be done. He therefore thought that the prayer of this petition was not deserving of the attention of the House.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  presented a Petition from Mr. O'Malley, the barrister, which stated that he had had nothing to do with the Ipswich election until two days before the meeting of the Committee, when he was retained as counsel. The only interview he had with Pilgrim was at the instance of the latter, who wished to consult him about his own affairs with Messrs. Sewell and Blake. Pilgrim was then about to quit London, and for the sake of further consultation he (Mr. O'Malley) had accompanied Pilgrim in a hackney coach to the place from which the stage started. The petitioner admitted that he knew Pilgrim was then avoiding the summons of the Committee, but denied that he had given him any advice to abscond. The petitioner asserted that he had no intention to violate any of the privileges of the House, and added, that his health was so delicate that he had only been able to pursue his profession at intervals.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, that, as he had been appealed to by his hon. and gallant Friend, the Member for Sligo, he felt it a point of honour to state to the House, with respect to what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, that, though practising at the bar in Dublin, he had never heard of the fact of bills being preferred against Mr. Hudson, and ignored by the city of Dublin Grand Jury. But he took it for granted that it was so, as the hon. and learned Gentleman had stated it to be within his own knowledge. Of course, if it were not a fact, it would not be so stated by him. With respect to the question before the House, he (Mr. Sergeant Jackson) thought that the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had made as unfair and as ungenerous a speech in aggravation of punishment, to influence the feelings of the House against individuals, and especially against a member of his own honourable and learned profession, as had ever been made within its walls; for he confounded
 811
 Mr. Jackson  resumed—And upon that fact he grounded one of the strongest personal allusions ever made in that House. Did not the hon. and learned Member state, with reference to Mr. Hudson, that the very same witnesses whose evidence succeeded in getting him implicated in the offence of bribery before the Committee, were examined before the Grand Jury, and failed to establish in the minds of the persons composing that tribunal any impression of the guilt of this gentleman.
 Mr. Jackson  understood the hon. and learned Member to state as a distinct fact, that a bill of indictment had been sent up against Mr. Hudson.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  would just tell the House the situation in which it would be placed, if it listened to the suggestion of the hon. Member. The Committee, when asked to return an abstract of the evidence furnished by Arthur Bott Cooke would have to return an answer of  nil,
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  in reference to the remarks of the hon. Member for Montgomeryshire, (Mr. Williams Wynn,) observed, that it would require three weeks at least to print the whole mass of evidence, and that part of it which related to the scrutiny was perfectly uninteresting. If, however, the whole mass of evidence was to be printed, it might be as well to have that which related to the bribery printed first, and that which related to the scrutiny printed afterwards.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  said, that if there was any doubt respecting the custody in which Pilgrim then was, he had a petition to present from Pilgrim, which would remove all difficulties upon that head.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  said, that four out of these seven persons, respecting whom the Special Report had been made, were guilty of the charge of absconding, the other three with aiding and abetting them therein. With respect to Sparrow, it was admitted that he was not a mere partisan, but an active agent of the Members, and was perfectly aware of all the plans going forward. Mr. Cook, one of the solicitors, consulted Pilgrim on the subject of his flight, and Sparrow wrote to Mr. Clipperton, who acted as the solicitor to the late Members. At his house the evasion was arranged, and false names with corresponding initials substituted for the names of the
 796 l.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  said, he was not astonished that there should be a misunderstanding as to Sparrow's evidence, for he never saw greater dexterity exhibited by any witness. They had evidence of Sparrow's agency, and of his being agent throughout the election, and they had likewise evidence that Pilgrim was referred by Sparrow to Clipperton.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  said, there were extenuating circumstances in favour of M. Dasent. He acted voluntarily throughout, and came before the Committee with all the appearance at least of doing so without compulsion, and readily gave his evidence. Neither did he receive or give money. All the other persons were sent off under feigned names—Pilgrim assuming that of Palmer.
 Mr. Sheil  did not consider that the hon. Member for Drogheda should have been at all angry with the hon. Member for Londonderry, whose high powers of sarcasm were so well known to them.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, hon. Gentlemen laid great stress on the necessity that there was for the evidence, but they appeared to lose sight of the fact, that the offence with which the parties were charged was admitted by them. The right hon. Gentleman referred to the petition which
 802
 Mr. Gisborne  said, he had all through carefully avoided any allusion to the evidence taken before the Committee. He grounded his proceeding entirely on the Report presented to the House, and his object in moving that the parties be committed to Newgate, in preference to the custody of the Serjeant-at-Arms, was, that the former was less expensive. The extenuating circumstances, he thought, could be best explained and considered hereafter in Committee.
 Mr. Gisborne  said, that he would move the same Resolutions one by one against each of the other parties, and he hoped that the discussion which had taken place upon Bond's case would preclude the necessity of a discussion upon the others. He then moved against Arthur Bott Cooke the same Resolutions which had just been carried against John Bond.
 Mr. Gisborne  said, that he now came to another class of offenders. He should, therefore, move that John Eddowes Sparrow having aided and abetted certain persons in keeping out of the way to avoid giving their evidence before the Select Committee appointed to try and determine the merits of the petition complaining of an undue election and return for the borough of Ipswich, was guilty of a breach of the privileges of the House of Commons.
 Mr. Gisborne : I will now proceed to the case of John Pilgrim.
 Mr. Gisborne  said, that as it had been announced that the several persons ordered to be taken into custody on Friday last were now in the custody of the Serjeant-at-Arms, it became his duty to submit a Motion to the House as to the manner they should be dealt with. He had said on a former occasion, that it was open for the House to pursue one of two courses. They might assume the guilt of the parties from the Report of the Committee and the evidence taken before it, or they might proceed to give the parties a hearing. Between these two courses no intermediate line could be drawn. He was of opinion that it was most expedient to pursue the first of the two courses; and he was happy to find that the opinion which he had taken up had been fortified by a number of cases to which he had referred. He found that with only two exceptions the House had never called a person to the Bar, or in any manner listened to what he had to say in his defence, after he had been reported guilty of a breach of privilege, but had been treated as a guilty person. He would state to the House some of the cases to which he had referred. He would, however, previously observe, that he was satisfied that they would not be justified in hearing an explanation from any of those persons at the Bar without giving them a fair trial—they must allow
 791 792
 Mr. Gisborne  did not know how many other petitions remained to be presented, but he was sure that where he sat not one word of the contents of those already laid upon the Table had been heard. At any rate it was the case with himself, and he was not sitting near the end of the House. He had hardly heard a single word of either of the petitions. He was of opinion that it would save time to have the petitions printed at once, and wait until they were in the hands of Members before discussing the prayer of them.
 Mr. Walter Campbell  replied, that it certainly was the case. The witness observed that, although he had been guilty of bribery, yet that he had done so spontaneously, and without the knowledge of the candidates.
 Mr. Waller Campbell  stated, that he had received last night a letter from this petitioner, remarking that an expression made use of by him on a former occasion was not correct. The words complained of were, that the petitioner had been the dupe of Mr. Kelly. It appeared, however, that he had not acted under the instructions of that gentleman, whose pupil he had formerly been, but had fallen into error from an anxiety to support the cause of his friend. He felt, also, bound to say that at the time he was absent he was so without the knowledge or approbation of Mr. Kelly. Again, in the most generous manner the petitioner declared that although he had been guilty of some acts of bribery, it had been done without the knowledge of Mr. Kelly. He had felt bound, as a Judge, to concur in the Report that had been made to the House respecting the conduct of the petitioner; but he could not help feeling that that Gentleman had acted in the manner he had from a feeling of chivalrous friendship. He had, possibly, made himself liable to some punishment for having been guilty of bribery, but he had then been brought forward for absenting himself from the service of the Speaker's warrant. Although he did this at first, yet afterwards he had come forward and given evidence. He therefore thought that the petitioner should be treated with more leniency than
 790
 Mr. Waller Campbell  said, that the right hon. Gentleman seemed to forget that the
 799
 Mr. Ewart  approved of the Measure introduced by his Majesty's Government, but could not find in the history of our municipal constitutions any instance of a previous residence extended to so long a term as three years being required in the Bill now before the House. Much less could he find any precedent for the suggestion of the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire—that the Council should continue in office six years. His noble Friend, the Member for Liverpool, had stated that publicity of accounts was one of the characteristics of that town; but the accounts were never seen by the public, or were only obtained by contraband means through the favour of some one or two of the members. With regard to the administration of the revenues of the town, amounting to 100,000 l.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  had understood that the hon. and learned Gentleman had stated that, of his own knowledge, he knew the bills to have been presented and ignored.
 Sir Frederick Pollock  entirely agreed in the propriety of those expressions of strong reprobation of bribery and corruption which had been made use of so profusely that night. He doubted, however, whether they had not induced hon. Members to wander somewhat from the precise Question before the House. The Question before the House was, whether, having voted a certain offence a breach of privilege, they were prepared to order those who by a Report of the Committee had been found guilty of it, to be confined in Newgate. In examining this question, the hon. and learned Member had digressed to a Dublin case, in which proceeding he should not follow him further than to remark, that the facts which had been stated with respect to a gentleman in that case, showed how extremely cautious the House should be how they acted on the Report of a Committee, without all the evidence before them, and without allowing the parties affected by that evidence to be heard by Counsel. The case of the hon. and learned Member allowing it to be exactly true, proved this—that a Report was made by a Committee of that House, which was afterwards ascertained to be altogether unfounded. He should not however offer any opposition to the passing of this Resolution, but he thought that the House ought to have before it the proceedings before the Committee, and that, when it had got them, it should be cautious how it took measures, which not only infringed on the liberty of the subject, but also impugned the character of individuals.
 The Attorney-General  said, that all Recorders now holding that office, who were Barristers of not less than five years' standing, might under the provisions of this Bill be re-appointed by the several councils to be elected by the rate-payers in those boroughs, but that where the office was not held by Barristers, or by Barristers of less than five years' standing, these individuals could not be re-appointed. When any vacancy in respect to the office of recorder should ensue, on all future occasions the appointment to those offices would be vested in the Crown.
 The Attorney-General  hoped that he should never be found backward in standing up for the rights of the Crown, and the prerogatives of his office; but he did not believe that there was any such right or any such prerogative as that for which his hon. and learned Friend was contending. When application was made some years ago to the Court of King's Bench to permit a person in its custody upon a criminal charge to give evidence before a Committee of the House of Commons, the Court directed the Attorney-General not to give his assent to such a Motion, but to show cause why such permission should not be granted. The Attorney-General might have shown upon affidavit that the party for whom this permission was craved was committed on grave charges, as on a charge of murder, for trial, and. that the course of justice would be perverted by permitting him to go before the Committee. The Attorney-General might also have refused to show cause at all, and if he had so done, he (the Attorney-General) would contend that the Court of King's Bench,  proprio vigore, Habeas Corpus, 820
 Mr. Jervis  rose, not for the purpose of answering the objections of the right hon. Baronet who had just sat down, but he apprehended that the principle on which Corporations were formed was for the mutual convenience of the inhabitants of the towns; and he considered that one year's occupation and rating was for all purposes sufficient to entitle an inhabitant to enjoy the privilege of voting in the election of the corporate body. The right hon. Baronet had said, that he considered the annual going out of one-third of the town council would be inexpedient; but then that right hon. Baronet must have forgotten that two-thirds always remained in office to instruct those newly elected. Besides, as was the case with the guardians of the poor, if they behaved well when in office they were generally pretty sure of re-election. As regarded the qualification, he considered that the persons who would be elected would be of such character and station in life as to render any qualification unnecessary. Because a noble and learned Lord (Brougham) had chosen to introduce a Bill into the other House with qualifications, he apprehended that that House was not bound to adopt the same principle. To enlarge the division of great towns into wards he considered beneficial, and he should advise that a revising barrister should go to each town, and examine into the list of voters, to prevent any undue
 841
 Sir John Wrottesley  said, that he had been one of those who had expressed some disapprobation when the hon. and gallant Gentleman made the assertion in question. He did so, not because he for one moment doubted the truth of what he stated, but because, being strongly impressed with the feelings of the moment, he gave vent to the great surprise which he felt, that the hon. and gallant Gentleman should have made a charge of the kind which he did bring forward, particularly against an individual whose prospects in life were so peculiarly liable to be injured by it, without having made those necessary inquiries, in the absence of which, he (Sir John Wrottesley) would put it to his candour, his honour, and his better judgment, whether he ought to implicate any individual.
 Sir Robert Bateson  was quite surprised at the tone adopted by the hon. Member for Drogheda. It was quite ridiculous to suppose he intended any offence to that hon. Member. What he had said of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin should be considered as a compliment to his talents.
 Sir Robert Bateson  said, he had not meant to give any offence. He did not think the word so very objectionable. He had heard the word "tail" mentioned in that House with impunity, over and over again. He had selected a harmless word without meaning any personal offence. But, as it appeared to offend the sensitive feelings of the hon. Member for Drogheda, he should not use it again. He had given notice of this petition, and regretted that none of his Majesty's Ministers were present. The petitioners stated, that after the Tithe Bill of 1832, they had entered into a compact with their tenants to pay the tithes for them, some of the landlords had not done so, and as it was understood that the balance of the million fund would be applied to the payment of arrears, which would be nothing less than a bounty on agitation, it was hoped that if any portion of the arrears of tithes for 1834 were paid, those who had secured quiet and tranquillity would have the benefit of it. The petitioners prayed that in any Bill which might be introduced on the subject of tithes, their case would be taken into consideration, and evenhanded justice be thus dispensed to all classes of his Majesty's subjects. Many of these petitioners had paid the tithes of the year 1834, and they were deserving the consideration of the Legislature.
 Sir Robert Bateson  presented a Petition from the Lord-lieutenant, and a large body of the landed proprietors of the county of Londonderry, on the subject of tithes, and praying for more justice than had characterised former Bills. He regretted that he did not see on the opposite benches any Member of his Majesty's Government connected with Ireland; he would be satisfied if he could only see the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, who, he believed, was one of the most influential of the Irish Ministers.
 786
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, he did not rise for the purpose of opposing the Second Reading of the Bill, but to protest against its generality. The Bill went by its provisions to affect all Corporations, and in his judgment, though the House possessed the power and the right to punish delinquency when proved, yet he could not think the House had any right to interfere
 821
 Sir Robert Peel ,—The same motives
 831 832 l. 833 bonâ fide primâ facie bonâ fide 834 l. l., virtute officii, 835 836 l. 837 838 maximum maximum 839
 Sir Robert Peel : Certainly the hon. Gentleman must have completely mistaken the part I took—at least, he mistook my intention. I have so much deference for the Report, that I am ready—without the evidence—to admit that a breach of privilege has been committed; but if a Report, containing a charge against seven individuals, makes no discrimination and distinction between their cases—and the hon. Gentleman himself declares that some distinction is necessary—then, I say, that I wish to judge of the relative extent of their offences by a reference to the evidence, and not from the impression on the mind of each individual Gentleman of the Committee,—and for this reason, that it is possible that each of them may take a different view. Without, therefore, the slightest disrespect for the opinion of the hon. Member, I protest against being concluded by a construction put on the evidence by my hon. Friend, as I equally object to a construction being put on it by any other Member of the Committee—my wish is to see the evidence, when I am called on to award punishment.
 Sir Robert Peel : It is not my intention to offer any decided opposition to the Motion of the hon. Gentleman; but, at the same time I must repeat, that instead of adjudicating on the cases of these parties, and committing them to Newgate upon the Report of the Committee, and without affording them the opportunity of being heard, it would have been more satisfactory to me—first, to have read the evidence on which the charge is founded; and, secondly, to have given them an opportunity of saying a word in their defence. I do not think it satisfactory to hear the opinions merely of individual Members on this case
 798 ipse dixit,
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, that he did not rise to object to this Motion; he rose to ask the hon. Member for Derbyshire whether what he had stated respecting the witness Bond applied also to the present witness? He asked, whether the evidence which applied to him could be laid before the House: because, if it could be laid before the House, without waiting for all the evidence, it would be desirable. This had been done before by Election Committees. He thought that it might be referred to the Ipswich Election Committee to read over the evidence taken before them, and to select and extract such portions of it as referred to the different parties whom it was now proposed to call before the House. It was only right that those who had to apportion the punishment should have before them the evidence that was necessary to inform them how they should apportion it.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, that before they decided on prosecuting any parties
 816
 Mr. Williams Wynn  had no doubt that the course proposed by the hon. Member was regular.
 Mr. Williams Wynn : No, not for safe custody, but for his offence. As Pilgrim
 819
 Mr. Williams Wynn  thought that the
 817
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, that if the Motion was, that these persons continue in custody or be discharged, he should agree with the hon. Member as to the propriety of the course he had proposed; but standing as the House did in a judicial capacity, and these persons being before it for the purpose of receiving judgment, it was the duty of the House to hear their petitions. Before they proceeded to judge these persons, it was right that hon. Members should hear what they had to say in extenuation of their conduct; and if the petitions had not been heard, it was proper that they should
 789
 Mr. Williams Wynn  asked, if there were not extenuating circumstances in favour of the other four individuals?
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, that this was a charge against parties which in itself amounted to a high contempt for the authority of that House. He could not imagine that upon that question, there could be a dissentient voice. The most important privileges of that House were its inquisitorial functions; and if any persons should obstruct those functions by absconding, to avoid giving evidence before a Committee, or by instigating and persuading any persons to abscond, he should apprehend that such an offence would call for the most severe exercise of the power of the House. The immediate question, however, before the House, was in what manner they were satisfied that the offence charged to these parties had been committed. The question was, in what manner they should proceed to satisfy the justice of the case. It appeared to him that the Report of a Committee with respect to any such conduct as these persons were alleged to be guilty of, was good evidence; above all, such was the case with respect to some of the cases referred to by the hon. Member, in which it appeared the witnesses prevaricated before the Committee, for the House could not judge of their conduct, or of the bearing of their evidence. With respect to the cases of absconding, it appeared to him that such conduct was calculated to throw insurmountable difficulties in the way of any inquiry before a Committee, and it became the duty of the House, without further ceremony, to give orders that the persons guilty of such conduct should be taken into custody. After this had been done, it became the duty of the House to make itself acquainted with the bearing of the case before the Committee, and to inflict punishment on the offender according to the degree of his guilt. He, therefore, thought that the House should have the evidence before it, when it might judge with propriety all the circumstances, either in aggravation or extenuation. Until he had seen the evidence, he should be unable to judge what degree of punishment might be inflicted as expiative of the offence. He knew nothing whatever of the case until he came into the House, and he was totally and entirely ignorant of the circumstances of it. It was the opinion of the Members of the Committee, that there were discriminating circumstances in the case, and that some
 794 795
 Lord Morpeth  understood that a complaint had been made of his not being in his place on the presentation of the Londonderry petition. If he had known that any statement was about to be made for which his presence could be required, he should most willingly have attended. At the same time he must be permitted to say that he could hardly enter into the proposed question of Irish tithes until he had the opportunity of bringing forward that question.
 Lord Sandon  had not the least wish to oppose the Motion now under discussion, but he must remind the House that great care and caution ought to be used in providing that in all places which this measure went to affect, the administration of justice and the proper distribution of public charities vested in corporate bodies should not be too lightly interfered with. There was one provision of the Bill, as to the applicability of which to all corporations, no matter what might be the amount of their funds, he entertained great doubts. The provision to which he alluded was the triennial election. The Corporation of the town which he had the honour of representing had the superintendence and disposal of funds to the amount of 100,000 l. l. l. 822
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that no Committee had yet given any opinion upon the right of these voters, and, on inquiry, their situation might be found to be different.
 Mr. O'Connell  was quite sure that nothing effectual could be done without legislation. He begged respectfully to ask the House what reason there was that there should not be an annual revision of the registry in Ireland as in England? The inconvenience of octennial registration was this, that in eight years a thousand changes might take place, and yet the certificate would be conclusive, or could only be set aside at an enormous expense by a Committee. He would mention Youghall as a place with which he was somewhat familiar: there registration took place at a distance of seventy miles; every man who registered had that distance to travel. Ought that to continue? The Attorney-General had asked him what suggestion he would make as a remedy; but he could hardly venture to give any opinion, lest it should be said that it was his work; but whose work soever the remedy might be, the evil ought not to remain. In the city of Dublin the House had called for a return of those who obtained their freedom by birth, servitude, or marriage, or by grace especial, and the Return was, that they admitted nobody of right; yet they were every day admitting by virtue of birth, servitude, or marriage, and Chief Baron Joy had held that it was a good right of voting. He (Mr. O'Connell) thought that the annual revision should be subject to appeal both ways; at present there was an appeal from the Registering Barrister to a Judge of the Superior Courts, but the appeal ought to lie as well for improper admission as improper rejection. It might be conclusive for twelve months, but not longer; and thus everybody before an election would know who was entitled to vote, and the enormous, frightful, and, he would say, disgraceful expense of a scrutiny avoided. Some evil might indeed arise from the Barrister and the Judge being both wrong: but the error could only last for a year, or at all events the chance was, that then it would be corrected. He hoped that the Attorney-General would consent to bring in a Bill to amend the law in these respects, and that before another week elapsed it would be laid upon the Table.
 Lord Stanley  would not enter at large into the Question, but agreed that Irish registration admitted and required amendment. He rose principally to remind those who were not Members of the Parliament which passed the Reform Act, that in England up to that period there existed no system of registration; in Ireland there was a system, and although it was generally admitted to be defective, it was thought better not to change it until the result of the experiment in England was known. There was no reluctance to put both countries on the same footing, but a desire to see first how the new plan worked in England. There was at the time great difference of opinion among the Irish Members in particular as to the three points of separate polling places, length of registration, and duration of elections. These were matters discussed at the time, and it was finally agreed that it would be wiser not to make the change until it was known how the new plan operated in this country.
 Mr. O'Connell  was anxious to observe that all that he knew of the judgment of Chief Baron Joy was from the newspapers; he was not in Dublin at the time Chief Baron Joy gave his decision. The point then was, the freedom was claimed as a right, and the city of Dublin refused to admit any as a matter of right. Since the year 1792 the Catholics had been entitled to take up their freedom in Dublin, and yet none had been admitted, though many had become entitled to their freedom either by being the sons of freemen, or having served an apprenticeship, or from having married the daughters of freemen. That Corporation excluded all that it chose, and admitted none but such as it pleased.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  recommended the hon. Member for Hastings to refer the Bill to a Committee up stairs. He was favourable to the principle of the Bill, and felt satisfied that the House would not do its duty if it did not alter the election-law on the subject.
 Colonel Wood  felt convinced that if the polling was to be completed in one day, that it would be necessary greatly to increase the number of polling places in all counties. In the county he represented, there were 2,000 voters, and only one polling place, and it would be impossible that they could all record their votes in one day.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  reminded the House that there were several Bills on the Table for altering many important parts of the Reform Bill. There was one for altering the mode of registration; another for preventing intimidation; a third for the better prevention of bribery, and this for taking the poll in one day. If they went on in that way, they would repeal step by step the whole of the Reform Bill. He would suggest that all the Bills should be referred to a Committee up stairs, for the purpose of consolidating them. They ought to be extremely cautious in their proceedings respecting this matter, lest in their anxiety to produce good they did great mischief. He doubted whether this Bill, if passed into a law, would diminish the expense to candidates; on the contrary, he believed that it would greatly increase it.
 Mr. Ord  felt satisfied that the hon. Member for Newcastle was in error in supposing that this Bill would increase the expense of elections. The chief expense of elections in counties was carrying the voters to the polling places. If the distance between them was diminished, the charge of conveyance would be greatly lessened. He thought that it was also desirable to keep the measures for amending certain points in the Reform Bill perfectly distinct from each other. The course pursued by the hon. Member for Hastings appeared to him to be most judicious; but the Bill as it now stood would not carry the intentions of his hon. Friend into effect.
 Mr. Goulburn  admitted that it would be advisable to specifically prohibit oil casks.
 Mr. Goulburn  vindicated the principle of the Bill, which only interfered to protect those whom it was not the interest of the shipowners to take care of. The latter would look to the sufficiency of their boilers for the sake of their vessel, while it was found by experience that in many
 857
 Mr. Thorneley  complained of the clause restricting the export of spirits in emigrant vessels. He thought a cargo in pipes or hogsheads as safe as one in bales.
 An Hon. Member  stated, that he had known cases where the captains had taken out a large stock of spirits, apparently for exportation, but really to sell to the passengers for his own profit. In cases where the passengers mutinied, and took the control of the vessel into their own hands the presence of such a stock was particularly dangerous.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the right hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin, was wrong in supposing that this Bill would encourage clandestine marriages. Such marriages occurred at present, and would continue to occur, whether they passed this measure or not, the effect of which would be to take the penalty of such marriages off the innocent, and fix it upon the guilty parties. It was not right that the children should suffer; if any one was to suffer, let it be the parents. The present system encouraged young men of the Established Church in Ireland to marry Catholic females of a rank in life below themselves for the purpose of seduction. Now, the present Bill would defeat that object; it would no longer be a mock marriage; and if the young Protestant gentleman united him-
 860
 Dr. Lushington  said, that no man was more anxious that a general marriage law should be passed than he was, and he was glad to hear the gallant Member for Sligo state that he approved of the French system; but would the gallant Member guarantee that a general marriage law would pass the House of Lords? All former attempts at legislation upon the subject had failed. The law, as it at present stood, as had been truly observed by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin,
 862
 Mr. Ruthven  believed the Bill would prevent clandestine marriages, for the Protestants would be convinced that they could not afterwards escape their natural consequences.
 An hon. Member  opposed the Bill, on the ground that it would occasion considerable inconvenience in the due administration of justice. He conceived, that it was right prisoners should have Counsel in all cases in which speeches were made against them by Counsel for the prosecution. But in the English Criminal Courts, it was seldom the practice, in minor offences, for any speech to be made against the prisoner. He admitted, that it was sometimes done; but, speaking from his own experience, he confidently
 866
 Mr. Blackburne  said, that in the northern circuit he had always seen Counsel open the case for the prisoner, and if the practice was different in the midland circuit it should be altered and made the same. It ought not to be left to the prosecutor to say whether the prisoner was to be defended or not. He contended that little time of the Courts would be taken up if the Bill were permitted to pass. More time was lost now through the necessity of the Counsel putting questions to give the Jury a better idea of the circumstances of cases, and the present Bill, in nine cases out often, would be the cause of a saving of time. In the course of his practice, he always found that misdemeanours occupied less time than felonies. In burglaries, for instance, many minute circumstances might arise that it would be necessary for Counsel to explain to the Jury, and in which the prisoner required to have Counsel more than in cases of assault, in which punishment might not amount to more than a fine of five shillings. He would give his most cordial assent to the Bill.
 Mr. O'Connell : I can.
 Mr. O'Connell : I can.
 Mr. Goulburn  considered the grand objection to the proposition to be this. It would not be denied that in criminal cases the attainment of truth was the chief object, but if Counsel were allowed to argue every point, and to make their own statements of the case, the display of legal ingenuity rather than the development of truth would be the consequence. This was known to be the fact in cases of misdemeanor, in which Prisoner's Counsel frequently kept back their evidence, and trusted the acquittal of their client to the power of their eloquence. As to the right at present possessed by the Prosecutor's Counsel, he had seldom heard it controverted that it was the practice of the profession never to exceed a simple unvarnished statement of the facts they intended to prove.
 Dr. Lushington  said, that the hardship inflicted on prisoners by denying their Counsel a right of addressing the Jury had attracted considerable attention so long back as 1805. He remembered that on one occasion thirty-one prisoners were convicted upon certain evidence, and sentenced to execution. A few days after other prisoners were, upon the very same evidence, found not guilty—the consequence of which was, of course, a pardon to the thirty-one. At the Admiralty Sessions he laboured for three hours to make the Jury acquainted, through his mode of cross-examination, with certain indispensable points, which they were wholly unable to comprehend. His efforts
 871
 Mr. O'Connell  appealed to the extensive practice he had for years had in criminal cases at the bar in Ireland, in corroboration of the sentiments which it was well known he entertained on this subject. How often had it been his lot to waste the time of a Court by attempting to make, by a long cross-examination of witnesses, indirectly a speech for the prisoner, so as to explain by this circumlocution that state of facts which would have been instantly explained had he possessed the power of uttering only four or five consecutive sentences as a defence for his client. He had witnessed numerous cases when for want of this equitable chance being afforded to a prisoner, as well as to his accuser, the unhappy man, though innocent, was found guilty. The prosecutor's Counsel's character was at stake, and he drew upon his own ingenuity. Why should not the permission to manage his case be granted also to the prisoner? By our law, a man arraigned for a misdemeanor, or a 5 s. 870
 An Hon. Member  would undertake to say that if the proposition were agreed to, the business at the West Riding of Yorkshire Sessions would never be got through.
 Mr. A. Sandford  moved, that at the end of the first clause the following provision be added, "Provided, nevertheless, that in cases of felony, unless the Counsel against the prisoner shall have made a speech in the prosecution, the Counsel for the prisoner shall not address the Jury in defence of such prisoner."
 Mr. William Duncombe  wished to know from the noble Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire, whether he intended to propose to increase the number of polling places in that Riding.
 Lord John Russell  was favourable to the principle of the Bill, but he would suggest to the hon. Member who had introduced it, whether it would not be better to refer this Bill to the Committee which was now sitting to inquire into the present mode of registration.
 Lord John Russell  said, that he did not know whether the House was now prepared to adopt the Resolution mentioned the other
 847
 Lord John Russell  thought that as the Resolution was worded, that class of voters would be included.
 Colonel Perceval  said, there was no instance on record where a marriage was held valid in Ireland that had not been celebrated by a person in holy orders.
 Colonel Perceval  said, that on a former occasion, when the Bill was in progress through the House to do away with the penalty of 500 l. 861
 Mr. Lynch  said, that all the arguments that had been urged upon the other side, bore upon the Bill of 1833, but had no reference to the measure then under discussion. The present Bill removed no penalties; they were removed by the Bill of 1833. The law, as stated by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Shaw) with respect to degraded clergymen, was certainly in force, and ought to be repealed. All that he (Mr. Lynch) asked, was, that Roman Catholic clergymen should be placed on the same footing with Dissenting clergymen. All he asked was, that if a Protestant should yield to the conscientious feelings of the person he is about to marry, and has the ceremony performed by a Roman Catholic clergyman, that the marriage should not be void.
 Mr. O'Dwyer  supported the Bill. The evils which the Gentlemen deprecated already existed, and the measure would remove them. In the manner of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, the House had a fair sample of the faction who had so long domineered over Ireland. The hon. and learned Gentleman contended that an exemplary and pious Roman Catholic clergyman, and a degraded Protestant clergyman should be placed on the same footing, and for this his liberality the Roman Catholics in that House, as well as the Roman Catholics of Ireland, could not but feel grateful.
 Mr. Charles Buller  recommended the hon. Member for Hastings not to adopt the suggestions made to him without due deliberation. If the hon. Gentleman sent the Bill to a Committee up stairs, it was not likely that he would get it passed this Session. It had been suggested to his hon. Friend to refer the Bill to the Registration Committee, as if that Committee had not now sufficient work to perform. He was sure if that Committee went through the matters referred to them in a satisfactory manner, that they could not bring the labours to a close before the end of the Session. His hon. Friend had no chance of carrying his Bill at present, if be did not get it committed at once.
 Mr. Charles Buller  thought that the case quoted by the hon. Member shewed that there was something defective in the mode of registration adopted in Ireland, and he was of opinion that the registration in Ireland, as in England, should be annual.
 Mr. Charles Buller  thought it very extraordinary that any Gentleman should challenge, as the hon. Member for Shaftes-bury had done, the existence of any recent convictions in which the innocent party had suffered. He (Mr. Buller) would not go back to ancient cases: he appealed to the common experience of every one. He only asked the House to recollect the statements made at the discussion of the question last Session:—namely, that one Sheriff (Mr. Wilde) had during his Shrievalty saved no less than five persons who had been unjustly convicted. In that great city the public was not satisfied with the kind of trial which went on at the Old Bailey. In every case long negotiations went on to prove the guilt of the Prisoner. He went only as far as the present year. A few days ago, they had seen the convict Williams condemned for a capital offence; but respited because of doubts which existed after trial as to his guilt. His hon. Friend had thrown away some arguments which he considered stale, and unworthy of being used. He thought the arguments stale and unworthy. He had advanced the old argument that the prisoner would "lose by having Counsel!" It seemed to him (Mr. Buller) that some Gentlemen greatly overrated the facility of trials. It was thought sometimes, that criminal cases might be disposed of by any Judge. But there was the most difficult case of intention, and he (Mr. Buller) believed that in spite of the facility with which some Gentlemen thought Criminal cases were decided, there was quite as much difficulty in them as in civil cases. Gentlemen had entirely disagreed in their experience of the old law. His experience differed from both the hon. Members who had spoken. He could state that Counsel for the prosecution made speeches only in the most complicated cases. But it was in those very cases that the speech told most against the prisoner, for while every little fact was put together and given to the Jury in a certain light by the prosecutor's Counsel he had no right to rebut those interferences and conclusions by a similar statement on the part of his advocate. He was convinced that the real objection entertained by Judges and Chairmen of Quarter Sessions against the removal
 869
 Colonel Sibthorp  thought that it would be equally necessary to increase the number of polling places in towns. He was favourable to the principle of the measure, but he trusted that the hon. Gentleman would consent to refer it to a Committee. It was not a party question, but a matter of great importance both to Whigs and Tories.
 Mr. Cuthbert Rippon  stated, as a matter of undeniable fact, that these petitions were got up by the clergy, the authors being none other than the pious and political brotherhood known as the Dean and Chapter of Durham, aided by the patriotic body called the Durham Conservative Society. It was set forth that these petitions conveyed the general opinions of the men of the county of Durham. Now, in Gateshead there were 508 electors; of these but twenty had signed the Petition from Gateshead. Gateshead contained a population of 15,000, yet among all these the reverend petition-hawkers had not been able to raise the other fifty-eight names appended to the petition, for not a few of this number were collected from the neighbourhood—in one or two cases from a distance of not less than ten miles. With these facts before their eyes, the House of Commons would not for an instant, he trusted, allow such petitions as these to be foisted upon them as expressing the real feeling of a great and influential county. The two respectable bodies he had spoken of above, were but too happy in having persuaded the hon. Member opposite to become as it were the conduit-pipe of the overflowings of their religious bigotry and political rancour.
 Mr. Callaghan  called the attention of the House to the peculiar case of the last
 848
 Mr. Barnard  suggested the propriety of prohibiting the employment of vessels in the emigrant service that were twenty-two years old.
 Mr. Shaw  objected to the Bill on two grounds; first, that it would remove the great practical impediment to the celebration of clandestine Marriages by Roman Catholic priests, imposed by the 19th George 2nd., and expressly left unrepealed by the Act introduced by the Attorney-General for Ireland (Mr. Perrin) in the year 1832, when he did Repeal the Law enacting the penalties—which he (Mr. Shaw) admitted were unduly severe—of death, and fine of 500 l.; Perrin:
 Mr. Shaw  could not avoid congratulating the hon. and learned Member for Drogheda (Mr. O'Dwyer) on his new office of a lecturer on gentlemanly manners and temperate language; the House should know exactly how the law stood at present; the 12th George 1st. inflicted the penalty of death both on Roman Catholic priest and degraded clergyman; then the 33rd, George 3rd, superadded the fine of 500 l. 864
 Mr. Shaw  said, he had got from the Library the statute to which he had referred, and as the hon. Gentleman (Mr. O'Connnell) had denied its existence, and the right hon. Gentleman (the Attorney-General for Ireland) insisted that it did not inflict the penalty of death on degraded clergymen, he hoped the House would allow him to read it. It was the 12th George 1st., c. 3, entitled, "An Act to prevent marriages by degraded clergymen and Popish priests," and provided, "that if any Popish priest, or any degraded clergyman, shall celebrate any marriage between two Protestants, or reputed Protestants, or between a Protestant, or reputed Protestant, and a Papist, such Popish priest, and such degraded clergyman, shall be and is hereby declared to be guilty of felony, and shall suffer death as a felon."
 Mr. Shaw  was of a different opinion so far as Ecclesiastical Courts went. All which he and his friends asked was, that in all these cases of clandestine marriages, the party celebrating them should incur the penalty of a misdemeanour.
 Mr. Shaw  desired to deprive the prisoner of no advantage, and thought that no consideration of time or convenience should weigh for a moment against the interests of justice; but his opinion was, that neither the advantage of the prisoner, nor the better Administration of justice, would be promoted by the Bill. The question was, not whether you would allow Counsel to the prisoner, for that the law did already—but whether Counsel should make speeches to the jury. They had, under the present system, ample means of addressing the Court on points of law, and suggesting all the important facts or views of a case upon which they might rely on cross-examination to the Jury. He had no objection to equalize the law in this respect, in the case of prosecution and defence—but if the Bill passed in its present form, it would impose a kind of necessity on an inferior class of the profession to address the Jury in every minor case of felony, and he did not consider that would be advantageous to the prisoner—but on the contrary, the Judge, in preventing the Jury from being
 868
 Mr. Shaw  was anxious that the law on the subject should be known and clear, and complained that the decisions of the Youghall and Ennis Committees were directly opposed to those of the Longford and Monaghan Committees, as to revising the decision of the Registering Barrister. Even if the law were bad, it would be better that it should be uniform.
 Mr. Sinclair  thought that prisoners and prosecutors should at least be put on an equal footing.
 Mr. Hedworth Lambton  said, that as one of the Members for the county of Durham, he should be extremely sorry that the House or the country should receive these petitions as an expression of the opinion of that county. In behalf not only of himself and his hon. Colleague, but of a great majority of their constitu-
 844
 Mr. Aglionby  did not oppose the second reading of the Bill, but he suggested that it should be postponed, as he knew that the hon. Member for Middlesex had prepared a Bill on the subject. It appeared to be the wish of all parties that a Bill on the principle of this measure should be passed into a law, as it would tend to lessen the expenses of elections and put down corruption. From what had come out before the Election Committees, it appeared that nearly all the acts of bribery were committed on the second day of the election, and he had no doubt that by increasing the number of polling places, any election might be got through in one day. The Bill was certainly short and simple, but he did not think that the machinery was sufficient. He happened to know that the Bill the hon. Member for Middlesex had prepared on the subject, was much better in that respect.
 Mr. Labouchere  was anxious that no restrictions should be imposed on ship-owners which could be avoided, but the general poverty of emigrants made it necessary that the Legislature should protect them. Such dreadful scenes had been heard of in consequence of ships proceeding to sea imperfectly equipped and provided, that the Legislature was bound to prevent such scenes if possible.
 Mr. Warburton  thought that the powers proposed to be conferred on Custom House officers of absolutely rejecting a stock of provisions already shipped, might be tendered the source of great abuse in outports, where it would be difficult to obtain a fresh supply, except from a favourite of the officer, and at a ruinous price.
 Mr. Warburton  recommended the hon. Member to withdraw the Bill for the present, and bring it forward in an amended form. He very much doubted whether they could not in this Bill get rid of one of the three questions put to the voter on his tendering his vote. The question he
 855
 Mr. Warburton  strongly objected to the restriction. It would act as a premium on the building of a bad class of vessels,
 858
 Mr. Poulter : If the hon. and learned Member for Dublin meant to say, that in the lapse of ages such a case could be adduced he (Mr. Poulter) would admit that it was simply possible; but what did it arise from? Not from the want of a speech being made by Counsel, but from the infirmity of human knowledge. He begged, however, of all cases, to exclude from their consideration whatever might have occurred in Ireland.
 Mr. Poulter : What—authenticated?
 Mr. Poulter  thought, that much error prevailed on this question. He approved of the proposition that prisoners should address the Jury by Counsel in all cases where the prosecutor's Counsel should have previously addressed the Jury. But by the present practice prisoners had a great advantage; because it was not necessary for any prisoner to establish a case of innocence. The argument, therefore, for giving Counsel to prisoners, was a great fallacy. He would rather leave them with the benefit they now enjoyed in the mode of administering the Criminal laws of this country. Nobody could present a single authenticated case of innocence having been convicted for want of the aid of Counsel.
 Mr. Roebuck  believed that the loss of life was caused rather by the ships being unseaworthy than by the want of provisions on the voyage. He must add that precautions were necessary, for last year there were 30,000 emigrants (for the most part quite destitute) sent out to Canada without any supplies to keep them from starving during the five or six months that the country was bound up in frost and snow.
 Mr. Hume  recommended the adoption of the practice of Government, which caused a strict inspection of vessels that offered to take troops abroad, and suggested that no vessel should be allowed to take passengers on board unless similarly inspected and approved. The age of vessels could never be a satisfactory guide. He had sailed very safely in a ship seventy-two years old.
 Mr. Hume  had no objection to impose a penalty on masters or mates who should sell any spirits to emigrants on a voyage, but he did not think it just to limit the owners' right to ship what cargo he pleased.
 Mr. Hume  had prepard a Bill on this subject, but had abstained from introducing it until he had seen what the Registration Committee intended to do. He would also recommend his hon. Friend either to wait till that Committee had made its report, or at once to refer the Bill to that Committee, or any other. It ought not to escape recollection, that a Committee last year recommended that the chief provision of this Bill should receive the sanction of the Legislature. The Registration Committee had met that day, and had made great progress with their labours, and he thought that very shortly after Friday next they ought to see the Report laid on the Table. He, for one, was most anxious to promote the success of the principle of the measure, although he did not think that the details were sufficiently explicit.
 Mr. Hume  was much against the minute and vexatious legislation pursued in Bills of this nature. He thought it would be quite as consistent to order an inspection of the steam-boiler of a packet preparatory to every trip, for it might blow up and destroy the passengers if not kept in a sound working condition, as had indeed frequently happened.
 Mr. Hume  called attention to the fifth Clause, empowering the inspecting officer to examine the provisions, &c, immediately previous to sailing. He thought this interference would be likely to cause injurious delays to vessels on the point of sailing, and suggested that the officer should be required to complete his search a certain number of days previous—say three; or, better still, that the provisions should be examined and approved of before shipment.
 Mr. Hume  could see no objection to the use of wine or brandy casks. He thought it would be quite sufficient to declare "that the officer shall satisfy himself that the casks had not been filled with any thing to render the water unhealthy or impure."
 Mr. Hume  said, that he was only waiting until the Attorney-General for Ireland was in his place, in order to bring in a Bill to remedy the evil.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  did not think that the hon. Member for Dublin had fairly stated the case respecting the Corporation of Dublin, and he said this with the more confidence, as he had been engaged in the case professionally. The Corporation contended that no person had a right to his freedom either by birth, servitude, or marriage; but they contended that they were bound to consider the circumstances of each case. The Corporation had always claimed this discretionary power, and it had been admitted by the Court of King's Bench. The decision of Chief Baron Joy was also in favour of the point contended for by the Corporation. The point upon which that learned Judge gave his decision had been raised by the hon. and learned Gentleman, and had been opposed by himself. At the same time the Judge also admitted that any person had a right to have his name entered on the register if he showed the certificate of the town clerk.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, that he did not understand his right hon. Friend (Mr. Shaw) in the observations he made to advocate a continuance of the penal code—on the contrary, what his right hon. Friend urged, and what he (Mr. Jackson) demanded, was a law bearing equally upon all classes of his Majesty's subjects—which the Bill before the House manifestly was not. He maintained that the view taken of the law by his right hon. Friend was correct, as he had abundantly proved by the law he had just quoted. By the law, as cited by his right hon. Friend, if a Roman Catholic priest or a degraded Protestant clergyman celebrated a clandestine marriage, he subjected himself to the penalty of death. That law was so far repealed as regarded the Roman Catholic clergyman, and a penalty of 500 l. Perrin l. 863
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson : Do the Ecclesiastical Courts hold a marriage to be good when no ceremony has been performed?
 Mr. Jackson  was satisfied that, in cases of circumstantial evidence, the Prisoner's Counsel ought to be allowed to address the Jury.
 Mr. Pease,  as one of the Members for Durham, wished to state the manner in which those petitions were got up, especially as his former statement on that point had been controverted by the hon. Member opposite. He had received a letter from a most respectable constituent of his on the subject, which he would read to the House. The hon. Member accordingly read the letter. The writer stated, that having seen his (Mr. Pease's) statement contradicted by the hon. Member, Mr. Trevor, he begged to furnish him, with evidence as to the way in which those petitions were got up. The writer said, that he had signed one of those petitions, and that he was not only ignorant of the nature of its contents, but that he had been grossly deceived on that point by one of the persons who had been sent round the county with blank sheets to obtain signatures to the petition. He (the writer) asked that person if the petition contained anything contrary to the Motion of Lord John Russell, and his reply was "no; not in any shape." In consequence of that statement, he (the writer) affixed his signature to the blank sheet. He had since conversed with others who had signed similar petitions, and who complained of having been treated in the same way. The writer said, that when the sheets with signatures were filled, they were sent to Durham, and pasted on the petition there, which had been got up by the clergy. His correspondent, in conclusion, had appealed to him to know, as this petition was a gross lie and misrepresentation, whether it was not one which should be expunged from the records of the House? Many who had signed those petitions had been deceived like the writer of this letter, though he was ready to say that several of the names he saw to them were the signatures of persons entertaining such sentiments as the petitions expressed. In voting for the appropriation Clause, he had voted in accordance with the feelings and sentiments of the great majority of his constituents.
 Mr. Perrin : They do.
 Mr. Perrin  said, that he had been under the impression that there did not any such penalty exist as that referred to by his learned Friends opposite, for such a law had never been carried into execution; but if it existed, he was ready to remove it. There was no Marriage-law in Ireland, and the peculiarity of the case was this—that whereas if no ceremony whatever were performed between a Roman Catholic and Protestant, and that they acknowledged themselves to be man and wife, the marriage was lawful, but if a marriage were celebrated between the parties by a Roman Catholic Priest, the marriage was null and void. It was to get
 865
 Mr. Sheil  said, that it was quite clear that this was a grievance that ought to be remedied, and the Cork election illustrated it. A number of persons had been registered who had no right to vote; some of these had been struck out by the Committee, and others remained—their cases not having been investigated. At the Cork election, the barrister who attended on the part of the sheriff, said, that his opinion was, that they were not entitled to vote; but as they were upon the register, he felt himself precluded from rejecting them. If another election were to take place to-morrow, many of these would offer themselves, and on the same ground could not be refused, excepting after the inquiry of a Committee, which might cost the candidate 5,000 l. l. .l l., 849
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  considered the point suggested by the Attorney-General to be one of very great importance, and he hoped that it would become a matter of legislation—namely, that whenever the right of voting had been properly adjudicated upon the appeal tribunal, that it would be considered as finally settled. He did not think that it was right that the vote should be disputed after it had been fairly put on the register. He trusted that very shortly a proper appeal tribunal would be established, before which disputed votes could be determined, and after the decision of which it would not be allowable for any person to impeach a vote. This principle obtained in the ancient system in Scotland, and whenever a name was placed on the roll, no person could dispute the validity of the vote, provided the right on which it was held was not transferred—neither the Court of Session nor the House of Commons had ever done so.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  had never heard in the course of all the discussions that had taken place on this subject a single reason or a single argument, allied to common sense, that operated on his mind the conviction that prisoners ought not to have Counsel. It was a common phrase, indeed, that the Judge was Counsel for the prisoner. The fact, however, was not so; neither was it the business of a Judge to assume that character. It was his duty to see that nothing was done against the prisoner contrary to law; but so also was it his duty to see that justice was done towards the Crown. Besides, how could the Judge be Counsel for the prisoner, he being totally ignorant of the case that might be urged on his (the prisoner's) behalf. He trusted, therefore, that he should never hear that argument again. The Bill itself had his entire concurrence.
 Mr. Sergeant Talfourd  was quite willing to allow, for the sake of argument, that there was nothing but the justice of the case to be argued in favor of the Bill. He believed it would be found that the most eminent Counsel were in the habit of strongly exciting prejudice and ill-feeling towards prisoners. He would allude to the case of a Mr. Thatcher, tried at Warwick, where the prisoner had not only to contend with all the prejudice which the prosecutor had raised against him, but the Counsel for the prosecution at the close of a most ingenious speech, declared that "the murderer was unmasked." Another case which he recollected was that of a person who was indicted for a rape upon a young lady, the daughter of a master of the ceremonies at one of our watering-places. Not only did Mr. Erskine, who was Counsel for the prosecution on that occasion invest the supposed victim with all the charms which his fascinating eloquence could throw around her; but he concluded by pointing to the prisoner at the bar, and asking the Jury "whether they could suppose it possible that the plaintiff could have gone, voluntarily, into the arms of the squalid wretch before them?" These were the terms in which the Counsel addressed the Court against prisoners, who had not an opportunity of saying a word in their defence. Such addresses as these would scarcely be endured at the Bar now; but he deprecated still more the want of warmth which at present prevailed; the Counsel for the prosecution laying the facts before the Court in such a mode, as to present a hideous picture of the prisoner's crime to the minds of the Jury, and then taking credit to himself for a mercy the most insidious and dangerous that could be conceived. In a case of circumstantial evidence, the prisoner was not only without adequate defence, but without any defence at all. The means of cross-examination seemed, to those not behind the scenes, more effective and powerful than the person who understood the machinery of these matters knew it to be. It might sometimes, produce such an effect as to confound a foolish witness, and deceive the best. It was, however, much more
 872
 Mr. Ewart  recommended that this subject should not be mixed up with others, but that it should be referred to a Committee up stairs, with directions to report on it with as little delay as possible.
 Mr. Harland  said, that of the ten Members for Durham county, not less than seven had voted for the appropriation of the Irish Church Revenues; nor could it be said, that this majority did not represent the opinions of their constituents; for at the last election one of the main subjects spoken of from the hustings was this very measure, the support of which was forcibly impressed upon the Members in receiving the support of the electors. He would not go into any details as to the means which had been had recourse to in getting up those petitions; he would only
 845
 Mr. W. Smith O'Brien  reminded hon. Members that if the officer were not allowed to use his discretion, oil casks might be used, which would render the water very unpleasant if not unhealthy. He was aware that many vessels left Limerick last season with emigrants, and all water on board of them was contained in oil casks.
 Mr. W. Smith O'Brien  knew that out of 2,500 poor emigrants who left Limerick last year, 500 died on the passage. Vessels had set sail for America in a state not fit to cross the channel to England, the proof of which was that from the third day after their departure the pumps were obliged to be kept going all the voyage.
 Sir G. Grey  thought that the only practicable way to prevent these evils was to prohibit the export of any spirits in vessels fitted out to take passengers.
 The Attorney-General  was anxious, before the Speaker left the Chair, to make a few observations in justification of himself, against a censure which had been cast upon him out of doors, in consequence of his not having expressed his sentiments with regard to the principle and provisions of this Bill on its second reading. He did not then attend the House, for this plain reason—that he had, in a former Session of Parliament, expressed his entire approbation of the principle of the Bill. He now begged to say, that after long deliberation on the subject, his clear opinion was, that in cases of felony, of misdemeanours, and of high treason, the party accused in the Criminal Courts of this country ought to have the opportunity of making his defence by Counsel.
 The Attorney-General  said, that marriages were held to be valid where no ceremony had been performed.
 The Attorney-General,  in the absence of his hon. and learned Friend who held the same situation in Ireland, admitted that it was of great importance that a Bill
 851
 The Attorney-General  opposed the Amendment: it was very plausible but it would have the effect of placing the rights of the prisoner in the custody of the prosecutor. In many cases it might happen, whether intentionally or not, that the Counsel for the prosecution would also abstain from making a statement to the Jury, and thus deprive the prisoner of his right just when he most needed it, for instance when the Counsel for the prosecution could make out a strong  prima facie 873
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  said, he had no objection to Prisoner's Counsel addressing the Jury in capital cases, but in petty larceny trials he thought it would be most inexpedient.
 Sir Robert Peel  remarked, that the objection of the hon. and learned Member for Tipperary (Mr. Sheil) was applicable in principle, whether registration took place every year, as in England, or only once in eight years, as in Ireland. What he had said was this—that the Committee decided that certain voters of Cork were disqualified; but that certain other voters, whose cases had not been entered into, were equally disqualified; and that they ought not to be allowed to vote again, should an election occur. It certainly aggravated the case where the registration lasted eight years; but the principle was the same where the registration was every year. He thought the case of the hon. Member for Cork a strong one; for if two hundred other voters had no more right to poll than the two hundred struck off by the Committee they might give the same trouble at the next election that those already struck off had occasioned at the last. It seemed out of the question to leave the register so defective; but the difficulty was, to find a tribunal to determine who did, or who did not, come within the rule laid down by the Committee. If there had been no examination into these cases by the Committee, how was the point to be decided? It seemed to him better to adopt the Resolution of the noble Lord, and to apply some subsequent enactment to cases like that of the city of Cork. Member 850
 Sir Robert Peel  thought that it was desirable, if it could be so arranged, to diminish the period for taking the poll. If this were done he had no doubt it would lessen the expense of elections, tend to
 853
 Mr. Williams Wynn  objected to power being granted to Roman Catholic priests of celebrating marriages between Roman Catholics and Protestants.
 Mr. Clay  submitted that the example of the East-India Company (with respect to the systematic inspection to which their ships were subjected previous to a voyage) was the best that could be followed in the present case. The happy effects of this course was that the Company's insurance did not amount to one-sixth of the ordinary rates, for no ship of theirs was allowed to sail unless first approved sea-worthy. Their ship-stores never spoiled or afforded subject of complaint; in fact, no bad provisions were offered to their vessels, for it was well known that they would previously be inspected. If emigrant vessels were compelled to adopt similar salutary arrangements, they would no longer hear the just complaints of poor passengers respecting the deficient quantity or deteriorated quality of their provisions.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  said, that his opinion of the bodies alluded to, was so very different from that expressed in no measured terms by the hon. Member, that he was very proud of being thought worthy to become their conduit-pipe. It had always been his principle, however, to bring forward any petitions with the presentation of which he might be honoured in an open and candid way, to afford hon. Members every facility for giving their opinions on the contents of them. His position in reference to his constituents, was one of great difficulty and delicacy, but being the only Member for that part of the country who sat on that (the Opposition) side of the House, it was not unnatural that persons entertaining opinions
 846
 Mr. Arthur Trevor,  in presenting several Petitions against the appropriation of the Irish Church Revenues from Gateshead, Chester-le-Street, and other places in the county of Durham, observed, that it having been affirmed on a former occasion by the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Pease) that such Petitions as these were "got up" by the Clergy of the Diocese, he (Mr. A. Trevor) had caused inquiries to be made on the subject, and he had ascertained that though the Clergy had of course been active in promoting such petitions, they had never rendered themselves liable to the charge of getting them up in the way described by the hon. Member for South Durham.
 Lord Morpeth  replied, that if that Bill passed it would be highly desirable to increase the number of polling places.
 Mr. Andrew Johnston,  in rising to move an Address to the Crown relative to Church patronage in Scotland, regretted that it had fallen to his duty to introduce the subject he had then to bring before the House. It was
 883 884 885 886
 Major Beauclerk  begged, as one of the Representatives for the division of Surrey from which this petition came, to say that it certainly was signed by a very respectable body of persons. He was sure, however, that his hon. Colleague would not put it upon the House as a petition representing the feeling of the county of Surrey. It was signed by 2,000 individuals, but not 2,000 voters or electors. Seeing that the county of Surrey was one of the largest and most populous in the kingdom, and knowing that this petition had been carried about the county from one end to the other of it, he was only surprised that so few names were attached to it. The hon. and gallant Gentleman, he was sure, would bear him out in the statement, that the petition had been so carried about. In fact, during
 875
 Mr. Robinson  said, as the hon. Member for Bath had alluded to a Bill by which the British American Land Company was established, he wished to observe, that that Bill was introduced when Lord Goderich was Colonial Secretary, and had received the sanction of his noble Friend (Lord Stanley). The hon. Member for Bath said, that the rights of the Canadian people were infringed by that Bill. If that were the case, it was the hon. Member's bounden duty to have opposed it at the time of its progress through that House; but if he were ignorant that such a Bill, had been introduced, how could he account for his utter ignorance of the Parliamentary business of that House, with which he ought to have made himself acquainted; but it was his belief, that the hon. Member was aware of the progress of that Bill; and having received communications from Canada, stating that he ought to have opposed it, he now came down to the House and stated, that the Bill passed in a secret manner. He would take the liberty of telling the hon. Member for Bath, that his conduct as agent to the Legislative Assembly would be inconsistent with his duty as a Member of that House, if, instead of endeavouring to settle the unhappy differences which existed between the mother country and the colony, he made use of language only calculated to throw additional difficulties in the way of adjustment.
 Mr. Labouchere  was so sensible of the great mischief which resulted from allowing charges and assertions, such as had been made, to go forth to the colony, particularly in a state of great excitement, without contradiction, that he would, with the leave of the House, make a few observations in reply to what had fallen from the hon. Member. The 31,000 l. 880 881
 Mr. Labouchere  entirely acquitted the hon. Member of any intentional design to publish the evidence.
 Mr. Freshfield  was one of the constituents of the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had just spoken, and he begged to assure him, that he was quite mistaken in his estimate of the state of feeling in the county of Surrey on this subject. If that hon. and gallant Member would only persevere in adopting and acting upon the sentiments he had just avowed, and if he would wait patiently till a dissolution of Parliament should take place, he would be furnished with a most convincing proof, that he did not represent the feelings of the county of Surrey.
 Mr. Roebuck,  on presenting a Petition from the House of Assembly of Lower Canada, contrasted the intentions of the late and present Government with regard to Canada. The late Government had resolved to act; they determined to send out a Commissioner to redress grievances; but the present Government intended to do nothing more than to send out a Commission of Inquiry into grievances which were known very well already. He complained of the audiences given by Lord Glenelg to two unaccredited individuals from Canada (Messrs. Neilson and Walker). The names of these two gentlemen were continually published in the  Court Circular, 876
 Mr. Roebuck  observed, that he gave hon. Members opposite the credit of having good intentions, and he hoped he should have the same credit given to him. He was not an anarchist; he had no desire to separate the colony from this country, but because he was desirous of stating what he knew to be the truth, and to instruct the House in a matter of which they were ignorant, and the truth happened to be unpleasant, the House visited him with their displeasure, instead of reserving it for those who had given occasion to the complaints which he had preferred. The hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey) had intimated his doubts whether he (Mr. Roebuck) had enjoyed the confidence of the late Government. He certainly had not, and he could assure the hon. Baronet that he had no desire to cultivate the confidence of the present Administration. He had, however, never complained of Lord Glenelg; he had received from him all the courtesy he could shew, nor did he complain of discourtesy at the hands of the noble Lord who formerly filled the same office: but that he had not attended to the wishes of the colony. As to the publication of the evidence given before the Committee on the affairs of Canada, he had stated over and over again, that so far from having communicated any of the evidence to the parties who published it, he had told the parties who had obtained possession of it, that the publication of it would be contrary to good policy and propriety. He had certainly quoted some parts of the evidence, but those were generally known.
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask who were the other Commissioners?
 Mr. Hume  said, that his hon. Friend, the Member for Bath, was no more to blame than he was himself, that the Bill alluded to by the hon. Member for Worcester passed the House. His hon. Friend was not the agent of the Assembly of Lower Canada during the passing of that Bill. The Legislative Assembly of that province claimed to have the management of all the revenues raised in it which was conceded to them by the Constitution of 1792. But these revenues were withdrawn from their control, and were distributed at the sole pleasure of the Colonial-office, without any control over such expenditure by the House of Commons, or of the colony in which they were raised, and for whose advantage they ought to be laid out. These revenues had been jobbed, and were now jobbing, for jobbing he would call it, since the House had no control over the distribution of the money,
 879 l.
 Captain Alsager  presented a Petition from the Eastern Division of Surrey, signed by 2,000 Individuals, against the alienation of the Revenues of the Church of Ireland to other than Ecclesiastical purposes. As this petition was of so important a nature, as it was so perfectly in accordance with his own feelings, and as it was signed by a number of individuals for whom he had the highest respect, he begged to call the attention of the House to its prayer. It prayed, in the first instance, that the House would pause before it appropriated any portion of the revenues of the Church to other than the purposes to which they were applied. It next called the attention of the House to the propriety of making a grant for the endowment of Churches in Scotland. For his part, he must say, that he was only surprised at the smallness of the grant asked for in that case, and he was astonished to find it opposed in any quarter in that House. The petitioners expressed their apprehensions as to the projects which had been avowed and brought forward in that House with respect to Church Establishments. They, in conclusion, prayed the House to pause, and well consider, before it decided on a Question that agitated the minds of all persons throughout the empire.
 Sir George Grey  thought he should best consult the interests of this country and of Canada by abstaining from discussing the different topics contained in the petition, as it was well known that a Commission was to proceed to Canada for the purpose of making inquiries respecting the grievances complained of by the inhabitants of that country; and he must say, that in his opinion, the Government did right in not excluding from the investigation of that Commission, grievances which had been alleged in other petitions besides those which had been presented by the hon. Member for Bath. However, some observations had fallen from that hon. Member, to which he was desirous of offering a reply. In the first place the hon. Member complained, that Messrs. Neilson and Walker had been received by the noble Lord at the head of the Colonial Department. It was undoubtedly true that those gentlemen had been received by that noble Lord; for as they had come
 877 878
 Sir G. Grey  said Sir C. Grey, who had been for many years Chief Justice of Calcutta, and Captain Gipps, late private secretary to Lord Auckland.
 Sir George Grey  said it was, and that it would appear in the first  Gazette.
 Sir George Grey  said it was impossible to answer the question of the right hon. Baronet without in the first place knowing when it was likely the Canadian Assembly would meet; and, secondly, without knowing how long the present Session of the British Parliament would continue. He thought the information asked for ought not to be made public till Lord Gosford had had an opportunity of communicating officially with the Canadian Assembly. It was possible that after Lord Gosford had had that opportunity the communication might be laid before the House of Commons during this Session.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he should deprecate that event most sincerely. He quite agreed that the first communication of the intention of the Government ought to be made by Lord Gosford to the Canadian Assembly; but, after that had been done, he could not see the necessity of delaying the information to the House of Commons till after a correspondence had been received from the Canadian Assembly.
 Sir Robert Peel  asked if there was any intention on the part of Government to lay before the Parliament, during the present session, information of the course intended to be pursued with respect to Canada. There might be objections to communicating the instructions that were given by Lord Aberdeen to Lord Amherst; but he wished to know if it was meant to communicate to Parliament in the course of the present Session what were the points upon which it was expected a settlement could be accomplished by Lord Gosford, in his capacity of Governor of Canada, distinguishing those points from the points on which it would be likely further inquiry might necessarily have to be made?
 Sir Robert Peel  wished to ask the hon. Baronet if the Commission was complete.
 Mr. Mark Phillips  considered that the matter complained of was a very great hardship on the poor people. He had never expected that the Bill would give satisfaction to the class of people for whom the House was legislating, and he now regretted much that he had been so true a prophet. The House would surely think that the payment of the 6 d. s.
 Mr. O'Connell  took the liberty of saying that the statements of the right hon. and learned Gentleman were totally false. It was true that Catholic Clergymen had spoken at elections, and seconded the nomination of candidates; for instance, one of them seconded Mr. Vigors, a Protestant Member. Their speeches were printed and published, and it would be seen that they did not deserve the character given them by the correspondents of the right hon. Gentleman as to their existing violence. Were there not many persons in Ireland who would be ready, and were exceedingly anxious for opportunities, to prosecute them, if they said one word that would make them liable? But their protection was, that they carefully avoided violating the law, while, as men and citizens, they exercised that right to which they were entitled. But, on the other hand, there was violence used against the Catholics by the Orange party, particularly in one county, for no other reason than because they were Catholics. Was the right hon. Gentleman aware that almost all the Protestant clergy interfered with elections? [" No, no.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he would deny that his assertions were disproved in that case. Mr. Shaw's own documents did not substantiate his former accusation.
 Colonel Evans  could not see the necessity which existed for the present Motion. The Members of the late Government did not think it necessary to call for the production of any papers to vindicate their characters respecting the objects they had in view in the formation of the Convention. Neither did the present Ministry attempt to arraign those motives, or to cast any blame on the conduct of the Commissioners who executed it. On the contrary, they had given their predecessors unqualified praise for this portion of their foreign policy. There was, therefore, a perfect coincidence of opinion on this subject between the parties in England whose characters and interests might be chiefly affected by it. For my own part (said the gallant Colonel) I at first felt somewhat uncertain what had been the effect of this measure in Spain, and made anxious and particular inquiries with respect to its operation on the parties whose conduct it was intended to influence. I have now, however, great pleasure in stating that, from all which I can learn, the conduct of the noble Duke throughout the negotiation has been marked by an entire fidelity to existing treaties—to the honour of England and the obligations she had entered into relative to the recognition of constitutional liberty abroad. I now feel convinced that he has pursued a sound and faithful as well as benevolent policy in his late measures adopted towards Spain. If there has been anything that can fairly be complained of in connexion with any part of the transaction, it is the subsequent indiscretion of a gallant acquaintance of mine, (Colonel Gurwood) relative to a reported conversation with an illustrious individual abroad (the King of the French) as stated in the newspapers. I have little doubt that the opinions and sentiments attributed to these individuals are much distorted in the statement which appeared; but, however that may be, no blame attaches either to the noble Duke for the spirit
 916
 An Hon. Member  congratulated the House that the Question had been brought forward, as it had elicited so much to be approved of in the conduct of those who had the management of the humane negotiation as well as the honour of England in their hands. He was inclined to give credit to Lord John Russell for his motives in withholding the papers referred to at this crisis. It was highly gratifying to find the successors of those who had filled the most important trusts coming forward to vouch for the integrity, honour, and regard to public faith which their predecessors had evinced in the discharge of their duties. Indeed, it was a subject of just congratulation to Englishmen, that notwithstanding the frequent changes which had lately taken place in the Government of this country which tended to give to foreign countries an impression of the instability of our country, but one feeling prevailed as to the execution of the treaties which had been entered into. The British Government might be prevented from any direct interference with the state of Spain, but he thought it advisable that on every occasion the subject should be brought under the attention of the British public, and that every possible opportunity ought to be taken to express a sentiment which might strengthen the relations of amity that subsisted between the two parties.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, after the satisfactory statement of the noble Lord he would suggest to the hon. Member for Finsbury that the right course would be for him to withdraw his Motion. The House must be perfectly satisfied with what this Convention had effected. It was delightful to understand that the first result of this stipulation, or Convention, or whatever it was, was the saving of human life. It appeared that the Queen's ministers and generals were satisfied with the Convention; therefore he did not see why any one in this country should quarrel with it. He would once more express his hope that his hon. Friend would not persevere with his Motion.
 Lord Stanley  was understood to say, that the clause in question had no reference to such a punishment.
 Lord Stanley : I must inform the hon. Gentleman, that he labours under a misapprehension. The Clause to which he refers, directs that a line of 5 l.
 Mr. O'Connell  would also implore his hon. Friend to withdraw his Motion. Every object that he could have in bringing it forward must have been amply answered in the speech which had been made by the right hon. Baronet. He (Mr. O'Connell) derived a consolation, and an assurance that the views of negro emancipists would be fully met, not only from the propriety and accuracy of the materials of which the right hon. Baronet's speech was composed, but also from the liberal spirit which pervaded and gave a character to every passage of it. From all that had been stated, the hon. Member must now be satisfied that all those abuses of which he complained were watched over with a vigilant eye friendly to the Emancipation of negroes, and willing to punish any acts of oppression on the part of their tyrants. Opposed as he had been to the original grant of twenty millions, he still felt bound to say, that the country
 960
 Mr. Crawford  had a similar petition from a considerable body of the merchants of London to present, but he would make no observation alter the able statement of the right hon. Gentleman.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that as his hon. Friend, the Member for Liverpool (Mr. Ewart) had given notice of a Motion upon the subject, to which the petitions just presented related, perhaps it would be as well that he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) should pave the way by moving a Resolution. On accepting office, it undoubtedly became one of his first duties to consider the very important Question which was then about to be brought before the Committee; and having collected, from several different sources, but, at the same time, sources in which he placed the utmost confidence, that the Question had been brought under the consideration of the late Government, he naturally felt desirous of ascertaining in what condition it had been left by them. When the present Government came into office, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) found that a very general impression had gone abroad, that it was the intention of their predecessors to renew the sugar duties for the present year, according to the scale now existing. That being the case, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) became anxious to ascertain whether it were the fact or not; because he felt that at all times, and more especially at a period when the value of colonial property was rapidly fluctuating, that if there were one duty more incumbent than another upon those who were called upon to discharge the offices of Government, it was not lightly to abandon any engagement, or to disappoint any expectation which might have been held out by those who had previously composed the Administration. If, in addition to all the other inevitable inconveniences consequent upon a change of Government, all the implied or expressed
 963 964 965
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  begged to correct the error into which his hon. Friend had fallen. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had already stated not only that no pledge had been given, but that the right hon. Baronet lately at the head of the Government, had distinctly assured him that he had given none, but he had taken the same opportunity of stating, that, from official information derived from the Government, although no pledge was given, the Colonial agents had been induced to communicate to their correspondents that no alteration would be made in the sugar duties.
 Mr. Chapman  expressed his deep regret at the declaration of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that no alteration was to be made in the existing duties during the present Session. Nothing would tend to promote commerce with India or encourage the shipping interest more than an alteration of the sugar duties. Ships from India were now obliged to bring one-third of their cargoes in stones, while sugar was lying on the beach.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would be extremely sorry to have it inferred, as perhaps might be the case, in consequence of the observations, which had just fallen
 972
 Mr. Goulburn  expressed his entire concurrence in the sentiments of the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and in the course the right hon. Gentleman proposed to adopt. He hoped that the Question would receive the fullest and calmest consideration, and that his Majesty's Government would not allow themselves to be led away by statements of particular individuals.
 Mr. Cressett Pelham  was understood to argue against the principle of interference in the civil wars of neighbouring States, and the danger of establishing a precedent for foreign interference in England. What, he would ask, would Oliver Cromwell have said if Louis 14th had claimed a right to interfere to protect the Royalist prisoners taken during the wars of the Commonwealth, when England was struggling for liberty? As he had mentioned the name of Cromwell he must do
 915
 Lord John Russell  said that, in the first place, he had to apologise for the absence of his noble Friend, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs. He would have been present, had it not been that he had been required to attend his Majesty at Windsor. With regard to the Motion of his hon. Friend, he begged to state that he had seen the Convention that had been entered into by Lord Eliot and Colonel Gurwood between the commanders of the contending armies in the Biscayan provinces, and his Majesty's Government would have no objection to lay it before the House. With respect to the instructions given to Colonel Gurwood, he begged to observe that he did not believe that there was any instance of any instructions having been made public; and he doubted whether it would not be found extremely inconvenient to lay instructions of this nature before Parliament. With respect to the second part of the Motion, that all the reports and communications of Lord Eliot and Colonel Gurwood should be laid before the House, he must say that such a course was most unusual, and it would not be for the convenience of his Majesty's service, or for the promotion of the public good, to lay the papers before Parliament. His hon. Friend was aware that the contest going on in Spain had been carried on with great fierceness on both sides, and a Convention had been entered into between the two parties, through the intervention of the Commissioners, to diminish the shedding of human blood. He did not think that it would be proper to lay before the House any portion of the documents, until they could be wholly laid on the Table. With respect to the general argument of his hon. Friend, he would only say, that the object of sending the Commissioners out was to put a stop to the useless bloodshed going on in Spain, and to the manner in which the war was carried on in Spain. From the papers he had seen in the Foreign-office, the Duke of Wellington seemed to have carried into effect most fairly and strictly the provisions of the treaty signed last year by the Four Powers; therefore he did
 910
 Lord John Russell  said, that the only objection he had to the production of the papers was, that the information would come before the House in a better way when the Commissioners of the Poor-laws presented their Report, and they informed him that they would be able to do so by
 918
 Mr. O'Dwyer  said the Protestant Clergy interfered much more, and more mischievously, at elections than the priests.
 Mr. Hindley  was also of opinion that the matter was well deserving the interference of the House, because in many cases he thought the inspectors had far exceeded their duty. One of them, Mr. Richards, who was in the populous district of Manchester, had laid down a rule, whereby he had appointed one hundred and fifty surgeons, from whom only he would receive certificates. He had also made it imperative upon boys or girls of sixteen years of age who changed their employment to produce a certificate; and yet if, from any cause, they were within the month again to change they must again produce a fresh certificate, which made such a patronage as the appointment of surgeons valuable. In his report that gentleman stated, as his reason for always requiring fresh certificates, that the children were much in the habit of changing from one master to another, and he thought the tax would have the effect of making them more steady; but he doubted whether the Bill gave him any such powers. The hon. Member for Manchester regretted that a remedy had not been suggested; but the amendment of the Act of last Session which he intended to propose would be a remedy. If some limitation were not fixed as to the age at which children should be employed in these factories, the relief the House was anxious to afford them would not be obtained. He had been told by a respectable manufacturer in Manchester, that even if a child was under ten years' old the surgeon would grant a certificate
 896
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  agreed also in the opinion that the advantages and disad-
 968 969 Hume:
 Mr. Shaw  denied that there was any comparison between the two bodies. The Roman Catholic clergymen proposed and nominated candidates, and dragged the freeholders to the place of polling in a manner which, if it had been done by Protestant clergymen, he should consider most disgraceful. The Protestant clergy, no doubt, exercised the right of suffrage, but then they did not go beyond the pale
 897
 Mr. Shaw  would call the recollection of the House to a recent occasion, on which the hon. and learned Member made the same assertion respecting other correspondence which he (Mr. Shaw) had received. The hon. and learned Member then as confidently asserted as he did now that his (Mr. Shaw's) information was false. The hon. and learned Gentleman was ever ready with his confident assertions, which were afterwards disproved. But what was
 898 O'Connell:
 Mr. Shaw —I leave that to the judgment of the House and the country.
 Mr. George F. Young  thought the equalization of the duties ought to take place gradually, and he hoped that the present Session would not be allowed to close without some notice being given to al interested parties of the intention to alter the existing duties.
 Mr. Aglionby  bore testimony to the respectability of the petitioner and should most cordially support any measure of the hon. Member opposite for the relief of the working classes.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that if it were true, as the noble Lord (Sandon) had stated that extravagant notions were entertained as to the advantages and the disadvantages that would accrue from the equalization of the sugar duties, he hoped the noble Lord would not insist upon what appeared to him unnecessary—viz: that whenever the attempt was made to approximate the produce of the West to the East Indies, in that respect they should only go on by such small and insensible degrees, as could neither be of sensible advantage to the one, nor sensible disadvantage to the other. But as it was acknowledged that the approximation must be made though gradually, why not take a step? If it would not affect either party in a serious degree, why not at once take a step? He thought it would be of great advantage to the East Indies, without being of great disadvantage to the West Indies, because whatever sugar was thus thrown into the market, as to the degree to which it would affect the sugar market, it would only be so far, and in that proportion, which the sugar thus introduced bore to the whole of the sugar brought into the European market: so that the only disadvantage to the West Indies, would be the extent to which such quantity of sugar thrown into the market, affected our market at home, as the price of sugar here was regulated by the price in the market of Europe. He knew not what better opportunity could be had for making the experiment than the present moment, when the competition between the East and West India proprietors would, in consequence of the Slave Emancipation Act, be one of free labour. He wished the Government clearly to explain their intentions on this subject. They seemed to think that to make an alteration of the
 971
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that though he had so recently addressed the House on the oppressions of our West-Indian fellow subjects, he could not refrain from offering a few observations on the grievances of our equally valuable East-Indian fellow subjects among whom he had passed so many years of his life, and whose interests he should always feel it his duty to advocate and defend. There was one short argument, he thought, by which the imperative necessity and absolute justice of reducing the duties on East-Indian produce might be incontrovertibly shown, and to this alone he would confine himself. The House would remember that two years ago, it had granted a new charter of Government to the East-India Company, by which entire freedom of trade was extended to all British subjects, whether English or native-born, by which colonization was to be permitted to all capitalists who chose to settle in India, and by which our shipping and manufacturing interests were all to be greatly benefited. Now, if the Government granted these privileges in a truly honest spirit, and with sincere and upright intentions,—it was indispensable that they should at once reduce the duties on East-India produce to a level at least with those on West-India produce; as without such reduction, free trade was a mockery—colonization a farce—and neither our shipping nor our manufacturing interests could be benefited in the slightest degree. To confirm the charter, therefore, and to prove their own integrity of intention, such reductions were
 973 974 maximum
 Mr. Buckingham  said, he was glad that he had given way to the hon. Baronet, the Under Secretary for the Colonies, as it had enabled him, in common with the House, to enjoy the advantage of listening to the very able and satisfactory speech of that hon. Gentleman—able from the clear and convincing manner in which the statements had been laid before the House, and satisfactory, as containing the solemn declarations and public pledges of his Majesty's Government to see the Abolition Act carried into effect in all its integrity, as far at least as their power and authority could achieve so desirable a result.—As, however, he (Mr. Buckingham) had taken a very deep interest in the Question of Slave Emancipa-
 952 953 954 "The negroes are prone to shamming when they want to escape from labour; but the result of this propensity is, that every sick negro
 955 shammer, "I begged the overseer to withdraw, and again urged her to tell me what was the matter? I could learn nothing except that the marks of a recent flogging were very visible. I imagined it wag the effects of this punishment she meant by 'pain in the skin.' I told her I saw nothing at that time to disqualify her for labour. I called the overseer in, and requested him to allow her some customary gratuity, which had been withheld as a punishment; and that the woman would and must go to labour. The obstinacy of this perverse woman now began to give way; she burst out a crying and said, "Well, Massa! God judge one day 'tween you and me!" I again urged her to inform me of her illness: it was in vain, however; but I satisfied myself there was no shamming in the case. The unfortunate woman was labouring under one of the most awful maladies a female is subject to." 956 "The eighth clause of the amended Abolition Act enabled the apprentice to redeem himself from servitude, upon payment to his master of the appraised value of his services. This clause, had it been so worded as to prevent the misconstruction of its intent would have been the most valuable clause in the whole Act. But, as it stands, the power of procuring a reasonable award is so limited, that I have lately been obliged to dissuade almost every applicant from applying for a valuation. The Corporation have proved stronger than the British Parliament. When a negro applies to the special justice to purchase his liberty, the latter calls upon the master to appoint a local Magistrate to proceed to a valuation. When the two Magistrates meet they name a third, who must also be a local Magistrate; and according to the age, sex, health, and occupation of the negro they ought to decide. There is one thing obvious at the first glance; there are two local Magistrates and one Special Justice; and it is evident that the interests of the slave-owner have been most looked to in this arrangement. The matter respecting the mode of conducting the valuation is so vaguely expressed in the Act, that the amount to be adjudicated is left entirely to the discretion of the Magistrates, without any reference to the scale of valuation; and this unfortunate defect has been the occasion of an immense deal of misunderstanding between the special and local Magistrates. In some instances the estimate has been as high as 170 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. d. 957 958 "Since August, 1834, various outrages have been committed by white people on negroes. One planter has been indicted for shooting at an old woman, and, after wounding her severely, discharged the second barrel at her, but fortunately without effect. The Grand Jury ignored the bill—Another gentleman was indicted at the October Court, for outrage on a sick negro woman. The Grand Jury ignored the bill. Another planter was indicted for the murder of his negro, by shooting him, and was sentenced to nine months' imprisonment.—Another gentleman, an overseer, was committed to gaol a few weeks ago, for the murder of a boy, by shooting at a number of negroes assembled in a hut, in the act of singing hymns. He has not been yet tried, but from the exertions making for him I have no expectation he will be convicted.—Another gentleman was tried in October last, for causing one of his negroes to be severely torn by dogs, for going without permission to bury his wife, who had been dead three days, and had been refused sufficient time to prepare her coffin. The strenuous exertions of the Chief Justice obtained a conviction: he was fined 100 l.
 Mr. Bagshaw  believed, that although no positive pledge was given as to the alteration of these duties when the twenty millions were voted, still it was understood that a simultaneous boon would be given to India. It was the duty of this country more especially at the time when there was a defalcation of the revenue of India, to give encouragement to the growth of sugar in that important colony.
 Dr. Bowring  said, he would be the last person in the House to urge the production of papers in any case in which their being furnished would be likely to embarrass the Members of the Government. He felt bound to add, however, that it was with great gratification that he saw this subject introduced to the notice of the House. The people of Spain were looking, with great anxiety, to what was the feeling of this country with respect to the great struggle in which they were engaged. In that country existed all the elements necessary to the establishment of their future liberty; the slightest expression of sympathy on the part of England would insure their complete developement. No one who had not visited Spain could judge of the degree of affection which was there felt towards this country, or of the extent to which she relied on us for countenance and encouragement; no one who had not visited Spain could know how completely our interests were associated with hers, or how intimately were connected with her success, in her present struggle, the cause of Reform in this country, and of general freedom. If there was any deficiency of sympathy in this country with the cause of good government in Spain, it might be referred to the fact that the Spanish government had not rendered justice to the Spanish people. Don Carlos, in the North, bad associated himself with certain popular feelings; and the existing government of Spain had experienced much difficulty, because it had not, by liberal measures, sufficiently identified itself with the interests of the people. The name of Don Carlos had been associated by the people with ancient and popular institutions, and the government of the Queen had perilled its cause from a want of liberality. It had not found a response to its call in the hearts of the people; it had not even courted an alliance with them; it had shackled the press, and instead of acting on principles of freedom and liberality, had adopted the maxims of arbitrary power. If the Spanish government acted as it ought, there was no danger for the cause. No country in the world was better calculated for popular institutions; and the time might arrive when Spain would be as great as at those periods of her history
 911
 MR. Brotherton  rose to present a Petition from an individual of the name of James Turner, residing at Manchester, complaining of certain practices connected with the Factory Bill, and which he was confident the House, when informed of them, would be of opinion ought to be dispensed with. It would be in the recollection of the House that an Act had passed two years ago for regulating the labour of children in factories. That Act required that no children under eleven years of age should be employed in factories, without producing a certificate of a surgeon, to prove that they were of a proper age. The surgeons, it appeared, were empowered under the Act, to charge sixpence for each certificate they gave. A practice had obtained of requiring the children to produce certificates every time they changed their employers. This he conceived to be a very injurious practice, and, generally speaking, it was so considered—for his
 895
 Mr. Hume  did not understand the petition to be brought forward in the nature of an appeal at all, but for the purpose of showing the absolute necessity for a change in the law, which, as it now stood, obliged a party to incur an expense of near 400 l. l. s.
 Mr. Hume  advised his hon. Friend, after what had been stated by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, not to press his Motion. For the last fifteen years he had heard, year after year, promises of justice being done to India, and he hoped they would now be speedily fulfilled. He believed those connected with India expected too much, and those connected with the West-Indies feared too much. We had by our policy been ruining the commerce of India, and he feared that unless a more liberal course were promptly adopted, we should be unable to maintain that empire and the necessary establishments there. He hoped the Session would not pass without the subject being fully brought under the consideration of the House that all parties might know what
 967
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  presented a Petition from several hundred inhabitants of Cork, praying that no further grant of public money might be allowed for Maynooth College. The petitioners complained that the interference of the Roman Catholic Clergy had done away with all freedom of election; and that the Roman Catholics of Ireland were well able to support that establishment, as they paid in voluntary contributions to one man more than would support the College twice over. The clergymen educated at Maynooth by the public bounty were not at all the most efficient promoters of peace and good will among the Irish people, for it was a notorious fact, of which every day's experience furnished lamentable illustration, that they turned their chapels into political arenas, and used their pulpits as rostra from which to spout the most inflammatory doctrines to their misguided and credulous flocks—in fact, English gentlemen could form no adequate conception of the extent to which the priests carried the agitation disturbance. Everything English and Protestant was the subject of unceasing, and unmitigated attacks by the present race of priests educated at Maynooth. At every election they were the busiest agents, and the greatest promoters of disturbance.
 Mr. Pease  said, that the introduction of a new system, after the alteration consequent upon the Emancipation Bill, would involve the trade in great confusion and uncertainty. Sugar was the only article the West-Indian could send to this country in return for our manufactures. Although he was not opposed to a gradual equalization of the duties, he had some
 970
 Mr. Patrick Stewart  felt convinced from what he knew of the feelings of tin West-Indian body, that no objection would be entertained on their part to the general support which had been expressed in favour of the principle of equalizing the sugar duties. The objection urged by them last year to the proposition was an objection in point of time; and the same objection existed to a certain degree at the present moment. It could not fairly be said that the labour in the West Indies was free. The negroes were in a state of apprenticeship; and during the term of their apprenticeship, the owners were compelled to provide them with clothes and other necessaries. A similar burthen was not endured by the East-India interest, and he, therefore, thought that the West-India proprietors ought to be allowed to emerge from the state in which they were placed by the Slave Emancipation Act before a total equalization of the sugar duties took place. He took it for granted that when the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer talked about reducing the duties on East-India sugar and coffee, he meant the reduction to apply only to sugar and coffee which were  bona fide
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  presented a Petition from the East-India Company for a reduction of the duties on sugar and other articles, the produce and manufacture of British possessions in India. The right hon. Gentleman supported the prayer of the petition. Our possessions in India stood upon a footing distinct from that of any colony at any time possessed by England. That immense empire had been acquired without the charge of a single shilling to the State. India had paid the expenses of those very armies which had been employed in its subjugation. The claims of India were well entitled to the favourable consideration of Parliament. She had been under the necessity of remitting to this country—for the purpose of paying political and other charges, for which she had no return—a sum amounting, annually, to 2,400,000 l. 961 l. s. s. d. d. l. l. l. l. l. l. 962
 Mr. Estcourt  felt obliged to say, that he could not think that the case had been fairly stated. It was impossible that the reverend gentleman would have run the risk of expending upwards of 200 l., l. s.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton : That was precisely what he contended for; that legislation was not left to the Colonies as regarded the rights of the negroes, that the Colonial Assemblies could only legislate in minor matters, and even then that their Acts could not be carried into effect till they had received the assent of the King in Council. The Order in Council approving the Act for the Abolition of Slavery, arrived in the Colonies early in May, 1834, when the planters were told that they had an indefeasible right to the grant of 20,000,000 l. 932 No! No! George Grey 933 l. l. Stanley 934 * See Hansard, (third series) vol. xvii. p. 1202. 935 St. Christopher Advertiser 936
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  rose pursuant to notice, to move "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire whether the conditions on which the 20,000,000 l. l. 919 l. in limine, 920 l. 921 922 923 per saltum, 924 925 d. 
 
 HOGSHEADS OF SUGAR POTTED. 
 1833. 1834. 1835. 
 January 5 January 10 January 10 
 February 10 February 9 February 14 
 Hhds. 15 Hhda. 19 Hhds. 24 926 
 
 OF RUM. 
 None was made in January in any of these years. 
 1833. 1834. 1835. 
 February-0 February-95 galls. February-128 galls. 
 
 NUMBER OF PERSONS EMPLOYED. 
 1833. 1834. 1835. 
 Grown person Children 103 Grown person Children 99 Grown person Children 83 
 under twelve 51 under twelve 52 under twelve 2 
 154 151 85 d. 927 s. s. 928 929 l. l. 930 Stanley: Stanley:
 Mr. Buxton  acknowledged, on looking
 937 l. s. d. 938 l.
 Mr. Buxton : All he could say on the point was, he had received the fact as he had stated it; and it was because there was some doubt on the subject, that he called for the appointment of a Committee, to see how far the intentions of the Act of 1833 were answered, and its provisions enforced. The 49th Clause of the Act provided for the punishment of insolence on the part of the negro. This was unquestionably a very indefinite offence, and when the clause in question was under the consideration of the House, it had been asked whether looking a man in the face might not be construed into an act of insolence? For this very vague offence, however, no less than thirty-nine lashes were ordered to be inflicted on the negro. He was certainly of opinion, that if they punished the insolence of the negro, they ought to visit the offence, when committed by the planter, with equal severity. Lord Sligo was of a similar opinion as to the justice of restraining the overbearing conduct of the planters and overseers; for he said, in his despatch of the 13th August, that the negroes were quiet, well-tempered, and tranquil; but at the same time dwelt upon the violence of the overseers, as being calculated to excite them to rebellion. By what measures, then, were the cruelty and injustice of the planters, which ought to be so carefully watched and guarded against, checked and punished? By the 49th Clause of the Act, they got off with the slight punishment of a fine of 5 l. l. s. d.
 Mr. Powell Buxton  said, that if the hon. Baronet would refer to the 16th section of the Act, he would find that after reciting the various regulations necessary for giving effect to the Act, it provided that "nothing therein contained should be construed to extend to prevent the enactment by the respective governors, councils, and assemblies, of laws and ordinances necessary for that purpose."
 Mr. Fowell Buxton,  in reply, said, he felt that the speech of the hon. Baronet (Sir. G. Grey) must have made a deep impression on the House; and, accompanied as it was by numerous suggestions from the friends of emancipation, he felt that he had no alternative. He felt that it was indispensable on his part, wishing to do the best for those of whom he was the humble advocate, to withdraw his Motion. The Government had now taken upon itself a greater responsibility than it had hither to done in carrying the measure of emancipation into effectual operation; and he had no doubt they would do all that was possible to effect that object. It never was his intention to withhold the twenty millions, but that its payment should be accompanied with the intimation that Government was pledged that the intention of the Legislature should be carried into effect.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  would leave his Motion entirely in the hands of the noble Lord, trusting that he would furnish as much information as he conveniently could.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe,  in moving according to the notice which he had given, for the production of papers relating to the Convention that had been entered into respecting the prisoners taken by either of the belligerent armies in the north of Spain, could not help observing that there was no similar instance in our Parliamentary history where foreign politics and the relations of foreign powers with this country had been so much disregarded—he might almost say totally neglected—as they had been during the present Session: therefore it was, that he was particularly anxious to call the attention of the House to the subject. He was satisfied that it would have a mischievous effect on the internal affairs of Spain, if the lips of Members of that House remained longer closed on the subject of the Convention. He lamented that he did not see in his place the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, and he regretted it the more particularly, for if there was one branch of foreign policy more than another in which the noble Lord had evinced a lively interest in the establishment of freedom abroad, it was in the conduct and opinions he had manifested with regard to the Peninsula, to the distracted state of which he (Mr. Duncombe) wished to call the attention of the House. When Lord Eliot and Colonel Gurwood were sent to Spain, he put a question to the noble Lord, then Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs, to ascertain whether the object of the mission was to promote or oppose Don Carlos in endeavouring to obtain the Crown of Spain? This question was asked in consequence of an observation made by the Duke of Wellington in a speech he delivered in August last year. On the occasion he alluded to, Lord Melbourne was asked respecting Colonel Caradoc being sent into the Peninsula, when that noble Lord answered, that the gallant Officer had been sent there, that the British Government might be more quickly as well as more accurately informed as to the state of affairs in that quarter. The Duke of Wellington then observed with respect to the mission of Colonel Caradoc, that it was not usual to send persons to the head-quarters of an army unless as a sort of ally, and with the intention of giving countenance to the cause. His object, then, was to
 906 907 908 909
 Mr. Ewart  said, he had understood that if there had not been an absolute pledge given, at least there had been an understanding countenanced by the late Government, that the discriminating duties should be repealed this Session.
 Mr. Ewart  resumed. He said that justice to India required that these duties should be altered. We were bound by the India Bill to improve, as far as was in our power, the condition of that empire. But how could British capital get into India if we did not open our market for the produce of that country? When the West-India Bill was under discussion, his hon. Friend, the Member for the Tower Hamlets, and other hon. Members, de-
 966
 Mr. Gillon  looked upon the petition as calling the attention of the House to a scandalous oppression which, it appeared to him, had been practised in this case. The clergyman claimed tithes upon turnips grown in a field upon which the sheep fed, of whose fleeces he was afterwards to receive the tithe. A case of more gross rapacity was never witnessed. The legal profession had been accused of rapacity, but so great was the impression of the hardship inflicted in this case, that the counsel and solicitor acted gratuitously, and the rapacity was all transferred to the clergyman. He trusted that the House would soon pass a law for the commutation of tithes.
 Sir George Grey  commenced by observing, that the speech of the hon. Member had not only differed from the Motion of the hon. Member, but that the Motion which he had submitted to the House departed considerably from that of which he had given notice. Reassured the hon. Member however, that he was satisfied his conduct was dictated by none but the purest and most honourable motives. The character of the hon. Member stood far too high for humanity, and love of freedom and justice, to leave his motives, on that occasion, open for a single moment to any imputation of a derogatory character; and, therefore, he felt it his duty, in opposing even the amended Motion of the hon. Member, to award him the credit to which he was entitled, by declaring that he felt a perfect conviction that the spirit in which the hon. Member submitted his proposition to the House was that of a man deeply imbued with the feelings of honour, justice, and real humanity. The Motion of his hon. Friend he took in point of fact, to mean that the payment of 20,000,000 l. 939 l. 940 Buxton 941 942
 Sir George Grey  said, that the clause to which the hon. Member alluded merely referred to Local Acts, and provided that if, in the course of that species of legislation, any thing should be found to contravene the Imperial Act, an Order in Council might prevent
 Sir G. Grey  was perfectly aware of the provisions of the clause to which the hon. Member opposite had called his attention, and only regretted that the hon. Member had not read the remainder of the Clause, for the House would then have seen that it was nevertheless provided that any
 943 944 945 946 947 948 949 950 951
 Captain Pechell,  in reply, delared that he threw back all the insinuations levelled against himself and the petitioner, and though the hon. Member for Durham begged to enter his protest as usual, he (Captain Pechell) should also enter his against any interference that there was any thing contained in the petition which he was not prepared to prove. The case, unfortunately, was not a novel one; there had been petitions last year presented by the hon. Member for Hampshire, expressing the alarm felt by the occupiers of the parishes in the neighbourhood of the reverend Mr. Kemp, at the decree obtained by that reverend gentleman in the Court of Exchequer; and as due notice had been given to him as well as to the late Chief Baron that the petition now in his (Captain Pechell's) hand would be presented this day, there was no cause, at any rate, for saying an opportunity had
 904
 Captain Pechell  rose pursuant to notice to present a Petition from Samuel G. Pechell, Esq., a Captain in the Royal Navy, and farming his own land in the county of Hants, complaining of the vexatious proceeding of his vicar, the Rev. Thomas Cook Kemp and praying for a speedy Commutation of Tithes. The hon. Member begged to state that in the remarks he might feel it to be his duty to make, he did not intend to convey any censure on the clergy generally, but lo show the necessity of altering the present law of Tithes. He then went on to say that he should request the indulgence and favour of the House while he recapitulated some necessary details. As it could not be supposed that he should be very familiar with this subject, he trusted the kindness of the House would be extended to him. It appeared that in 1826, the Rev. Thomas Kemp entered on his vicarage, and immediately gave notice that all compositions for Tithes should cease, the petitioner's composition at the time being 19 s. s. d. l. s. l. s. d. 899 900 l. 901 l. s. s. 
 
 Plaintiff's costs were reduced on taxation from 250 l. 166 2 5 
 Paid a Commissioner 38 10 0 
 Tithe of turnips claimed 3 6 0 
 Plaintiff's (the Vicar's) demand 207 18 5 
 Petitioner's (the defendant's) Solicitor's bill 110 10 6 
 Total paid £318 8 11 s. s. l.
 Mr. Mark Philips  conceived that the value of West-India property had been increased rather than depreciated by the Slave Emancipation Act. He pressed on the Government the importance of taking into consideration the equalization of the sugar duties at the earliest possible period.
 Mr. Elphinstone  hoped that the duties would be equalized. If that were the case the consumption of sugar would be increased. Since 1790, the consumption of tea had increased considerably, and the consumption of coffee had increased twenty-fold, and there was no reason, but the high duties, why the consumption of sugar had not increased equally to that of tea and coffee.
 The Attorney-General  said, that it seemed to him a very proper petition to bring before the House, in order to show the state of the law of the land as it at present stood, and in order to induce the Legislature to alter it. He must protest, however, against that House being in any manner considered as a court of appeal from any of the courts in Westminster Hall. Though he differed from the opinions of the noble Lord who decided the case, still he was eminent for his learning and impartiality, and he had no doubt but the decree was made in strict con-
 902
 Sir Robert Inglis  thought it highly unfair to use a single case as the means of an attack on the clergy in general. Because a single instance of grievance was alleged, was that a fair ground for affixing a general stigma on the whole Church? Besides, it should be recollected that one-third of the tithes in England belonged to laymen, and if oppression was suffered in consequence of tithes, the whole offence was not chargeable to the Church. What was a clergyman to do if this tithe were not paid, but appeal to the law for redress?
 Mr. Clay  merely rose to ask whether his hon. Friend, the Member for Weymouth, after the very able, eloquent, and
 959
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  protested against these attacks on the clergy in general as most unjust and undeserved. It was the duty of the Government to release the clergy from these annoyances, by securing to them a fair provision.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  rose to move for copies of any information in the possession of his Majesty's Government relative to the recent disturbances among the labouring poor in Ampthill, Bedfordshire; Chesham, Bucks; and Eastbourne, Sussex. He said it could not but be matter of regret that in attempting to carry into effect the provisions of the new Poor-law, some disturbances had broken out. Though he deprecated them, he could not be altogether surprised at them. There were some points in that measure which he thought extremely objectionable—there were some points in it which amounted to neither more nor less than saying that the poor were strangers to the feelings of their more fortunate fellow, creatures—that their nature was not so sensitive as was the nature of the higher classes. When he saw the social compact violated, as it was by this law, he could not be surprised at what had taken place; and he feared that, before they had passed through the winter, other cases of a similar kind to those he was now bringing under the consideration of the House would occur. In so saying, he spoke not his individual opinion only, but the opinion of many experienced persons, among whom were some of the magistrates of the county in which he resided. He thought that the information for which he was about to move, could not fail to show the temper of the people towards the law in question. The hon. Gentleman concluded by moving—"That there be laid before the House copies of any information his Majesty's Government may have received relative to the recent disturbances among the labouring poor in the parish of Ampthill, in the county of Bedford; Chesham, Bucks; and Eastbourne, Sussex."
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  said, that understanding from the noble Lord that the Report of the Poor-law Commissioners would be shortly laid upon the Table of the House, he would not press his Motion. He sincerely trusted that the Report would have the effect of removing the anxiety which was at present felt by many persons as to the consequences of efforts to carry the Poor-laws into full effect. Under the present circumstances he begged leave to withdraw his Motion.
 Viscount Mahon  concurred with the noble Lord in regretting the absence of the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Foreign Department, because, though that noble Lord was, of course, bound to obey the summons of his Majesty, yet it would have been much more satisfactory to have heard from the noble Lord himself, who, from the office he held, must be much more conversant with them, a statement of some of the details connected with this subject. He only expressed his personal feelings when he declared his regret that the noble Lord opposite thought it his duty to refuse the papers for which the hon. Member for Finsbury moved; but the noble Lord having said, that not to refuse the papers would be to establish a bad precedent, and to take a course which would be inconvenient to the public service, he considered himself bound to yield his assent to the noble Lord's objection. He begged to inform the House, however, that he was authorized by the Duke of Wellington to state that, as far as his, the noble Duke's, feelings and wishes were concerned, he was not only willing, but desirous that his instructions to Lord Eliot, his dispatches to Lord Eliot, and also that the previous correspondence from Madrid—indeed, that everything which could bear on the present Question should be produced. He was, at the same time, authorized by the Duke of Wellington to state, that he did not in the least wish to press on his Majesty's Government to produce papers that they thought ought, under the circumstances, to be withheld; but the noble Duke was persuaded that the more closely this question was examined in all its bearings, the more it would be seen how completely unfounded were the attacks which had been made on his Administration. He confessed he had witnessed, with great surprise, the attacks on the Duke of Wellington in connexion with this subject; and he alluded not merely to those of this evening, but also to others out of this House. If ever there was a transaction which he should have thought was beyond
 912 913 914
 Lord Sandon  thought it was rather hard upon individuals who had no oppor-
 903 s. l.
 Lord Sandon  was inclined to agree with the hon. Member for Middlesex, who said that different parties, connected with each interest, hoped or feared too much from the equalization of these duties; for a very long time must elapse before the reduction of the duties on East-India produce could produce such a change in the general prosperity of the country as to be important in a commercial point of view. Whatever change might be made, it was most desirable that both the West and East-India proprietors should know, beforehand, what they would have to expect from the Government, and a gradual approximation to an equalization would be preferable to any more sudden adjustment. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would take the expediency of this principle into his consideration, in any plan he might propose.
 Mr. O' Connell  was never more unwilling to trespass on the time of the House than on this occasion, but his duty required him to take some part in this discussion. The hon. Baronet had made the grossest charge—with avowed pain, indeed—but this was poor consolation to those upon whom the injury was inflicted: the language of persecutors was always compassionate. The familiar of the Spanish Inquisition who had burnt the first Protestant, had, no doubt, talked of the suffering he himself endured to inflict suffering: when Calvin roasted Servetus,
 994 995 privata lex, 996 997
 Sir Mathew White Ridley  rose to second the Motion, and expressed his surprise that several hon. Members should take the liberty of indulging in a sneer whenever the word freeman was mentioned. He could not tell what satisfactory reason might be adduced why this class of men should of all others be subjected to insult when their interests were brought under Parliamentary discussion. He was aware of instances of freemen having been censured at the Bar of that House, but he
 1005
 Lord Stanley  agreed with the hon. Member for Middlesex, that in bringing forward a proposition of such a nature as that submitted by the hon. Member for Yarmouth, a course was adopted which was most unfavourable to the proper discussion of the Bill. If the first part of the proposition of the hon. Member were assented to, the qualifying words with which it concluded should be abandoned. He thought that the proposition might be fairly discussed, as one of the details which he was most anxious calmly to consider, and to adjust in such a way as to render the Bill most efficacious for the good government of Municipal Corporations. In the proposition of the hon. Member for Yarmouth, two questions, totally separate and distinct, were mixed up, namely, the rights which might appertain to freemen under the proposed Bill, and those rights which were secured to them under the
 1014
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that nine-tenths of the property, particularly in Ireland, were granted by the Crown, and yet that House did not hesitate to legislate respecting it. It was only when the personal rights of the Crown were interfered with, that they should feel any hesitation in deciding on the subject?
 An Hon. Member : The Crown had lately exercised the right of appointing a Recorder in Lymington, though such a right had not for a long time previously been enforced.
 Mr. Blackburne  believed, that under the existing system, the Crown, had in one instance in North Wales, the power of nominating a Mayor, and in one or two instances the same power was exercised with regard to the appointment of town-clerks. In the proposed Bill, the right of the Crown, as to the nomination of Recorders, was retained.
 Mr. Bonham Carter  supported the Clause. It, in fact, related only to a name, and he thought that the discussion had better be postponed until the substance came before the Committee. Aldermen, where they existed were not necessarily included in the style and title of the corporation. Such was even the case of the city which the hon. Member represented.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, the suggestion of the hon. Member for Oxford was entitled to attention, and that there must be many similar cases.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that the hon. and learned Member for Bridport had not been so steady a friend of the Reform Act as to render his testimony respecting its principles of any value whatsoever. He would not follow the hon. and learned Gentleman into the extraneous topics into which he had entered. The House was not in Committee to bandy sneers at Ministers, or at the Opposition, but to consider how they could best make this Bill perfect. Between the Reform Bill and the present Bill there was this difference. It behoved the House to use stricter vigilance with regard to the boundaries under the Reform Act, as they related to the elective franchise, than it used with respect to the municipal boundaries, in which municipal privileges only were involved. He did not in the slightest degree trench upon the importance of the municipal towns, but he maintained that the mode in which their corporate Representatives were elected did not trench upon the same constitutional ground as the mode in which Representatives in Parliament should be chosen. Since the passing of the Reform Act great facilities had been given towards the fixing of the limits of every municipal borough in the kingdom. It was proposed to appoint Commissioners for that purpose; and he for one saw no difficulty in the introduction of a Clause into the Bill, declaring that all the boundaries proposed to be established by the Commissioners should be submitted to Parliament. in the next Session of Parliament. The object of the Bill was to protect the public from abuse; but if they were to be driven to the Parliamentary boundary, which was so extended and so inconvenient, or to the old municipal boundary, which was so confined and inexplicable, hon. Gentlemen must know that the first effect of the measure would be to make
 1031
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he should follow the example of his right hon. Friend who spoke last, and introduce nothing of a personal nature into this discussion. He could not agree with the noble Lord (John Russell), that this was merely a question of convenience. It involved a principle—and a principle, too, of the highest importance. The Bill, as it now stood, gave to the Municipal Council a power of taxation, and then it gave to the Crown the power of saying upon what persons that tax was to fall. This was nothing more nor less than giving Government the power of saying what district should be taxed. He must protest against a course so utterly unconstitutional. They were told by his right hon.
 1032 1033
 Mr. O'Connell  congratulated the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, upon his great constitutional anxiety. The right hon. Gentleman was exceedingly anxious that the people should not be taxed without being represented. The present Bill, said the right hon. Gentleman, extends taxation. If it extended taxation, it extended representation also. If the people were to be taxed, by whom were they to be taxed?—by their Representatives. So that after all, the Bill extended the constitutional principle which the right hon. Gentleman was so anxious not to have abridged. The people could not be taxed except by their Representatives, and being taxed, what were they taxed for?—for remote objects—for objects foreign to their interest—for objects abroad? No: for their own local purposes—for their own local benefit and advantage. He (Mr. O'Connell) submitted to the right hon. Gentleman, that his constitutional anxiety might be fully satisfied with that. The House, by the Amendment of the noble Lord (the Member for Arundel) had got rid of the delay which would have arisen from the adoption of the proposition of the right hon. Baronet (the Member for Tamworth); but were there not other difficulties to contend against? The noble Lord (the Member for Arundel) said, he had full confidence in the present Ministry; if that were the case, he implored the noble Lord to show it. Ministers could have no sinister motive in the provision which they proposed to carry. The noble Lord by persisting in his Motion would only be exciting a want of confidence in them that would be warranted only by their doing wrong. The Bill was entitled "A Bill for the Reform of Corporate Abuses." The effect of the noble Lord's Amendment would be to confine the operation of the Bill to the old municipal limits of every borough. How would that operate? The Reform would extend to No. 16 in a street, but would not reach No. 17; it would include one side of a street—it would leave the other untouched. Could anything be more absurd? The noble Lord, he believed, was not a bit-by-bit Reformer; yet the proposition he then made was of the worst species of bit-by-
 1034
 Sir George Clerk  said, that as the hon. Member seemed very apprehensive that if the Amendment were carried, the Bill would be ruined, he hoped the House would allow him to refer to the Scotch Municipal Corporation Reform Bill, which was framed upon the principle of the noble Lord, the Member for Arundel (Lord Dudley Stuart) and was nevertheless approved of by all parties. Some objection arose from many of the towns having greatly increased in size, and that there were parishes and towns beyond the bounds of the Municipal Corporations. But the hon. Member thought that the parishes at present beyond the boundaries would be very anxious to be included in the limits. He said, "to be sure, they are taxed, but by their own Representatives." He believed that if the choice were given them, to be taxed by their Representatives, or remain unrepresented, without taxation, they would be inclined to choose the latter. In regard to some of the large towns it was generally supposed that Commissioners were to be sent to inquire into the practicability of an extension of bounds. He believed no measure would meet with greater opposition. Either Government had the materials of information before them, or they had not: if they had, why were they not prepared? [Lord  John Russell: 1035 John Russell:
 Lord Stanley  said, that he had given notice of his intention to move an amendment in that place, not for the purpose of opposing the proposition made by his Majesty's Government, but with the view of effecting the object they professed their anxiety to attain. He did not quarrel with the proposition made by his noble Friend that three years' continuous occupancy should be one of the tests which should entitle a man to the municipal franchise; it was only with the view of more strongly ensuring that three years' continuous occupancy, that he now rose to propose an amendment to what he almost hoped his noble Friend would not object. The insertion of the words "of the whole of," had certainly removed some ambiguity which he felt persuaded the Clause, in its original shape, contained; but a continuous occupancy for three years was not yet provided for. It was quite clear, that by the Bill, even as it was now altered, a person occupying, during the whole of 1833, the whole of 1834, and up to the end of August, 1835—a period of very little more than two years and a half—would be entitled to the elective franchise. The words he proposed
 1037 bonâ fide
 Mr. Bonham Carter  understood the wish and intention of his noble Friend to be, to confer the right of voting on any person possessing rateable property within the borough. Without confining himself at the present moment to the precise words of any definite amendment, he would take the opportunity of suggesting that including all persons who should occupy any lands, tenements, or hereditaments within the borough, of such a nature as would be rated to the poor, would have the desired effect.
 Lord Stanley  repeated, that his only desire was to do that which he understood to be the object of the Government, and to fix a period of three years' residence as the  minimum. 1041
 Lord Stanley , that being the case, would not give the House the trouble to divide.
 Lord Stanley  said, he was unwilling to give the House the trouble of dividing if it were considered unnecessary to do so. He should, therefore, like to know what the noble Lord's intentions were before he came to a determination how he should dispose of his Amendment. He should like to be informed whether it was the determination of the noble Lord to resist any further diminution of the term.
 Mr. Pryme  wished to be informed whether a joint occupier would be in the meaning of the Act an inhabitant householder. [ Lord John Russell was understood to answer "Yes."
 Mr. Goulburn  thought the seven miles should be measured from the extreme boundaries of the Parliamentary borough. In the Reform Bill they were taken from some place within the borough.
 Mr. Pryme  objected, that in some boroughs there was no market held, and then where would his hon. Friend find a market-place?
 Mr. Scarlett  said, that nothing could appear more evident to him than the necessity of making the payment apply to both.
 Mr. Scarlett  consented to withdraw his Amendment, reserving to himself the right of pressing it at a future stage of the proceedings.
 Mr. Scarlett , in offering a suggestion with respect to the proposed Clause, said he should do so in a spirit to improve the institutions of the country, and in furtherance of the wishes of his constituents. He should, then, throw out of his consideration all the reports which had been circulated relative to the motives of those who had brought forward the measure; he would not consider it as a party measure, but as one which had originated from a sincere desire on the part of his Majesty's Government to place corporate bodies on a proper footing; but he should be directed in his opinion, and the course which he should pursue, by the manner in which Amendments proposed at his side of the House were received. He considered it most injudicious to hurry on a Bill of that nature, which stood in place of one hundred measures which might be introduced on the disposal of the rights, privileges, and charities which it embraced. When, therefore, all existing charters were proposed to be swept away by the first clause, he thought he did not say too much when he expressed it as his conviction that a measure of so much importance should not be suffered to pass through Committee without receiving all the attention which its importance demanded. He must own that he considered it rather a dangerous experiment to carry the measure into effect as it was originally proposed; but he could not suppose it to be the serious intention of his Majesty's Government to pass it into a law without making many considerable alterations. He regarded the Bill as a measure submitted for discussion, and open to very great alteration. It was because he took this view of it, that he consented to destroy all existing charters, as proposed by the clause then under consideration. It might be thought that, as one of the Members for Norwich, he had some personal interest in the maintenance of abuses, such a supposition was altogether without foundation. All those stories which had been circulated regarding
 1017
 Mr. Scarlett  proposed an Amendment on the Clause. It was to the effect that the Corporations should be styled the Mayor, Aldermen, and Burgesses of—.He thought it would be a great injury to the community at large, as well as an act of gross injustice to the individuals, if the body of Aldermen were to be abolished. If the clause before the Committee was adopted the Aldermen would be degraded from the high station which they had hitherto enjoyed in society, as Mayors, or Magistrates of the city or borough in which they resided; and should the Town Council entertain any enmity to the class to which they belonged they would be made to suffer many annoyances in addition to that degradation. It would be extremely hard upon these gentlemen, all of whom were of a certain age, and almost all of whom were respectable, to be degraded from the condition in which they had "lived so loved so long," and be placed in that of overseers of the poor and surveyors of the parish roads. The reasons for retaining the Aldermen in the government of the cities and boroughs were very convincing. They represented a second estate as it were, and no measure could pass without their sanction. That the Aldermen were fully worthy to be made partakers in the civic administration he should only call in proof the Report of the Commission. In that Report there was not one word to charge them—those of the city which he had the honour to represent in particular—with improper administration of the Corporate Funds or any other egregious instance of bad government. It was true the report did not dwell at length on their merits, or expatiate largely on their virtues, but it gave them credit for discharging their duty. He should mention particularly the Corporation of Norwich and Liverpool. If the Aldermen were retained with equal privilege with the Town Council, it would make the measure more palatable to the people, cause it to work well, and reconcile all minds easily to the change.
 Lord Dudley Stuart  said, that the Amendment of the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) was the same in principle with his own, because upon the same principle upon which he objected to the power of determining the limits of the wards, he (Lord D. Stuart) objected to the determining limits of the boroughs. He was sorry to object to any part of a Bill which had had the rare fortune of meeting with the approbation of every shade of political parties; at the same time he was compelled to give the Clause his opposition, because he thought it most objectionable in principle, and fraught with danger and inconvenience, that the King in Council should have the power of determining the limits of the boroughs. The Attorney-General, in recommending the Clause, had said, that it had always been the proper privilege of the King. But he would ask the House if that power and privilege was continued with regard to the other boroughs in the Clause? and why, if the House were to decide upon the limits of the boroughs in Schedule A, why they should consider the other boroughs of so
 1023 1024
 Lord Dudley Stuart  observed, that all he wished to secure by his Amendment was, that the boundaries should be altered by an Act of Parliament, and not by an Order in Council. In that Amendment he thought the great body of the Committee would go with him.
 Lord Dudley Stuart  said, that his objections to the clause were founded on principle, and had not been removed by anything he had heard from the Noble Lord who had just sat down.
 Lord Dudley Stuart  replied, amidst cries of "Divide!" and "Withdraw!" He was understood to say, that when he saw who were the Gentlemen that now stood forward as the champions of the Crown;—when he beheld the noble Lord (the Secretary for the Home Department) the right hon. Baronet (the Member for Nottingham) the right hon. (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) and the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, stand up for the prerogative of the Crown—he could not refrain from expressing his astonishment. He thought it a blot upon this otherwise admirable Corporation Reform Bill to introduce into it so unconstitutional a principle as that which this clause contained. He could not assent to the proposition made to him by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin; on the contrary, he must persist in carrying his Amendment to a division.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the clause, as it now stood, required that a person pay all his rates within six months previous to the revision of the burgess roll, but as no certain day was fixed for the revision of the burgess roll, a person might by some accident lose his franchise; he therefore would propose that a person should be entitled to be a burgess on paying up all his rates, except those due within six months previous to the last day of August. The Amended Clause would place persons in this situation—that they must have occupied premises in the borough two years and ten months before the day of the revision of the burgess roll.
 Lord John Russell  concurred in the objection urged by the right hon. Baronet to the suggestion of his hon. Friend behind him (Mr. Bonham Carter). The introduction of the word "land" would be liable to the abuse adverted to by the right hon. Baronet, while the insertion of the word "tenement" would admit every place that was rated, even at the lowest possible amount, and thereby intrust the franchise to a class of persons who might not exercise it in the manner contemplated by the Bill. He saw no objection to the introduction of the words "office or wharf," but as there were several other descriptions of property to which the same argument might apply, such as mills, farm-houses, distilleries, or brewhouses, and as he was not desirous to exclude one description of property while he specified another, he would, with the permission of the Committee, take time to consider the form in which it would be desirable to word the Clause.
 Lord John Russell  said, he had heard no reasons why he should depart from the course which he had laid down for himself. He should therefore resist any diminution of the term as laid down in the Bill.
 Lord John Russell  said, that under the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for Lancashire the period of occupancy could never be less than three years, and might be four. The objection urged by the hon Member for the City of London (Mr. Grote) was provided against by another Clause of the Bill.
 Lord John Russell  begged to repeat, that whilst the Parliamentary boundary would be often too wide, the old municipal boundary would be often too small, and would not include half the town. He
 1027
 Lord John Russell : Some towns were omitted for peculiar reasons, which he should state before the discussion on the Bill closed; but the general objection to the insertion of the towns alluded to by the right hon. Baronet, was the smallness of the population.
 Lord John Russell  thought the course proposed by the Bill was more convenient than that recommended by the right hon. Baronet. What the right hon. Baronet proposed was, that while the boundaries of particular boroughs remained as they were, the boundaries of other boroughs should be altered and settled by Act of Parliament. The case of the Reform Bill was not analogous to the present measure.
 1022
 Lord John Russell  said, the borough of Plymouth included a large district, and it was necessary first to ascertain whether the bounds of the borough should be those of the Municipal Corporations.
 Lord John Russell  wished the right hon. Baronet had stated that some time sooner, because he himself had put it to the right hon. Baronet whether it would not be better to adjourn the debate, when the right hon. Baronet objected to an adjournment, saying it would be better not to leave this Clause half discussed. It certainly was an important Clause, and the proposition now before the House respecting it was of considerable importance. For his own part, he thought it would be better that no obstruction should be thrown in the way of passing the Clause at present, and that the right hon. Baronet should have some other opportunity of discussing his proposition, the Committee agreeing that any qualification it might be deemed advisable to adopt should be introduced hereafter.
 Lord John Russell  had not the least wish to hurry this measure through the Committee, and that if any hon. Member would move that the Chairman should report progress, he should not object to that course.
 Lord John Russell  had said before, that he had rather not discuss this question now, because it was under the consideration of the Registration Committee, and till they had made their Report he would not propose any definite plan.
 Lord John Russell  objected to that proposition, if it was intended to make the Borough-rate payable as well as the Poor-rate before the title to qualification could be made good; but if the right hon. Gentleman meant that in cases where there was no Poor-rate the payment of the Borough-rate should be held as a proof of qualification, the proposition assumed a different aspect. He should certainly object to the other proposition, as it would produce great inequality, because in some boroughs no Borough-rate at all was made.
 Lord John Russell  intended they should be measured from any part of the borough.
 Lord John Russell  said, that that was a point which had been much discussed by the Committee on the Registration Bill, and he should therefore prefer reserving his opinion till that Committee had made their Report.
 Lord John Russell  said, that if the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member was adopted, any person, whether he remained in the borough or not—a lodger or servant who chose to be rated—might claim the right of voting. He was satisfied the Clause went far enough.
 Lord John Russell  spoke in a very low tone of voice, and observed that the provisions of the Corporation Bill were not inconsistent with the rights which freemen enjoyed in voting for Members of Parliament.
 Lord John Russell : I beg to explain. I never said that it was my intention to repeal any part of the Reform Bill, and yet the noble Lord stated that I avowed that such was my object, and that "I threw off the mask." I merely stated my opinion as to the preservation of the rights of freemen, but I utterly deny that that statement bears the construction which has been put on it by the noble Lord opposite.
 Lord John Russell  said, that he considered it right to observe, that it was his intention, when alterations were effected, to refer them to a Committee, for the purpose of embodying them in precise terms. This course, which he intended to follow, was pursued in the cases of the Reform-Bill, and the Poor-Law Amendment Bill.
 Lord John Russell  replied, at the end of the Bill.
 Lord John Russell  said, he did not exactly know how to take the hon. Gentleman's Motion. He should suppose from the commencement that the hon. Member intended to maintain all rights of freemen absolute and inchoate; but when
 1006 1007 1008 
 
 Year. Freemen. Year. Freemen. Year. Freemen. Year. Freemen. 
 1800 1,775 1808 1,256 1816 2,582 1824 2,237 
 1801 2,051 1809 1,270 1817 1,715 1825 2,655 
 * 5,782 1810 1,606 * 8,889 * 10,797 
 1803 1,397 1811 1,441 1819 1,430 1827 1,337 
 1804 1,245 * 5,918 * 4,605 1828 1,404 
 1805 1,473 1813 3,285 1821 1,468 1829 1,433 
 * 4,700 1814 1,357 1822 1,430 * 9,321 
 * 3,114 1815 1,480 1823 2,080 * 2,569 1009
 Lord John Russell  said, he thought that that was a question that would be best discussed in Committee. He did not understand the question of the hon. Gentleman to have been put in the way in which the right hon. Baronet put it. He understood it to be with reference to a case where property had been bequeathed to certain charitable purposes, and where the members of a corporation were made trustees, merely in order the better to secure its appropriation, there the trusts would be preserved; but with respect to property
 1000
 Lord John Russell  moved the Order of the Day for the House resolving itself into a Committee upon the Municipal Corporations Bill.
 Lord John Russell  moved, that the debate on this Petition be adjourned.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, it was very wrong in the noble Lord to attempt to cast ridicule upon the freemen, who, although they might not be the possessors of confiscated Church-property, or proprietors of stalls in Covent-garden, were yet perhaps as independent, and as respectable as the noble Lord himself. The noble Lord talked indeed of Ipswich—was there nothing given, nothing promised, to anybody at Stroud or Tiverton? Oh, of course not! For in boroughs Whiggery and purity were always sure to be found together. One part of this bill would upset one of the principles of the Reform Bill, and, perhaps, when this measure should have passed into a law, we should have a clause in some other bill upsetting some of its principles. Vast numbers of poor freemen possessed rights and privileges under Corporate Charters as they now stood. He could state that many in the Corporation of Lincoln held leases in virtue of their rights as freemen and on the faith of charters. Would the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, destroy those charters, and rights to property while he allowed those of Woburn Abbey to remain untouched? Why should not the 10 l.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  argued that if householders lived within seven miles of the borough they would have a right to vote. He believed the cases to which his hon. colleague had referred were but few in number, and that the argument of the
 1047
 Mr. Harvey  presented a petition from the burgesses and electors of Colchester, in favour of Corporate Reform. It might properly be said, the important question just asked would be best discussed in Committee, and the petition he now presented would be found to supply materials to aid in the consideration of it. The petitioners stated, that in the borough of Colchester there was corporate property which yielded 4,000 l. l.
 Mr. Maclean  alluded to the annual ceremony, to which considerable aversion was felt, of the Mayor and sixty citizens of Oxford, making oath publicly before the Vice-Chancellor, to respect his authority. If that custom would be perpetuated under the words of this Clause, which enacted that the new Corporation should "do and suffer all acts which now lawfully" the present Corporation "may do and suffer," his hon. Colleague and himself were instructed to object to it; but he hoped the hon. Members for the University would at once consent to the abolition of a custom which was so strongly objected to that it was with great difficulty complied with. With this notice of the matter he would leave it for the present.
 Mr. Baines  considered, that if it were made imperative that the parties should have to pay Borough-rates, the number of persons to whom the franchise was intended to be given would be very much reduced. It would be, in point of fact, making a new taxation to be levied on the poorest class of society, and ought to receive much more consideration than there had been time yet to bestow upon it.
 Mr. Divett  then moved that the words "during that year and the two preceding years" be omitted, for the purpose of inserting the words "for the space of twelve months preceding."
 Mr. Divett  submitted that the amendment of which he had given notice was one which ought to be put before that of the noble Lord the Member for Lancashire. He entreated the Committee to suppose a case in which considerable excitement and party spirit prevailed. In such a case a man might be called upon to prove his rating for three years, and to produce the necessary vouchers, which it would be almost impossible for him to do. The effect of the clause, in its present shape, would actually be to disfranchise a large number of persons; and with the view of preventing such a result, it was his intention to propose an amendment, to the effect that the proof of one year's rating should be considered sufficient.
 Mr. Shaw  was understood to express
 1015
 Mr. Grote  felt strongly disposed to support the Amendment announced by the hon. Member for Exeter. Under the bill in its present shape, a man who omitted his rating for a single quarter would be bound to begin his three years' qualification over again, however much of the time might have expired, and all his previous occupancy would count for nothing. As the making an occupancy of three years the test of qualification would have the effect of excluding a very important and unexceptionable class of persons, he certainly preferred the proposition of the hon. Member for Worcester which substituted two years instead of three.
 Mr. Robinson  expressed his opinion that a continuous occupancy for two years would be sufficient for every purpose that could be required.
 Mr. Robinson  thought, that a person who contributed to the payment of the Poor-rate, although he might not contribute to the payment of the Borough-rate, would have such an interest in the operation of the Bill as that he ought to have the franchise.
 Mr. Robinson  felt bound to declare it
 1010 O'Connell: l. 1011
 Mr. Aglionby  thought the noble Lord had not sufficiently adverted to the main feature of the proposition made by the hon. Member for Chester. In large towns, where there were several persons in one firm, it was usual for the senior partner to retire from the business, leaving his eldest son in his stead, but still having his name in the firm, and the rates being paid in his name. The son continued to reside in his father's house as part of his family, till he married and formed a separate establishment, yet this highly respectable class of persons would be disfranchised by the Clause as it now stood. This was a state
 1045
 Mr. Aglionby  would oppose the Clause as it now stood, because he thought three years and seven months a great deal too long a period for a man to be deprived of his vote.
 Mr. Warburton  supported the Motion of the hon. Member for Exeter (Mr. Divett) and objected to that of the noble Lord, the Member for Lancashire, on the
 1040
 Mr. Warburton  said, that if these words were taken out of the Bill, and the right of voting should be extended to those who were resident within a certain distance, the objection which the right hon. Member for Tamworth had made as to surrounding occupiers struck him as being a very forcible one. If this alteration was adopted, a wharf, for instance, might have an unlimited number of joint occupiers, and a borough would be swamped with the greatest ease. He thought, therefore, that the right to vote should only be extended to householders.
 Mr. Warburton  remarked, that this was a point on which contrary decisions had been given by the revising Barristers. In some instances it was decided that the seven miles should be the distance as the crow flies, while others had determined that the distance should be measured by the nearest way of access. He hoped, therefore, the Legislature would not leave this point unsettled.
 Mr. Warburton  said, the distance might be measured from the market-place of the borough.
 Mr. Warburton  was sure that the effect would be to limit the franchise.
 Mr. H. Twiss  said, that the object of Ministers was evidently to preserve in their own hands a power which was extremely unconstitutional. He had always understood that this Bill of Municipal Reform was to carry out the principle of the Reform Bill, and yet two Questions had come on that night, and in both had Ministers departed from the analogy of their Reform Bill. The reasons which induced him to oppose this Clause were not the same reasons with those which had been stated by the noble Member for Arundel. One of the reasons stated by that noble Lord was this—that though he did not consider the present Ministers likely to endanger the liberties of the subjects, there might be other Ministers who would do so. Now every thing was possible. But he considered that the possibility to which the noble Lord had
 1030
 The Speaker  observed, that the hon. Member for Yarmouth submitted the proposed alteration to the House as a Resolution, and not as an instruction to the Committee.
 Mr. Praed  felt no hesitation, after what had fallen from the noble Lord (Stanley) in withdrawing his Resolution.
 Mr. Praed  rose to call attention to a subject of great importance in reference to the Bill before the House. He admitted the general inconvenience of the practice of bringing forward a matter for consideration on the present Motion, which might be discussed in the Committee on the Bill but, at the same time, he thought that, in this particular instance, it was desirable to separate a portion of the details of the Bill, and take the opinion of the House upon it before going into Committee. He was not about to invite the House to do any thing inconsistent with the principle of the Bill, or to do any thing likely to throw impediments in the way of establishing sound Municipal Government, and the local control of Corporate Funds, but to declare that, consistently with securing those objects, they would take from no individual, however poor, his property or his privileges. The Resolution he proposed to move he would now read to the House, and he assured them that he would not waste their time by many observations upon it. He should move, that "It is the opinion of this House, that all freemen of existing Corporations, and all those in the course of acquiring their freedom, and their descendants, ought to be maintained in the enjoyment of any rights, privileges, and property which they possess or might acquire by virtue of any charters now in force, in so far as the continuance of such
 1001 Laughter. 1002 l. l. l. 1003 l. 1004
 Mr. Hardy  proposed, with the view of guarding against the occurrence of the case suggested by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, that land, to confer a qualification, should be required to be rated to a certain amount—no matter to what amount—whether it was 2 s. d. s., bonâ fide
 Mr. Poulter  said, that unless the clause as framed was retained as part of the Bill, the door would be opened to very great injustice in many districts. Without this clause the councils of the boroughs might levy rates, in the nature of county-rates, upon districts with which eventually they might have no possible connexion, and thus impose a grievance, the extent of which could not be known. He would rather intrust the powers of fixing boundaries to the King in Council than that this Question should be postponed.
 Mr. Roebuck  was understood to say, that it was not the poor, but the rich, who would be injured by this Clause. Probably
 1046
 Mr. Brotherton  moved the adjournment of the House.
 Mr. Brotherton  said, that he had been urged by several hon. Members to move the adjournment, but had no objection to withdraw his Motion if that were the wish of the House.
 Mr. Brotherton  considered that the constituency would be much limited, if payment both to the Poor-rates and Borough-rates were to be required. Under that impression, he should oppose the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet.
 Mr. Hume  thought two years' residence quite sufficient. He hoped that there would be no occasion for difference upon this point, but that the noble Lord would consent to take a medium period of two years.
 Mr. Hume  wished to remind the House of the course of proceeding which they were sanctioning, by entertaining, at that stage of the Bill, the proposition of the hon. Member for Yarmouth, and which was (unless it were the intention of the hon. Member and his friends to give every opposition to the Bill) exceedingly inconvenient and unfair. He did not understand what had already passed in that House, if it were not meant to confine opposition to certain alterations and amendments, and if the Bill had not received the general approbation of both sides. If this were the intention, what, he asked, was the meaning of the course now proposed? Would it not be far better to go into committee, and there discuss each clause as it was submitted? When they came to the consideration of the ninth clause of the Bill, the question involved in the proposition of the hon. Member for Yarmouth might be very properly raised. No practical result could arise on now coming to a vote on the Motion of the hon. Member; but if he submitted it in Committee, the clause to which it referred would be either affirmed or rejected, and the progress of the measure thereby advanced. He thought that
 1012
 Mr. Pease  remarked, that many persons who resided within seven miles of a town, who had manufactories or warehouses in it, would be deprived of their votes if the Amendment were not agreed to.
 Mr. Pease  could see no reason why greater security should be taken from the people of England than from those of
 1043
 Mr. Hesketh Fleetwood  contended, that although the old borough qualification might be a good principle to lay down, still it would be better to improve that principle, and this he conceived would be effected by the Amendment of the hon. Member for Chester. The confining the electoral franchise to householders would disfranchise many persons of high respectability at Preston, who, though not resident householders, were rateable as proprietors of valuable premises there. He thought, therefore, that it was not fair towards such persons to exclude them from the franchise because they had not a house within the borough.
 Mr. Hesketh Fleetwood  supported the Amendment of the hon. Member for Chester, as he was aware that confining the franchise to residents would disfranchise many most respectable persons who, though not resident householders, still possessed extensive premises in towns, and paid considerable sums in the way of local taxation. This he knew to be particularly the case in Preston.
 Mr. Bernal  reminded hon. Members that there was no Amendment at present before the Committee.
 Mr. Sheil  said the petition, although signed by respectable names, commenced with a misrepresentation of his notice, and concluded with a calumny upon the entire body of the Catholic Members; but names, no matter how respectable, could not give validity to falsehood, while on men of great ostensible piety, and exceedingly ostentatious religion, the deliberate and malignant dissemination of calumny reflected the deepest discredit. The hon. Baronet, who, with so much poisoned suavity, had given utterance to such gross imputations, had stated at the outset that the petition was not intrusted to the Members for Birmingham or for Warwickshire, but to himself. The petitioners, indeed, had selected an appropriate medium in order to give vent to their rancorous devotion. But the hon. Baronet had omitted to state that there was a counter petition, signed by a vast body of the people of Birmingham, passed at a public meeting, with the High Bailiff of that important town in the chair, in which the abuses of the Irish Church were vehemently denounced. The petition from the charitable religionists, who imputed perjury to all those who dared to dissent from them in the construction of words susceptible of a variety of interpretations, commenced their statement with a gross misrepresentation of his notice. They had suppressed the fact that the notice referred only to persons to be hereafter appointed. He (Mr. Sheil) had been misstated in the same way by a part of the Conservative press. He thought it necessary to defend himself; and  The Times, 990 l. 991 992 l. 993
 Mr. Sheil : Certainly not; but the better way would be to read the notice, as it is given correctly in the Votes.
 Mr. Sheil : That is not my notice.
 Mr. Sheil : There is a most important omission in it—an omission that seems to have been purposely made. The word "thenceforth" is left out.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  did not think the House would be more able to decide upon this Clause to-morrow than it was at that moment, therefore, he thought the better way would be to proceed with it. [ "Divide, divide."
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  contended, that the House must legislate upon general principles, and not be guided by cases of exception. He thought that a very small number of persons who had business in town resided in the country. The great misfortune in the Reform Bill was, that the Government gave way too much. He hoped that the present Government would not fall into this error, but would resist all Amendments which were not conformable to the general spirit of the Bill.
 Mr. Ewart  said, though the noble Lord had spoken correctly of the modern system practised in boroughs, he had not alluded to the original Saxon system, which was quite different. He contended that ancient authority and modern experience were in favour of the expediency of the hon. Member's Amendment
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  begged also to suggest that, as it was contended that under this Clause all the property and rights of the present bodies corporate would pass to the new Corporations, some additional words were necessary. He would illustrate his meaning by stating that the four lecturers of the City of Oxford were appointed or elected not by the whole body corporate, but by the Mayor, Aldermen, Assistants, and Recorder, as Trustees for the body under deed. The Clause would enact that the new Corporation might do all acts which might now lawfully be done by the present Corporation. He (Mr. Hughes Hughes) thought it would be necessary to add, "or by any members of the body corporate, as Trustees for the whole, or otherwise in their corporate capacity," or words to that effect.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  stated, that the present style of the body corporate of the city he had the honour to represent was "the Mayor, Bailiffs, and commonalty of the City of Oxford;" that the Bill would abolish the office of Bailiffs, who, in cities and boroughs, performed the duties, which in counties devolved upon Sheriffs, of executing legal processes, and having custody of prisoners; and that no pro-
 1019
 Mr. Tooke  remarked, that nothing was so dangerous to argument as a reference to individual cases, and, much as he regretted the disfranchisement of his hon. Friend, the Member for Manchester, he thought it safer to abide by the clause as it stood.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  wished to put a question to the noble Lord opposite. The noble Lord was aware that a considerable number of Soldiers had been from time to time confined in County Gaols, and that great inconvenience had arisen from such a practice. What he desired to know was, whether it was the intention of Government to bring forward any measure to correct that grievance? If the noble Lord should say it was, he hoped such statement would be better observed than the promise that had been made on this subject by a Member of his Majesty's Government on a former occasion.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  could assure the noble Lord, that in putting the question as he had done, he had no intention of throwing any imputations on any one. He certainly had not put the question invidiously, but the noble Lord had said, the reasons for breaking the promise to which he had referred, were known to him. He could assure the House he was utterly ignorant of any such reasons. When he was in office he had used every exertion with a view to find that any thing had been done on the subject, but he certainly had not been fortunate enough to meet with any trace of the provisions or arrangements which the noble Lord had talked of; and it was only to night, for the first time, he had heard of them. He had received a promise from the Secretary at War, when Lord Melbourne was last in office, that they should be attended to. It had not been, and hence his present inquiry.
 Sir Frederick Pollock  said, that if it were a question of mere name he should not occupy the time of the House for one single instant. Had it even been a change in the name, made purely for the sake of change, still he might not have resisted, but he would contend that although it was true that the margin of the Clause contained only the change of name, and went no further, the Clause itself effected a most material change of substance. The effect of the Clause was, not only that Corporations should be called by another name, but that they should do and suffer all the acts that hitherto had been done or suffered by the old Corporations. He admitted that opportunities might occur hereafter to discuss this point, but still he would maintain that the point was of considerable importance. In his opinion the House was at that moment passing one of the most material Clauses of the whole Bill. The Clause enacted that the new Corporations should exercise all the functions of the old, and surely it was worth while to consider whether certain integral parts of the old were to be retained in the new or not?
 Sir Frederick Pollock  said, that the Clause as it now stood, provided for two classes of boroughs—first, those which had now the Parliamentary boundaries as settled under the Reform Act, and secondly those the boundaries of which it was proposed to be settled by the King in Council, or that "they should be and remain as they now are." These last words prevented the possibility of any such event as had been contemplated by the hon. Member for Shaftesbury (Mr. Poulter). He was opposed to the adoption of a new principle—a principle entirely at variance with the constitution—in the deciding upon these boundaries. He said at variance with the constitution, because he denied the authority of his hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney-General, in respect to what he had urged as to the prerogative of the Crown in this respect, and still more did he object to such a prerogative as had been contended for by his hon. and learned Friend, when he looked to the 79th section of this Bill. His hon. and learned Friend had said, that it was the prerogative of the Crown to settle the boundaries. So it might be in boroughs newly created, but he denied any such prerogative where the boroughs were to be enlarged, unless the parties already holding a charter, and those intended to be included in the enlargement, should consent. It was new to him to hear that the prerogative extended  in invitos.
 Mr. Mark Philips  thought it hard that persons should require to be inhabitants of a town for three whole years before they acquired the rights of citizens.
 Mr. Mark Philips  said that, notwithstanding the objection made by the learned Attorney-General, he should support the Amendment, for he knew many instances where persons would be disfranchised if the clause was left unaltered. He was himself one of those individuals, and he should certainly feel considerably aggrieved by being kept out of political existence. This would be very generally the case in many large manufacturing towns, and particularly in the City of London. Persons living out of town but paying rates in respect of property of many thousands-a-year would have no voice in the management of the revenues to which they so largely contributed.
 Mr. Philips  said, that it appeared to
 1050
 Mr. Ward  said, that he had thought the meaning of the Clause was intended to be, that three years was the  maximum
 Sir James Graham  said, that no person was more anxious than he was for the removal of corporate abuses, and with this feeling he could not be thought to be disposed to frustrate the objects for which this Bill was framed. He had no regard to any particular city or borough, but he had a great regard to constitutional principles, and he was not prepared to delegate to the executive Government powers which more properly and rightly could be carried into effect by the Legislative Body. On that ground, therefore, he was disposed to support the Amendment of the noble Lord, the Member for Arundel. That Amendment could not, in his judgment, create any delay; and though he admitted some inconvenience might arise, yet it was bet-
 1026
 Sir James Graham  wished to know the reason why the boundaries of certain boroughs were left by the Bill to be fixed by the King in Council. He would mention in particular the boroughs of Plymouth and Coventry.
 Sir James Graham  contended that it was highly objectionable that the boundaries of Plymouth and Coventry should be fixed by any other power than an Act of Parliament. The present Clause gave by far too great a power to the King and Council. In the Reform Bill, after the principle had been fully discussed, the power of fixing boundaries had not been confided to the King in Council, but had been exercised by the Houses of Parliament.
 The Attorney-General  wished only to remind the House that the King had possessed such a power from time immemorial. It had always been a part of the prerogative of the Crown. The House would, of course, be always open to any complaint against an undue exercise of the power.
 The Attorney-General  said, that the clause continued the identity of the old Corporations, and the amount of the identity of the new Corporations was to be determined by the Act. The privileges of the old Corporations would be conveyed to the new. The Court of Aldermen might have all its functions preserved to it, although it might not be mentioned by name in the Corporation. There were numerous instances of this now existing.
 The Attorney-General  said, that the arguments brought by the noble Lord (Stanley) against the period stated in the Clause would apply to any other period that might be fixed; because even if the amendment of the hon. Member for Mary-la-bonne were adopted, a person taking possession at the term immediately following the month of September would necessarily be three years and nine months in possession before he became entitled to the franchise.
 The Attorney-General  expressed his opinion that all ambiguity was removed by the introduction of the words "from the first day of January in the year of our Lord—," which would prevent any man from voting at the annual elections unless he had occupied the same house for two years and ten months previously. This was the very shortest period of occupancy permitted as a qualification by the Bill, while the proposition of the noble Lord, the Member for Lancashire, would make it three years and ten months.
 The Attorney-General  replied, that the case was not very likely to arise, inasmuch as the annual elections, unlike the elections for Members of Parliament, would take place very shortly after the registration.
 The Attorney-General  hoped the right hon. Baronet would not insist upon this alteration. In many boroughs there were sufficient funds for all Municipal purposes without its being necessary to levy a rate. On the other hand, the Poor-rates would form an universal test; they were quite high enough, and he feared they would long continue so.
 The Attorney-General  said, that although many persons of great respectability would not enjoy the elective franchise under this Bill, that was a circumstance which could not be guarded against without opening the door to very serious evils. A lodger, though he might have resided in the town for twenty years, with 10,000 l.
 The Attorney-General  remarked, that the scale, certainly ought to be uniform, and he was inclined to take the standard as the crow flies.
 The Attorney-General  said, that where the present Corporations held as trustees, the new Corporations would hold, subject to the same trusts; but that where the present Corporations held subject to the best law they had been able to devise among themselves, that property would be applicable to the provisions of the Bill. Wherever it was property wholly in trustees in trust, those trusts would be continued, but where there was no trust, the property would become absolutely available to the Act.
 The Attorney - General  thought that the provisions of the Bill could not be fairly construed into any unwarrantable infringement on the rights of the Crown.
 Mr. Jervis  said, that in several places in North Wales, the Crown exercised the right of appointing the officers in the Corporation.
 Mr. Jervis  consented to withdraw his Amendment.
 Mr. Jervis  proposed an Amendment to the clause to the effect (as we understood) that persons who were carrying on business in a place should be entitled to vote, even if they did not live within seven miles of the town. He thought it a hard case that persons having a large stake in a place should, in such circumstances, be deprived of the franchise.
 Mr. Jervis  said, that in his opinion the effect of the clause, as it at present stood, would be, that any person occupying a warehouse, shop, or premises to any extent whatever, within the borough, whatever his amount of rating might be, or whatever his circumstances—whether he were a bachelor having a lodging of his own private occupation, or a married man residing with his family within seven miles of the borough—would be entirely and wholly disqualified from voting. The wording of the Clause was extremely limited; it merely provided "that any person who on the last day of August in any year, should have been an inhabitant householder within any borough, or within seven miles thereof, and should have occupied any house, warehouse, counting-house, or shop." The objection would have been removed if the Clause contained the words "or other buildings," which were entirely omitted, and the insertion of which he conceived would obviate the objection to which he had directed the attention of the Committee.
 Mr. Jervis : In Carnarvon, Conway, and all North Wales, the Crown had the right of nominating to offices in the Corporation.
 Sir Robert Inglis —I am sure the hon. Gentleman does not attribute any such omission to me.
 Sir Robert Inglis : I quote it as it has been given to me.
 Sir Robert Inglis  then read the notice as follows from the Votes:—On the first day of going into a Committee of Supply, to move a Resolution, that no person who shall be thenceforth appointed to any Ecclesiastical benefice or dignity in Ireland, shall be deemed to have any such vested interest as to entitle such person to compensation, in the event of such benefice or dignity being suppressed." He was quite ready to give the hon. and learned Member the full benefit of the word "thenceforth." In his (Sir R. Inglis's) apprehension of the case, it made very little difference with regard to that evil against which he and the petitioners protested. The petitioners proceeded to state, that this notice was evidently conceived in a spirit of hostility to the Established Church of Ireland. Now certainly people should be very chary in attributing motives to others, but when they came to the construction of acts, it was a different thing, and he was
 981 982 mutatis mutandis, 983 Morning Chronicle, Sheil: 984 985 986 animum imponentis. primâ facie 987 "Yes," 988 animum imponentis. animus imponentis, animus 989
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that he had the honour of having intrusted to him for presentation to that House, a Petition from a very influential and numerous body of the inhabitants of Birmingham and its vicinity, in reference to a notice of a Motion which had been given on a former occasion by the hon. and learned Member for Tipperary; and in reference to the Oath which that hon. Member and the other Catholic Members of that House had taken, and which Oath was, in the judgment of the Petitioners, inconsistent with any such Motion. He need hardly
 980
 Sir Robert Peel  begged to remind the hon. and learned Gentleman, that there were one or two hundred Corporations, in some of which the Crown enjoyed distinct rights—in some the absolute right of nomination. All he desired was, that these rights should not be interfered with unless leave was given.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the question which had been put by his hon. Friend (Mr. Estcourt)
 999
 Sir Robert Peel  remarked, that as this clause abolished all existing charters, the rights of the Crown should not be interfered with, unless by authority.
 Sir Robert Peel  expressed his approval of that course.
 Sir Robert Peel  wished to know whether the sense of the House would be taken on the schedule?
 Sir Robert Peel  would take the case of a right confirmed by charter, or by a recent Act of Parliament—the case of a Corporation possessed of certain lands in the neighbourhood of a town, and an Act of Parliament had given a right to the inhabitants of that town to acquire their freedom either by birth or service; a person residing in that town had an inchoate right to take out his freedom at a certain period; when he did so, under the recent Act of Parliament, he would become entitled to participate in certain lands in the neighbourhood. That would be a case of specific appropriation; and in such an instance was it intended that the Bill should preserve that right.
 Sir Robert Peel : There were some towns not included in either schedule A or B of the Bill introduced by the noble Lord. He was desirous to know what
 1016
 Sir Robert Peel  was never more surprised in his life than to hear the argument of the right hon. and learned Member. Here was a Bill which superseded all the prerogatives of the Crown. Here was a Bill which set aside all the charters granted by the Crown; here was a Bill which assumed for Parliament a right to supersede all those charters; and when the question occurred, whether there should be intrusted to Parliament the opportunity of fully discussing and finally determining the boundaries of boroughs, the right hon. and learned Gentleman turned round upon the House, and said, "Pray respect the prerogative of the Crown." He (Sir Robert Peel) would contend that, in conformity with the nature of the Bill, the metes and boundaries of boroughs should be determined by Parliament. In the case of the Reform Bill the House had pursued this course; in the case of the boroughs individually reformed prior to the Reform Bill, the House had pursued the same course; and now he contended that the metes and boundaries should be determined by Parliament, now that Parliament had made so
 1021
 Sir Robert Peel  said, his object was not to postpone the operation of the Bill, and therefore he was ready to consent that the boundaries of the existing boroughs should continue until they should be otherwise settled by Parliament. If, therefore, the noble Lord, the Member for Stroud, would accede to the proposition that the metes and boundaries of the existing boroughs should remain as now, until otherwise settled by Parliament, and in the mean time apply the principles of the Bill wherever it might be necessary, it would be unnecessary for him to trouble the Committee further.
 Sir Robert Peel  apprehended that Parliament possessed the right to alter the boundaries, without any such reservation as that stated by the noble Lord, the Member for Stroud.
 Sir Robert Peel  observed, that the noble Lord, in answer to his argument, had stated that he knew of a particular borough in which the limits were so extended by the Reform Act as to include many distant villages, to which great inconvenience would arise if by the present Bill they should be obliged to contribute to the support of a corporation, in whose interests, from their remoteness, it would be impossible for them to share; and further, the noble Lord had contended, that although it might be proper to include the whole of the constituency of these extended boroughs for Parliamentary purposes, still it would not be proper to include them as voters for mere municipal purposes. Besides this, throughout the whole of his argument the noble Lord assumed, that if the Amendment of the noble Lord, the Member for Arundel, were adopted, the limits prescribed by the Reform Act were the limits which would be established under the Bill then before them. The fact was just the reverse; for if the Noble Lord's Amendment were carried, the old municipal limit of the borough was the limit which would be established, until some other limit had been constitutionally determined upon. He apprehended that, in almost every in-
 1028
 Sir Robert Peel  might, perhaps, not get credit with some portion of the House for a desire to render the provisions of the Bill as efficient as possible. This, however, was the motive by which he was actuated, and with this object in view, he must say that he thought the adoption of the suggestion made by the hon. Member who had just sat down would be productive of very great abuses. Take the case of a man owning houses in a village within
 1038
 Sir Robert Peel  did not complain of the noble Lord substituting one clause for another: he merely mentioned the fact as an excuse for any want of readiness in the objections that might be urged, because it really was very difficult for hon. Members to accommodate their amendments to a clause which he had read a minute before for the first time. He understood the noble Lord's amendment to extend to "any house, warehouse, counting-house, or shop." Now, in the first place, he wished to put the case of a wharf, a wharf might be rated at a very large sum, and its proprietor might reside within seven miles of the borough, and yet he, although in every other respect one of the description of persons which the noble Lord wished to enfranchise, would be deprived of the privilege because he would not come within the precise definition selected by the noble Lord. Again, let them take the case of an office—a solicitor's office for instance. He did not think the words, "house, warehouse, counting-house, or shop," would include even the proprietor of this class of tenements. He therefore begged to suggest the introduction of the words "office or wharf," after the word "shop"
 Sir Robert Peel  repeated his objection, and expressed his opinion that in such a case a man would be considered as entitled to vote.
 Sir Robert Peel  inquired whether a person, being on the burgess roll, and afterwards ceasing to reside, would not be entitled to vote in the interval?
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that his only object was to ensure a continuous occupancy for three years, which he understood to be the  bonâ fide
 Sir Robert Peel  said, if the debate were to be adjourned at so early an hour as this (half-past twelve) every night, the session would be interminable. This Bill, in fact, involved the consideration of 150
 1044
 Sir Robert Peel  observed, that it was very difficult to lay down any arrangement that would not include some cases of hardship. The question was, what general principle was the best to adopt, and he concurred with the noble Lord in thinking that inhabitancy was the best qualification for the franchise. The danger from evasion and abuse would be greatly increased, if the hon. Member's Amendment were assented to, and it would be difficult to conceive any means of averting the danger of being overpowered with which a constituency would be threatened. Entertaining these opinions, he should vote against the Amendment.
 Sir Robert Peel  asked how it was possible to determine the distance of seven miles as the crow flies, unless there was first pointed out some spot for the crow to fly from.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that his proposition was, that if a Borough-rate should be made by the council after the Act had passed, the payment of that rate should be necessary to complete the qualification.
 Sir Robert Peel  observed, that if the Poor-law Bill reduced the Poor-rates, which he believed the noble Lord expected it would, the payment that would be made for the Poor-rate would be exceedingly small. The noble Lord was going to put all parties who contributed to certain rates on the same footing, and he really thought the Borough-rate ought to be taken in addition to the Poor-rate. Those who paid rates for the relief of the poor, and contributed to Municipal charges, and had paid, up all their arrears, ought to
 1049
 Sir Robert Peel  suggested, that the local authorities might perambulate the borough, and fix upon some definite spot from which the distance might be measured.
 Sir Robert Peel  had given notice of an Amendment in which he hoped the noble Lord would concur. He wished the payment of borough-rates to be made necessary to the completeness of the qualification.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that by the operation of the new Bill all houses could be exposed to the impost of Borough-rates, and he only spoke of that rate which would be imposed by the Act.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he did not intend at present to move an Amendment which might have the effect of obstructing the full consideration of this most important Clause, but that he should avail himself of some other opportunity of taking the sense of the House upon it.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that hon. Gentlemen might divide if they pleased, and make the most of themselves they could, but that that should not deprive him of exercising his privilege as a Member of that House, to bring forward whatever proposition he should think right upon this Clause. If the noble Lord would agree that he should have an equally good opportunity of bringing forward his proposition hereafter he should not further object, but he would not be forced to make a Motion he had not maturely considered. He had made no speech on his proposition; he had merely asked a question, and expressed a wish which had given rise to all
 1051
 Sir Samuel Whalley  opposed the proposition of the noble Lord, the Member for Lancashire; the effect of which, in the event of its being carried, would be to disqualify every man who might chance to have occupied one house continuously for two years and eleven months; and to require, in fact, a residence of three years and eleven months as to the qualification.
 1039
 Mr. Hutt  supported the Amendment. He saw no reasons why persons qualified to vote for Members of Parliament should not be entitled to vote in boroughs. He sincerely hoped that the hon. Member for Exeter would persevere in his Motion.
 Viscount Howick  hoped the House would indulge him for one moment, while he endeavoured to bring them back to what he considered the real Question before them. It had been said by several Gentlemen that the effect of this Clause would be to disfranchise considerable numbers of persons. Now, he conceived that in this there was a considerable mistake. It could hardly be said that they disfranchised those persons, when the real fact was, that they did not propose to extend the franchise to them. The only question before the House was, whether they were to extend the enfranchisement to a greater or less number. In his opinion, there ought to be such a length of residence to entitle a man to a vote as to show that he was a permanent resident, and had a permanent interest in the welfare of the borough. It ought likewise to be in the recollection of the House that, by the old system, birth, or a servitude of seven years entitled a person to the freedom of a borough. That system was to be done away because it in fact gave those a power over the town who did not live in it. The hon. Member's Amendment would to a degree revive some thing of that kind, for it would enable those who had only temporary interests in a town to impose permanent burdens upon the inhabitants, was that proper? His impression was that the Clause ought to remain as it stood.
 Viscount Howick  confessed he had been greatly amused at the manner of the right hon. Baronet who had just sat down. The right hon. Baronet had accused him (Lord Howick) of applying the instance of the Scotch Bill, and of making a mistake with respect to the Question really before the House. Upon one point, at least, the right hon. Baronet was in a mistake: it was not he who stated that the powers of the Commissioners to divide a borough into wards, or to alter or extend the limits of a borough, were identical and the same. He never stated, that those powers were analogous; but it was the right hon. Baronet himself who had made that statement. The right hon. Baronet first of all stated, that it was the dividing into wards which would be unconstitutional on the part of the Crown. In fact, the right hon. Baronet had placed a notice upon the Order Paper, to the effect that he should submit a Motion to prevent the introduction of the unconstitutional practice of dividing boroughs into wards by an Order in Council. [Sir  Robert Peel 1029
 Viscount Howick  could point out a case in which, under the Boundaries Bill that was passed upon the Reform Bill being completed, twelve or fourteen villages were included within the limits of a borough from which they were very distant. In such a case it would be at once inconvenient and unjust to make the villages subject to municipal taxation, for objects which they could not be supposed to have in common with the borough in question.
 Viscount Howick  remarked, that though the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, had said he did not seek by the Amendment he had suggested, to postpone the operation of the Bill, yet he thought the right hon. Baronet had not seen all the difficulties which the adoption of that suggestion would throw in the way of a successful operation of the measure. If the question of the boundaries were allowed to remain unsettled while the other portions of the Bill were permitted to come into force, much inconvenience and some injustice would arise. The noble Lord,
 1025
 Viscount Howick  admitted the importance of the office of Bailiff, and said, that under Clause 42, which gave power to the council of every city or borough to appoint town clerk, treasurer, and other officers, it would be necessary to make provision for the due discharge of the duties of that officer.
 Viscount Howick  hoped, the right hon. Baronet would accede to the Clause as it stood to-night, and then he might move a separate Clause as an Amendment tomorrow, on which, if he pleased, he might take the sense of the House.
 Viscount Howick  wished to justify himself against the charge of the right hon. Gentleman. The right hon. Gentleman had given him notice of his intention to put the question, admitting at the same time that it was a difficult subject to deal with, and he was prepared to have answered it in the most simple and courteous manner; but, when the right hon. Baronet had appended to his inquiry, a hope that the answer to be given would be better observed than the promise which had been given before, he could not fail to feel some warmth. He had said he had found nothing in any of the offices to show that arrangements had been in progress to meet the evil. The right hon. Baronet knew very well, that until a thing of this sort was completed, all that passed, passed in conversation, and did not appear on paper. Three clauses were introduced by himself into an Act of Parliament in the course of the last year, and if Lord Melbourne had not gone out of office, the Act would have been passed into a law before this time.
 Viscount Howick  had great pleasure in informing the right hon. Baronet, that arrangements for remedying the evil he had so justly complained of, were far advanced in preparation, and would be immediately completed. But he could not give that answer without observing, in reference to the latter part of what had been stated by the right hon. Gentleman, that last year arrangements were undertaken, and were in a very forward state, for meeting this evil. Certain clauses were introduced by
 998
 Lord Sandon  felt called upon, in consequence of representing a considerable number of that class of voters with whose rights it was, he believed, meant to interfere, to offer a few remarks on the Motion before the House. He was inclined to think that the best course was to allow the Bill to go into Committee; but he must at the same time say, that he thought there were strong grounds on which the proposition of the hon. Member might be justified. The Bill professed to be one for "the Reform of Municipal Corporations, and the better government of these bodies;" but by the admissions which his noble Friend the Member for Stroud had made, it would appear to be a measure for the mending of certain clauses in the second Reform Bill, which had been, it was stated, adopted as the result of a sort of compromise which had been come to by that House. The noble Lord had in his speech that night thrown off the mask completely; for he admitted that he did not approve of the reservation of the rights of freemen, which were not allowed under the first Reform Bill, but that he consented to the change for the purpose of getting it passed through the other House of Parliament. The noble Lord did not, however,
 1013 in limine
 Lord Sandon : I only stated that the proposed clause in the Municipal Bill would have the effect of altering the Reform Bill.
 Lord Sandon  inquired from what point the seven miles mentioned in the Clause were to be measured, and what standard of distance was to be taken.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  thought, when he first saw the petition, that from the language of it, the statements could not be established. He was quite sure he should not be suspected of encouraging intimidation at elections; but he had sent for Mr. Newman a day or two after he had heard of the accusation, and as Mr. Loader had petitioned the Corporation, he (Alderman Wood) was in possession of the whole truth of the case. It appeared that Mr. Loader had been in the service of Mr. Newman for eighteen years, having been taken by him an apprentice for seven years from Christ's Hospital; some time before the election he had received notice to quit Mr. Newman's service. Mr. Newman had employed him as a writer to make out the accounts of the Bridge House Estates, and he had not been in the service of the Corporation. Mr. Newman was surveyor of the Borough, and brother of the City Solicitor. Before the election, Mr. Newman told Mr. Loader, that, having an opportunity of doing so, he would put him into a house where he might reside, but, that in consequence, he should give him 50 l. l. 1053
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that though he could not answer the hon. Member's questions in the exact order in which he had put them, he was quite ready to give him the information he required. When he had said, that he intended to propose an equalization of the duty on Coffee, he had added that he should, at the same time, take care that the relief did not extend beyond Coffee the growth of our own territories; and that the Coffee produced, for instance, in the Dutch East Indies, and other parts of Asia, should not have the same advantage as Coffee grown in the English possessions. He must apologize for doing more than answer the questions put, but something more was necessary. In order to give effect to the distinction, it would be required that the Coffee, claiming the exemption, should be accompanied by evidence to show that it was the growth and produce of one of our colonies: that was to say, that a certificate of origin should be sent with the Coffee, in order to entitle it to exemption. It was quite clear that the equalization of duty ought to apply to Coffee only which was imported with that evidence; and consequently, the East-India Coffee now in bond in this country, being unaccompanied by any such certificate of origin, would not be entitled to the exemption. As to the third question, relating to the mode and manner, they would be made known when the Bill was introduced. It would be his desire, in proposing an equalization of duty, to take care to prevent any abuse of the privilege which he hoped the House would concur with him in conferring.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  suggested the omission of the words "after parochial relief" which would remove the whole difficulty.
 Mr. Bonham Carter  observed that individuals were disqualified by receiving alms, and the words were so general that he feared they would have a more extensive application than was intended. He thought it would be better to confine the disqualification to such persons as received alms given by the trustees of the town.
 The Solicitor-General  was of the same opinion. He thought that too enlarged a sense was given to the word "alms." If all charities were alms, he questioned whether the Bill would not deprive himself, and several other hon. Members, who, as Fellows of Colleges, were benefited by funds which, in one sense, might be considered eleemosynary. What was intended by the Clause was, that persons should not be allowed to vote who were dependent on charity for their support, being in a state of poverty or pauperism.
 Lord Stanley  said, that, according to the proposed Clause, any person might be struck off the burgess-roll for non-payment of rates, and he might then, provided that next year he occupied a house—whether he had ceased to occupy it in the mean time or not—simply by the payment of the rates for alternate years, be admitted as a burgess, just in the same manner as if he had paid the rates for the three years. If his noble Friend meant to say, that the person who, from accidental circumstances, was omitted from the burgess-roll, or because he had for a short time left the borough and returned again, and who should pay the whole amount of rates due in the interval of the three years, and then continue to occupy, that his intermediate absence should not be taken into account, to disqualify him from being admitted, he (Lord Stanley), for one, should not say one word in opposition. But if he meant to say, that the person who, in the year 1833, had not paid the rates necessary to qualify him to vote in 1835, should, if he paid in 1834 not the rates of 1833 and 1834, but the rates of 1834 alone, be entitled to vote in 1835, he (Lord Stanley) did think that such an arrangement would do away with the whole object of the portion of the Bill in question, which was that of producing a continuous rate-paying. He had no object beyond taking care that the rights and privileges conferred by the Bill were given to the permanent occupiers and rate-payers of the boroughs. While he was speaking, he would mention one case which he thought deserving of attention, in the way of extending the right of freedom. He would suggest that where a person should succeed to property in a borough, by will or inheritance, the person to whom he succeeded having paid the rates for the three years, a provision might be made, under which the person so succeeding should be placed in the situation of the person whom he had succeeded, and enjoy the benefit of the continuous rate-paying. He wished, however, to have a distinct explanation from his noble Friend on the subject of the first point to which he had alluded. If the intention of the clause were that a person paying the rates in alternate years, and refusing, from fraud or other causes, to pay at all, should be entitled to be put in the burgess-roll, he (Lord Stanley) should
 1063
 Lord Stanley  said, that his noble Friend did not appear to see the whole force of his objection. The Clause, as it originally stood, was very imperative. It said, "that if any person who shall have been enrolled a burgess of any body corporate within any borough, according to the provisions of this Act, shall at any time thereafter cease to occupy any house, warehouse, counting-house, or shop within the borough"—that referred to the case of absence—"or," continued the Clause, "neglect or refuse to pay such rates as aforesaid due from him at the time of the revision of the burgess-roll, except as hereinbefore is excepted, his name shall at the next revision of the burgess-roll be struck out from the said burgess-roll, and he shall
 1064 bona fide
 Lord Stanley  was satisfied by the explanation of his noble Friend as to what were the opinions of the Government; but knowing that the Clause had excited doubts in the minds of many, he thought it worth
 1065
 Lord Stanley  would ask his hon. and learned Friend, then, whether he would have any objection to limit the means of re-admission to that case, by inserting words such as would bring the Clause into some such shape as the following:—"That if any person who shall have been enrolled a burgess of any body corporate within any borough, according to the provisions of this Act, shall, at any time thereafter, by reason of the interruption of such occupancy, be omitted," &c.
 The Chairman  said, the question was that the Clause be omitted. The object proposed by the hon. Member would, however, be much better answered by waiting
 1069
 Mr. William Williams  said, that he admired and had supported the principle of the present Bill, yet he should feel it his duty to vote for the Amendment which had been proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Exeter. He should do so, because he thought the Clause, as it now stood, was a great infringement of the principles and provisions of the Act of Parliamentary Reform. By that great measure the rights and privileges of freemen had been preserved and maintained, and of that body in the city he had the honour to represent (Coventry) he could state, that a more virtuous constituency did not exist in this country. [ "No, no." l., 1087 l. 1088
 Mr. Vernon Smith  considered the Clause now under consideration was one of the most valuable in the whole Bill, both in its direct and in its indirect effects. The hon. and learned Member for Exeter had, by a reference to the case of Sir Thomas White's charity, got himself into a bit of a scrape. For though much of his speech had turned upon the situation of Coventry in reference to that charity, the borough which he had the honour to represent was interested in that charity, as being one of the twenty-four boroughs which were benefitted by the bequest; and he would show the hon. and learned Gentleman, and the Committee, how and in what manner the loans under the charity were brought to bear for certain purposes. A portion of that charity was distributable in loans, as had already been stated, to individuals selected by the corporation, and the mode of distribution thus appeared in the Report of the Commissioners.—"A witness of the name of Jeffery, a baker, deposed that he had petitioned several times, but always unsuccessfully, for the loan, which it was an object to him in his business to obtain. He had always voted at the elections on the Whig side, but had never taken an active part. On one occasion, when canvassing he had called upon an alderman of Northampton. The alderman, when applied to, said, 'I almost forgot—how did you vote at the election?' On the other 'answering that he always voted on the Whig side' the alderman replied, 'How then can you expect any favour to be shown you by the corporation?' On another occasion a common-councilman said to him, 'It was of no use trying for the loan, for he should not have it,' and asked him 'how he was such a fool as to vote against the corporation.'"
 Mr. Vernon Smith  said, that the interruption did not make the distribution of the charities elsewhere less discreditable than it appeared from the Report which he had read. He contended that, after what he had stated to the Committee, as well as upon principle, it would be a mutilation of the Bill to omit the Clause now under discussion, and to such a mutilation he could not consent, even though it was sought on behalf of the freemen of the city of Coventry, and he would urge the noble Lord (Russell) not to leave a vestige of those ancient rights of freemen, so anomalously apparent. The hon. and learned Member for Exeter had said, that the present Bill had been introduced without inquiry. He (Mr. Smith) contended that the fullest investigation had been gone into, and he only doubted whether or not many of the principles of this measure might safely have been embodied long since in a Bill without any evidence, for, in his opinion, they were in necessity and justice self-evident. He denied that it had been any part of the bargain for the passing of the Reform Bill that the rights of freemen should be retained, or that any contract had been made in that respect from which the Legislature ought not to depart. He perfectly agreed in what had fallen from his noble Friend who introduced the Bill, that of all the evils of the present corporation system, the greatest was that which gave power to the few by the corruption of the many, and that although hereditary Legislators might be beneficial to a State, hereditary electors, such as those whose privileges it was now sought to maintain inviolate, were not to be justified. He hoped, therefore, that the Committee would not hesitate in agreeing to the Clause as it at present stood in the Bill.
 Captain Berkeley  was bound to say on behalf of those whom he represented, that if the Clause were carried, one half of his constituents would be at once disfranchised, they being too the very class of persons on whom the franchise was conferred only two years ago. He should vote for the Amendment for the very reason which had been stated by the noble Lord the Member for Stroud, Lord John Russell—namely, that these freemen were allowed to retain their franchise under the Reform Bill for the mere purpose of enabling the then Government to conciliate, and to bring that Reform Bill to a successful termination. As this argument was urged
 1106
 Lord Stanley  said, that his right hon. Friend, the Member for Cumberland (Sir James Graham) had been charged with unfairness, in stating that the Clause indirectly accomplished an object which it sought to conceal. He (Lord Stanley) complained of it as an indirect mode of proceeding, for this reason, that the Bil now before the House professed to be a measure for the regulation of the Municipal Corporations of England and Wales. An hon. Gentleman who had just now spoken, following the example of other hon. Members of that House, had calumniated, he would venture to say, the great body of the freemen of this country. Now he did not mean to contend that the freemen, as a class, had been or perhaps were either pure or immaculate, but then he believed that no body of electors in the world was absolutely so; and this he would say, that be they as pure as perfection itself, or be they as foul and as base as they were represented to be even by the hon. and learned Attorney-General—be they altogether and exclusively fit to exercise electoral functions, or be they wholly and utterly incapable to exercise even the lowest of those functions, to those functions the present measure did not propose to admit them; from those functions it did not propose to exclude them. They were not now called upon to discuss the propriety of admitting them to exercise political functions. The question merely was, their fitness as a Municipal body. Then what became of the great and grave objection which had been urged against the class of voters coming under the denomination of freemen? Why, the objection after all merely amounted to this—that they were unfit to exercise a franchise which was not sought to be conferred upon them by this Bill for political purposes, but a franchise they were permitted to retain by another Bill for other purposes; that other measures forming no part of the present discussion. He stood upon the plain and simple ground that the rights of the freemen were solemnly guaranteed, as his noble Friend had said, to secure the passing of the Reform Bill. If that measure of Reform were now sought to be rescinded, the fair and manly course was
 1107
 Mr. O'Connell  hoped he might also express his belief, without the appearance of egotism, that he was a true prophet. He had declared his conviction on the preceding night, that so much affection had been expressed for the principle of the Bill as would ultimately very nearly destroy its most valuable provisions; and he really thought his prophecy would be pretty well accomplished if the Amendment were agreed to. He was really
 1110 Stanley: l. l. 1111 Sandon: 1112
 Mr. Scarlett  said, that as there was still some doubt about the point which had just been discussed, perhaps the noble
 1066
 Lord John Russell  remarking, that the Clause would in all probability receive alteration in one or two particulars, and promising that words of the same meaning (because the words of the noble Lord (Lord Stanley) were not perhaps the best that might be used) as those proposed, would be used in the framing of the Clause before it was submitted for the final decision of the House.
 Lord John Russell  was not of opinion that the difficulty contemplated by his noble Friend would arise under the Clause, or that any case of fraud was likely to occur. In the case of non-payment of rates, he did not think that it was possible to frame any Clause which should provide for the refusal to pay, or for absence caused by a fraudulent disposition, or some other circumstance. It was necessary to frame the Clause with regard to the general probability of the case. If a man did not pay his rates, it was to be supposed generally that he was absent at the time; that he had been called away to go to sea, or to visit some distant part of the country in consequence of commercial business, and that because of attending to that business he had omitted to do that which he had done constantly for perhaps five, six, or ten years before, viz. pay the rates necessary to qualify him to become a burgess. In that case, which ought to be looked on as the general one, a hardship would arise, if it were not permitted to the individual, under such circumstances, to be again admitted, without passing through the whole three years. His noble Friend said, "Let him pay the rates during the whole intermediate time of his absence;" but he (Lord John Russell) did not think it necessary to require that. Having been previously for three years an inhabitant of the borough, and having paid his rates for that period, he ought to be allowed to obtain re-admission by simply continuing again to pay from the time that he returned to the borough.
 Lord John Russell  repeated that it would be better for hon. Gentlemen to reserve their observations on this subject, till the Committee had gone through the Clauses relating to Charities and Trusts.
 Lord John Russell  then proposed to substitute the amended Clause which had been printed, and for some time in the hands of Members, to the effect "That burgesses who have been enrolled, but are afterwards omitted from the roll, may be
 1062
 Lord John Russell  said, that the Committee had been the whole night discussing this and another Clause, and he thought it had been quite sufficiently considered. The only question then before them was, whether they should adopt the Clause or not? He should, for his part, consider it his duty to press the Committee to dispose of it.
 Lord John Russell  replied, that with respect to the existing freemen, it was only necessary that their names should be enrolled upon a register, and continued upon it as long as they lived, according to the precedent of the first Reform Act. No new names would be entered on the register, and no difficulty, he imagined, could arise.
 Lord John Russell  was of opinion that the same machinery could not be applied to them, inasmuch as they could not be so easily ascertained.
 Lord John Russell  thought it necessary, in the first place, after the warning which his right hon. Friend (Sir James Graham) had had the goodness to give him and those who had enjoyed the good fortune of being Members of Lord Grey's Administration, to say that he thanked his right hon. Friend for his advice; and, in the second place, to tell him the reason and the motive upon which he was not disposed to act upon that advice. He owned he was the less disposed to follow that advice because it was not the first time on which he had observed that his right hon. Friend, who with him (Lord J. Russell) and with others encountered so boldly the dangers and obstacles which were placed in the way of the Reform Bill—dangers and obstacles as great perhaps as any Government ever encountered—had appeared since that period, he knew not why, to allow certain fears and apprehensions to enter his mind, which seemed rather to betoken that his right hon. Friend in concurring with his colleagues in bringing forward the Reform Bill, had not duly weighed those consequences which must necessarily and unavoidably result from it. He had observed, rather with amusement than otherwise, that it was quite sufficient for the hon. Member for Southwark, or the hon. Member for Middlesex, or any other Gentleman who
 1093 1094 1095 1096 l. l. 1097 1098
 Lord John Russell  thought, that the course which the hon. and learned Gentleman now proposed to take, afforded a direct answer to the charge of indirectness which had been made by his right hon. Friend.
 Lord John Russell  begged to say, in answer to the question put to him by the hon. Gentleman, that the hon. Gentleman did not seem to understand the object of this Clause. Its object was not to deprive existing freemen of the right of voting for Members of Parliament. He thought the clause was already sufficiently clear upon this point; otherwise he would propose the insertion of words that should expressly say, that all existing rights of freemen to vote for Members of Parliament should be preserved. But according to his construction of the Clause, the insertion of any such words would be totally unnecessary. The House would permit him to explain what the nature of the Clause really was. The proposal of his Majesty's Ministers was this:—that all Corporate bodies should in future consist of burgesses who were rate-payers, according to the 6th section of this Bill; and that there should be no other burgesses or freemen whatsoever. Therefore, after the existing lives of freemen were extinct, there certainly would not be any freemen in any borough who would have a right to vote for Members of Parliament.
 Lord John Russell  admitted there was a difficulty on the question, but he was of opinion, that the Clause should remain unaltered, at least, till after the Clause relating to the disposition of charities or trusts was passed.
 Lord John Russell  said, the Bill provided for that contingency.
 Lord J. Russell  concurred in the interpretation put upon the Clause by the right hon. Gentleman. A day was now fixed by which the inhabitants must have paid their rates, or they would not be inserted on the burgess roll.
 Lord J. Russell  would take the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet into consideration.
 Lord John Russell  thought that a discussion of the present views of the right hon. Baronet ought to be reserved till the discussion of the 79th Clause. The Bill provided that if there was a Borough-rate levied by the council in the nature of a County-rate, then the persons who paid the Poor-rate in the borough would pay an additional sum, which sum would not come in the shape of a separate rate, but in the nature of a Poor-rate.
 Mr. Hawes  said, the House would bear in mind, that the hon. Alderman had begun by denying the truth of the petition, and had gone on to admit all the principal facts it contained. It was not disputed that Mr. Newman solicited Mr. Loader's vote; that he sent to him during the election; that he was carried to the hustings in a coach; and which was most remarkable, that he was dismissed from his situation the very day after the election. He would give no opinion upon the comparative credit due to Mr. Newman or Mr. Loader, farther than to mention that he had several times seen the latter, and having sifted the whole case, was satisfied that it was true. He was sure that, after an examination by the Committee, the conduct of Mr. Newman would not stand in quite so favourable a light as the hon. Alderman seemed to imagine.
 Mr. Hawes  rose to present a Petition of which he had given notice, from Mr. John Thomas Loader, complaining of undue interference at the last election for Lambeth. The petitioner stated, that prior to that election, he was in the employ of Mr. John Newman, surveyor of the Bridge House Estates of the City of London, who applied to him to vote for Alderman Farebrother. Mr. Newman left his card for the petitioner; and, on one of the days of polling, a coach came for him, and he went in and voted for Mr. Alderman Farebrother. The petitioner did so, in consideration of his wife and three young children; and on the day after he had polled, he was dismissed from his situation by Mr. Newman, and had endured much poverty and inconvenience in consequence. Separate notices had been given by him to the hon. Members for the City of London that he should present this petition, and no doubt some endeavours would be made to explain the circumstances; but he considered it quite unbecoming the Corporation to
 1052
 Mr. Charles Barclay  wished to make a few observations. He had always thought, though not in Parliament at the time of the Reform Bill, that property and representation went hand-in-hand; and considered it as a great blot in that Bill, the continuing the freemen, and giving them the right to vote; he was convinced that the 10 l. 1085 l. no, W. M. Rolfe W. M. Rolfe 1086
 Mr. Charles Buller  said, some Gentlemen had complained that this Question was not brought forward in a proper and direct manner; but, for his part, he could not understand how there could possibly be any equivocation in the course adopted. Was there any reason why his Majesty's Ministers should endeavour to carry their object in an indirect manner; and even if they desired to do so, what possible hope
 1104 l. Name, name! 1105 Name, name!
 Colonel Sibthorp,  amid confusion, expressed his opinion that hon. Gentlemen opposite were afraid to hear the truth. He should be wanting in his duty to his constituents, if he could hear the Attorney-General abuse the freemen, as the curse of the country, and denounce the body corporate as a degraded and wretched race of people, without declaring the astonishment as well as the disgust, with which he had heard such a declaration from an individual holding a high and important station in the House, and one whose transactions were always marked by liberality, candour, and decency. The hon. Member for Liskeard (Mr. C. Buller) had looked upon that side of the House, and talked about the noble Lord (Sandon) being favourable to democracy. How came hon. Members upon that side of the House? Did they not vote against the rotten boroughs, as being an aristocratical part of the constitution? It was to the democracy they looked for their seats; and he thought that, to be consistent, those Gentlemen ought to be the very last to deprive that body of their rights to vote [ great confusion; loud cries of Divide, Adjourn, Oh! Oh! 1108
 Colonel Sibthorp  opposed the Motion in consequence of the lateness of the hour. It appeared to him that there was something like a collusion between the late and the present Attorney-General with respect to the Bill on this subject.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, the right hon. Baronet had stated that it would be a dangerous experiment to increase the constituency in such a town as Manchester, where by a local Act the constituency was restricted to all parties occupying premises rated to the amount of 16 l.
 Mr. Harvey  complained that the hon. and learned Attorney-General had shown so little kindness for the corporate constituencies, when he classed them all as denizens of gaols, and mean, wretched persons. He had been returned to that House for a space of upwards of eighteen years by the burgesses of Colchester, and he certainly could, from his own knowledge, as far as that borough was concerned, disprove the unkind assertion of the hon. Attorney-General. In place of finding them worse in proportion as they were necessitous, he had always, on the contrary, found that the poorer they were the more virtuously they acted. There was one observation which might be made by the hon. and learned Member for Exeter, who omitted it in his valuable dissection of the clause before the Committee; but as it was without the range of that hon. and learned Member's principles he (Mr. H.) could easily excuse him for the neglect of it. It was this: the effect of the Clause as it stood would be to destroy, almost immediately, no inconsiderable portion of the constituency of the country, in as far as cities and boroughs were in question, and eventually to annihilate more than half of the whole. He would take a case in point, Colchester, for instance, which he knew from his own experience. In that borough there was a constituency of from 1,000 to 1,200 voters, he would say 1,150, of which about one half were freemen or burgesses. Of this half one moiety would be immediately extinguished; that was about a quarter of the whole constituency, inasmuch as at least that number of the class in question were not rated to the poor rate or in the payment of local taxation. In about twenty years the entire six hundred would become extinct; inasmuch as by the Clause in debate there was no power of keeping them up permitted. Thus the town of Colchester would have a constituency of only 600, in place of nearly double that number. In other boroughs, where the population was less, and the elective fran-
 1081 1082 l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Baines  thought it would be improper to mix Borough-rates and Poor-rates together, because different townships were under different regulations.
 Mr. Grote  called attention to the case of the interruption occurring during the first three years—the period in which it was most likely to take place. That did not seem to be provided for by the Clause.
 Mr. Robinson  rose amidst loud cries of "Divide, divide!" He was the representative of a large body of those freemen whose interests were attempted to be invaded by this Bill in a manner to which he felt himself bound to offer the most decided opposition. He ventured to assert, that the noble Lord at the head of his Majesty's Government would not dare
 1102
 Mr. Robinson  understood the object of the Bill perfectly well. He was not complaining that existing freemen would be deprived of the right of voting for Members of Parliament; but what he complained of was, that the descendants of those freemen having  inchoate 1103 l.
 Mr. Winthrop Praed  said, that although in fact this Amendment upon which the Committee were about to divide, was precisely similar to one of which he had given notice, he had not yet addressed to the House one single observation in reference to it. He did not then mean to trespass upon the patience of the House, and he should only claim the privilege of asking the noble Lord one question. The House would bear hardly upon him if this privilege were denied him, considering that on the Amendment which he first introduced into the Committee on the preceding night he had hitherto been prevented from speaking. The hon. Member for Derbyshire (Mr. Gisborne) was in a great measure the cause of this, as he had held out a threat that upon his Amendment he should ground a Motion relative to the freemen in Yarmouth. The question which he wished to put was, whether the names of the freemen whose rights it was proposed to continue, so far as regarded the election of Members of Parliament, were to be entered in the burgess roll, or in a separate list?
 Mr. Winthrop Praed  suggested, that in that case the same machinery which was used with respect to the existing freemen might be applied to more remote rights.
 Mr. Winthrop Praed  would put it to his hon. Friend whether he could hope for a reversal of the decision to which the Committee had already come?
 Mr. Winthrop Praed  felt it necessary to give a further explanation, as the hon. Member had not stated the whole of the circumstance. The hon. Member did announce to him that he intended to make a statement respecting the Yarmouth election, but when he presented his petition he postponed his statement till the House went into Committee. Finding that his hon. Friend, the Member for Exeter, had on the notice paper a Motion precisely the same as his he gave him precedence, and he fully expected that the hon. Member for Derbyshire would afterwards make his statement. He never conceived that the hon. Member was waiting for him personally; it was he Mr. Praed, undoubtedly, who was the waiting party.
 Mr. Praed  rose to order. He begged that the Chairman would state what question was before the House.
 Mr. John Fielden  considered the interests of his constituents so much interested in the Clause, that he must do his duty to them, by offering some observations on the injustice of the Clause. It would be in the recollection of hon. Gentlemen, that when the Reform Bill was first introduced to discussion, a Motion was brought forward which had for its object the perpetuation of the rights of the freemen. The Motion was opposed by the Government of the day, but he was happy to say that they agreed ultimately to retain the burgesses, and recognize their claims; for, shortly after, they brought in the second Reform Bill, in which a Clause was introduced, which had for its object the preservation of the rights of the freemen. It appeared to him, that the Clause before them went to destroy the rights which were secured to them by the Reform Bill, and the tenth Clause destroyed the rights of property. He would not detain the Committee by attempting to renew the argument advanced in favour of the freemen, but he wished to call their attention to a particular case, of those who, subsequent to the passing of the Bill, had entered into servitude, and became freed, having paid a consideration, in order that they might enjoy the privileges which were secured to them by the Reform Bill. There were many privileges pertaining to them in different places:—he would mention one where they had partaken of great tracts of land of 205 acres, granted to the poor freemen: that was a most important right.
 Mr. Brotherton  thought it desirable to allow some means of re-admission.
 Mr. Brotherton  corroborated the statement of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester as to the satisfaction which the Act for the regulation of the borough of Salford afforded the inhabitants. The Manchester Act, though the town contained 140,000 inhabitants, gave only 2,400 electors in the first year, and he believed that at the present moment the number did not much exceed 3,000. When the Salford Bill was brought forward, with a view to avoid the heart-burnings which prevailed in Manchester, a provision was inserted giving the right to vote to every rate-payer. He must confess he agreed with the right hon. Baronet as to the propriety of those persons contributing to the rate who imposed it.
 Mr. Brotherton  said, that this construction was very injurious to the electors. In the borough of Salford more than 200 persons, whose rates had been raised and subsequently reduced by the overseers,
 1056
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart,  rose to ask a question of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, on a subject of very great importance. In consequence of what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, on a former night, relative to equalizing the duty on Coffee, the greatest panic had seized the market, and he (Mr. P. M. Stewart) was, therefore, anxious to know—First, When it was proposed that the new scale of duties should come into operation? Second,—Whether it was intended that the stock of coffee on hand should be allowed to pay the reduced duty? Third,—In what manner he proposed to guard the British Colonists in the East and West, from the introduction of
 1054
 Mr. Estcourt  said, that a parish might be partly within and partly without a borough, and care ought to be taken that only those premises that were within the borough should be liable to the Borough-rate.
 Mr. Gisborne  rose to explain the circumstances upon which the hon. Member for Yarmouth (Mr. Praed) had referred. A petition from Yarmouth having been put into his hands for presentation, he, according to the rules of courtesy, informed the hon. Member of his intention to present it, and at the same time to make a statement in reference to certain transactions in the late elections for that
 1109 Praed:
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, that at that late hour, and after so lengthened a discussion on this Clause, he might not have troubled the Committee but for some observations of the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard (Mr. C. Buller) upon the freemen of the city which he had had the honour of representing in that House for four succeeding Parliaments. But he conceived he should be altogether unworthy of the honourable station in which his constituents had placed him, if he omitted to declare that the attack of the hon. and learned Gentleman was altogether unjustifiable; and that, returned to that House as he (Mr. Hughes Hughes) was at the last election by a number of votes considerably greater than ever before polled for a candidate at any election of Members for Oxford, he was also returned at a less expense than any former Representative of that city after a contested election. The freemen of Oxford were entitled in themselves, and to hand down unimpaired to their posterity, many valuable privileges; among others, he might mention rights of Common and pasture upon a track of land adjoining the city, 476 acres in extent, upon which the poorer class of freemen were in the habit of grazing cattle—rights of fishing of considerable advantage—freedom from toll throughout all England—and a variety of charitable bequests, to be distributed by way of gift or loan in favour of freemen, their children, and widows, to some of which he had already that evening taken occasion to allude. Now, of all these, after a hard and successful struggle for their preservation, in which he (Mr. Hughes Hughes) took an active part during the discussions under the Reform Bill, together with the still more valuable privilege of the elective franchise, considered to have been perpetuated by it, this iniquitous clause sought to deprive all but the present holders, and that, too, without establishing any charge whatever of corruption against them. The noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, had indeed told the House, that when the evidence taken before the Ipswich Election Committee should be laid upon the Table (and it was promised to-morrow) that such an exposure of bribery and corruption, on the part of freemen, would be made as fully to justify their disfranchisement, or at any rate the extinction of that class of voters for the future; and the hon. and learned
 1120 l.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, he was anxious, before this Clause passed the Committee, to ask a question of the hon. and learned Attorney-General. He held in his hand a list of twenty-two charitable bequests for the benefit of freemen of the city he had the honour to represent, many of which were in the nature of loans for the advancement of young freemen in the world; as, for instance, 500 l. l.
 Sir James Graham  would not detain the House one moment longer than was positively necessary; but, as his noble Friend had alluded so pointedly and personally to him, it was absolutely incumbent on him to say a few words. His noble Friend had rather insinuated that his advice would not be very agreeable to him (Sir James Graham). He could not return the compliment. He was, at all times, not only anxious to receive advice from his noble Friend, but he had been so long associated with him, and he esteemed him so sincerely, that even reproof from his noble Friend would never be received unkindly by him. His noble Friend said, he had observed, with surprise, his recent conduct, and the view which he had taken of public affairs since the passing of the Reform Bill. He thought his noble Friend would do him justice, when he said that, to the best of his ability, no colleague who sat by his side on the Treasury Bench during that eventful
 1099 1100
 Sir James Graham  addressed the Com-
 1090 en masse. 1091 1092
 Mr. Hogg  suggested that all the words after "parochial relief" should be omitted. He stated, that as the Clause now stood, freemen taking under specific bequests would be disfranchised. That he was sure could not have been the intention of the noble Lord. He said, that in the borough which he had the honour to represent, and he believed in many others, there were charitable bequests vested in the corporation as trustees, where the funds were distributed among freemen exclusively, under the will of a testator. He admitted the expediency of excluding paupers receiving parochial relief, but trusted that the noble Lord would see the propriety of limiting the Clause accordingly, and of not inserting such words as would deprive of their political rights parties taking not as paupers, but as specific legatees.
 The Attorney-General  said, that if he could have a little conversation with his noble Friend, he should either convince him that the alteration was unnecessary, or agree to have it introduced.
 The Attorney-General  said, that the object of the Clause was merely to meet the  bona fide
 The Attorney-General  said, that he felt it his duty to oppose the Amendment of his learned and hon. friend, as, in his opinion, it would, if adopted, tend very much to defeat the great object of the Bill. He would contend that the existence of freemen in Corporations, as distinct from residence or occupation, was an usurpation, that the system as it now stood was a curse to the country, and the sooner they were got rid of the better. If there were any peculiar cases where estates had been devised for any particular purposes it would be easy to think of a proviso; but until these purposes were distinctly proved he thought there should be no interference. He would ask the Committee, what would be the effect of the Amendment of his hon. and learned Friend if it were carried? It would be to perpetuate the present race of freemen for ever—in  secula seculorum 1077 quo warranto 1078 1079 1080
 The Attorney-General  interrupted the hon. and learned Gentleman by saying, that that suggestion would be adopted.
 The Attorney-General  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to alter the law with respect to the Ecclesiastical Courts.
 The Attorney-General  remarked that the Bill had been recommended by a Commission, of which the Ecclesiastical Judges were members, and, therefore, it could not be considered a measure of a party.
 The Attorney-General  conceived not.
 Mr. Jervis  said, that the effect of altering the Clause would be to deprive any person who, from some technical informality, had been omitted from the burgess-roll, of the means of re-admission, except by passing again through three years, although he had been still a continuous occupier and rate-payer.
 Mr. Jervis  said, the proposition of the hon. Gentleman would give to trustees not belonging to the town the power of influencing elections, which was denied to the trustees who did belong to the town.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the House would recollect that at the close of the debate last night he had expressed his opinion that there should be another qualification as the test of the right to vote besides that provided by the Bill. The purport of his proposition was, that in all cases where a borough-rate should be made by the council appointed under the Bill, payment of that borough-rate should be required equally with the payment of the poor-rate, and thus the qualification would rest on a sound basis. He had heard no valid objection made to that proposition. It probably would operate in a slight degree in diminishing the number of electors, but the House was about to make an immense experiment, which he sincerely hoped might be successful—a most momentous experiment with respect to the good government of towns; and it was of the highest importance that the greatest circumspection should be employed. He would take the case of the town of Manchester, which was under the control of a body appointed by a local Act. The Commissioners were obliged to possess a very high qualification, and the electing body were subject to a very severe test. No person had a vote unless he was rated at 16 l., l., 1057 l. 1058 s. d., 1059
 Sir Robert Peel  remarked, that there was a slight variation between the words respecting the payment of rates in this Clause and the corresponding Clause in the Reform Bill. Here the words were, "shall have been made or become due," but in the Reform Bill the words were "become payable," unless he was mistaken. Now, a particular construction had been put upon these words by the revising Barristers, and he thought that in a matter which was precisely the same the words ought to be the same, particularly as a judicial construction had been put upon them.
 Sir Robert Peel  suggested that the time for payment of the rates should be fixed a few days previously to the last day of August. In the Amendment which he had intended to propose, he meant to have proposed the 20th of August, but the exact time was not material; but he would put it to the noble Lord, whether four or five days at least, previously to the day to which the overseer was bound to make up the list, should not be allotted to the overseer for the performance of this duty. It was a matter of no importance to him, but if some time were not allowed him, a host of people would be pouring in to pay their rates on the last day allowed by the act, and he ought to have a few days to prepare the list.
 Sir Robert Peel  wished to put a question to the noble Lord upon the operation of Clause six as it had been altered. The effect of that alteration was, as he understood it, that the overseers, in making out the list of those who should be entitled to vote, should only insert the names of those who should have paid their rates at the time of the overseers making out such list. Now, he thought this was very fair, because it was in exact conformity with the Reform Bill, and because it would simplify the registration, and put a check upon the
 1055
 Sir Samuel Whalley  trusted that the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) would not agree to any amendment of the kind.
 Sir William Follett  said, that the addition of a few words stating the necessity of paying up arrears of rates, would much improve the Clause. The noble Lord, (Lord Stanley) had made a suggestion in reference to persons coming into the occupancy of premises through the acquisition of property by will or inheritance—
 Sir William Follett  observed, that in rising to move an Amendment of the Clause then submitted to the House, he wished to be understood as offering no opposition to the general principles involved in the Bill, and as desiring no alterations which could impair its efficacy, nor would he in that Committee resist the adoption of any of the details of the measure which would have the effect of improving our corporations, or adapting and moulding them to the altered circumstances of the times. He would offer no opposition to any detail of the Bill, which if agreed to, would have the effect of furthering or securing the object which the Bill in its preamble professed, namely, "To render corporations better and more efficient instruments of local government." The House, however, was now called on to consider a Clause which had no reference whatever to the principles involved in the Bill. It was a Clause which had no relation to the improvement of the municipal government of corporate towns—one of the details of the measure which had not the slightest connexion with the principles, the establishment of which the Bill was said to have in view. The Clause professed to have two objects to accomplish; and he was not quite sure whether it did not include a third, which was not quite so apparent. He apprehended that it was the intention of those who brought forward this measure, that the ninth Clause as it at present stood, should have the effect of destroying the legal rights of freemen, particularly as regarded apprentices, and abolishing their privilege of voting for Members of Parliament. He supposed that another effect of it would be to extinguish the inchoate rights of freemen—the rights of property, and the various privileges to which they were entitled; and he was not quite satisfied whether the Clause would not have the further effect of preventing all existing freemen from voting for Members of Parliament. Now, if he were wrong in attributing the last effect to this provision of the Bill, he hoped that even though his amendment were lost, the noble Lord would take care and secure beyond doubt the right of existing freemen to have a share in the choice of Members of that House. [Lord  John Russell 1070 Attorney-General: 1071 1072 l. l. l. 1073 1074 1075 1076
 The Solicitor-General  contended that it would be impossible—not merely difficult, but impossible—that any good or any tolerable system could go on if the Amendment proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Exeter were adopted. He would call on his hon. and learned Friend to say what would be the constitution of corporations in a few years if his Amendment should pass? The Members of them would consist of two classes—one
 1083 1084
 Sir William Follett  said, the hon. Member would excuse him if he interrupted him. The hon. Member had said, that he (Sir W. Follett) had got himself into a scrape by naming Sir Thomas White's charity; but he doubted whether the hon. 1089 l.
 Sir William Follett  expressed his readiness to acquiesce in the suggestion made by his right hon. Friend (Sir James Graham). Therefore, with the permission of the Committee, he would withdraw the amendment in the terms in which it then stood, for the purpose of introducing another amendment, embodying his right hon. Friend's suggestion.
 Mr. Hutt  knew cases in which respectable persons, in good circumstances, received small amounts from what might be called charitable funds; some became entitled to these sums because they were freemen. He was of opinion that the right of voting ought to be reserved to such persons.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  rose to call the attention of the House to the whole Clause. He did not hesitate to say, that a more unjust Clause had never been inserted in any measure of legislation. At one fell swoop, a sentence of condemnation, the most unjust and most unfounded that it was well possible to conceive, was passed against an unoffending body of men. He would ask upon what grounds of common sense, or upon what principle of justice, were a body of men such as the freemen of England, to be excluded from those rights which they had enjoyed from time immemorial? They had yet to learn that they had ever disgraced their freedom. He was well aware that it was much the fashion among Gentlemen on the other side to point at the freemen as a very "corrupt" body of men. "Oh!" exclaimed the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, "the freemen! what a set they are." But, though, if he were asked the question whether there were to be found, among an extensive body, such as the freemen, some who were open to bribery and corruption, he should, of course, not attempt to deny that such was the case; he would ask, however, were those corrupt practices, and was that bribery, confined to that body? Was there not, in the lanes and alleys of London, and other places there to be found, as much bribery, intimidation, and corruption, as in any corporation? He certainly, in the name of common sense, and common justice, protested against the insertion of such a Clause as that now under consideration. He should not feel that he was doing his duty towards a very numerous body of men whom he had the honour of representing in that House, if he did not do his utmost
 1067 1068
 Mr. Trevor  withdrew his Motion; he would repeat it upon the bringing up of the Report.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  expressed his disgust at the foul charges which had been made against a body of men, who were condemned without a hearing.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor,  amidst loud manifestations of impatience, rose to address the House. He could not help thinking that the decision which the Committee
 1117 Loud Cheers from the Ministerial side. Uproar, and cries of "Adjourn," "Spoke." "Oh, oh!" and great interruption. 1118 Uproar. Great confusion.
 Viscount Howick  thought that he could show his noble Friend that the Bill as it stood guarded against the inconvenience which he apprehended. The objection was, he understood, taken to the admission of a man who one year refused or neglected to pay his rates, but who the next year should pay them without paying the arrear of the intermediate period. The Clause said, that "he shall be entitled to claim as hereinafter provided, and, upon such claim, again to be enrolled a burgess and member of the said body corporate, provided that on the last-mentioned last day of August, he shall be otherwise qualified as herein provided, except in respect of the length of his continuous inhabitancy and occupation as aforesaid." In the sixth Clause one of these qualifications, the possession of which was stated in the eighth as necessary to re-admission, was declared to be the payment of all rates. It was there distinctly stated, that "no person shall be enrolled in any year unless he shall have been rated in respect of such premises so occupied by him, &c. or unless he shall have paid, during the time of his occupation as aforesaid, all such rates due from him in respect of the said premises, except such as shall have been made or become due within six calendar months next before the said last day of August." It was, therefore, quite clear that no person would be entitled to vote until he had paid all rates due from him.
 Lord Sandon  defended the rights of the freemen, and contended that they were not the poor, wretched, degraded, demoralized set of beings which the hon. and earned Attorney-General had described them, nor were they persons whose rights he same learned authority had asserted to be a usurpation. He should like to know how that could be called a usurpation, the origin of which no lawyer could race. The Attorney-General had said, hat freemen were a class of voters who lad been constantly guilty of corrupt
 1101
 Mr. Thomas Attewood  supported the prayer of the petition. He agreed in everything which had fallen from his colleague and could testify from personal knowledge that many of the petitioners were most respectable men.
 Lord Grimston  then said, he had a petition to present from the inhabitants of Great Berkhamstead, Hertfordshire, praying for the interference of the House in a case of great abuse. In the reign of Henry 8th, a grammar-school was founded at Berkhampstead, for the training of 144 children in "all useful learning," and endowed with revenues which now amounted to not less than 6001. l.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that it gave him infinite pain to add his testimony to the fact, that very gross abuse had been committed in this case, and he regretted it the more, since the person of whose misconduct there was but too much reason to complain belonged to a body which he held in the highest respect. It was beyond a doubt that the misconduct of Dr. Dupre had wholly destroyed the great benefits which would otherwise have been derived from this charity. He did not, however, conceive that the object of the petitioners would be attained by having this petition referred to the Committee suggested by the noble Lord, nor did he think such reference consistent with the forms of the House. The case in question not having been investigated by the Commissioners, there was no evidence to lay before the Committee, which, consequently, was not competent to make any report on the subject. The best plan would be to lay the petition on the Table, and then take into consideration the propriety of making some legislative provision by which a due execution of the powers given to the trustees should be enforced.
 Lord Grimston , in answer to a question, said, there was a visitor to the school, but that he had no power over the trustees. The noble Lord added, that in compliance with the suggestion of his hon. Friend, he should move that the petition do lie on the Table.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that he had directed a reference to be made, first to ascertain the facts since the year 1825; and next to discover the peculiar circumstances that had occasioned the irregularity, An account had, therefore, been
 1133 l.
 Colonel Evans  was ready to repeat the belief which he had formerly expressed, that the Duke of Wellington had fulfilled his duty in reference to the Quadripartite Treaty, however much what had fallen from the noble Lord opposite (Lord Mahon) might seem to imply that he had not. The noble Lord had made some observations in reference to himself and those who were about to embark in the expedition which was to be placed under his command; and the noble Lord had, among other things, spoken of them as men who were ready to call themselves Englishmen one day, and Portuguese or Spaniards the next. He should wish to ask the noble Lord, whether he noble Lord had meant to imply anything disrespectful in the observations he had made, and whether the noble Lord meant to include him amongst those whom he had described as mercenaries.
 Colonel Evans  said, the noble Lord had talked of evasive policy, but his answer was evasive. The noble Lord had said, that he meant no disrespect to him personally, was it to the men or to the officers that he meant to apply the language the noble Lord had used? The noble Lord was involved in a series of contradictions and evasions throughout his speech, both with reference to persons and things. The noble Lord might disclaim any intention of conveying disrespect to himself personally; but if he meant to apply disrespect to those who would serve with him, he (Colonel Evans) must say that he should, on their part, treat any such intimation of disrespect towards them with all the disgust and contempt which he should conceive it to merit if applied to himself.
 Colonel Evans  had spoken hypothetically and had merely said, that "if" the noble Lord had made such an intimation, he should entertain those feelings; he did not at that moment know whether the noble Lord had or had not, for in some parts of his speech he had said things which he had counter-said in others, and therefore he (Colonel Evans) did conceive that he might be allowed to put the hypothetical case, and might say that if the noble Lord meant to throw out expressions of disrespect, he (Colonel Evans) would return them to him with perfect contempt and disgust. Whether the case was to apply to the noble Lord or not, he could not tell, because he did not know whether the noble Lord meant or not to apply the expressions. The noble Lord had spoken of  condolliéri; condottiéri 1152 1153
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he rose to notice what he considered an omission on the part of the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, and regretted that this subject had not been alluded to by the noble Lord, at least alluded to in such a way as to lead to the hope of a satisfactory conclusion; he meant the interference of the British Government for the settlement of the dispute between the Spanish Government and the Biscayans relative to the privileges which they had long enjoyed. He trusted that the Government of this country would use its influence with the Government of Spain, and point out the interest which the Spanish Government had in acceding to the wishes of the inhabitants of the northern provinces. He was sorry that
 1168 de jure de facto. 1169 1170
 Mr. Grove Price  believed that Zumalacarreguy was the first to wish to terminate the sanguinary practice to which the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had adverted; but when he proposed to Mina an exchange of prisoners the answer was that he had no prisoners to exchange for that he had shot them all. Something had fallen in the early part of the debate which had given great pain to himself personally, and he had no doubt the House at large. Something like a misunderstanding had arisen between his noble Friend (Lord Mahon) and the gallant officer the Member for Westminster, in consequence of the application of a particular term to troops employed for pay to serve in a foreign country. The subject was a painful one to discuss in the presence of a Gentleman who appeared in the double capacity of a Member of that House and the commander of such a force. However unwilling he might be to offer one word that could be offensive personally to the gallant Officer, the gallant Officer must still give him leave and licence to animadvert, as a public man, as strongly as he chose, keeping always within the rules of order laid down by the House, upon any measure that might be brought before it, more especially when it related to so important a matter as the enrollment of British troops for purposes so ambiguous as those alleged in the present instance. He admitted, and admitted frankly, to the gallant Officer, that he believed no sordid idea of pay, no idle motive of fresh distinction, induced him to draw his sword in the cause of the Queen of Spain, He believed he was solely actuated by a gallant but mistaken enthusiasm. He did not apply to the gallant Officer the harsh term of "mercenary" or leader of  condottiéri,  1171 quasi 1172 1173
 Mr. O'Connell : I feel bound to declare, on behalf of the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster, that the expressions he used appeared to me in the first instance to be quite hypothetical.
 An hon. Member  on the Opposition side of the House was understood to say that his impression of the language of the gallant Member for Westminster was the reverse of that stated by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin.
 Colonel Evans : The House will clearly see that in the terms used by the noble Lord, although he has completely exonerated me from any dishonourable motive, and has, indeed paid me some compliments, yet from some confusion of expression I was led to apprehend that he imputed dishonourable motives to the officers with whom I am associated. Under that impression I made use of the expressions I did. If dishonourable motives were imputed to those officers I could not understand the distinction which freed me from them, when any thing applying to them must apply to me in a degree so much stronger. And at all events I was bound to repudiate any disrespect to my companions in arms. But now, understanding from the noble Lord and others that no improper or dishonourable motives were attributed by him to myself or the officers serving with me,. I have no hesitation in saying that I did not wish to injure the feelings of the noble Lord.
 Colonel Evans : Undoubtedly, understanding the noble Lord does not intend to impute dishonourable or improper motives to myself or those with whom I am associated, I am willing to have my explanations so taken.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  interposed and remarked, that all such inquiries would come regularly in Committee, and it was inconvenient to discuss them now.
 Mr. Goulburn  suggested, that some further alteration was wanted in this Clause. The circumstances of the different boroughs were so various, that there must be various modes devised for dealing with them. In. some boroughs there were persons connected with them who were neither freemen, nor burgesses, nor inhabitants. For instance, at Morpeth there were certain persons called free brothers, who were neither freemen, nor burgesses, nor inhabitants of the town. They formed, however, a class out of which the burgesses were elected. They were entitled to the benefit of pasturage on certain lands, a privilege which was considered to be worth 9 l.
 Mr. O'Connell : In order to establish the principle, there should be facts to substantiate it. He did not see a word in the Bill that tended to take away the rights of inheritance. The hon. Member should bring forward his facts, and place them in the hands of the House.
 Mr. O'Connell : Only as to lands.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  wished to know how corporate property, after the rights of the present holder had ceased, was to be disposed of?
 Mr. Blackburne  thought the Clause as it now stood, without any Amendment, was one better able to be supported upon principle than any Amendment that could be suggested. But if they were to have an Amendment, then he perfectly agreed with the right hon. Baronet that his suggestion was the next best principle. He could not understand why upon principle he ought to consider the inchoate right of an apprentice before the right of any other person whatsoever; for although it might be said that a person on entering into apprenticeship paid a certain sum of money for that purpose, and therefore expected all the advantages which the law gave to him, so also might it be said of the man who purchased his freedom; and the House was aware that there were a great number of cases in which the freedom was purchased. Certainly the inevitable consequence of this Bill must be some interference with property that appeared, at least, if it did not really belong to the persons who were now in possession of it; therefore it was necessary to take care to act upon some sound principle; and he thought it would be a sound principle not to attend to inchoate rights at all, but merely to preserve the rights of those who are now in possession. If, however, Parliament should attend to inchoate rights, he thought the proposition of the right hon. Baronet was the one that came the nearest to the principle of the Clause proposed by the noble Lord.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  quite concurred with the right hon. Baronet, that it was expedient that the House should deal with this part of the subject upon an intelligible and plain principle. He wished to call the attention of the House to the distinction that he conceived to exist between the right of property acquired in these boroughs by means of servitude, and the right acquired by birth. He agreed with the right hon. Baronet that the great object in view was to make this corporate property available in the shortest possible period to the interests of the community at large. He would confine his arguments on the present occasion to the cases of right by birth and right by servitude. The right of servitude arose from contracts entered into either by the individual himself, or by some person on his behalf, frequently in consideration of the payment of a sum of money, in exchange for which he expected to derive certain pecuniary advantages. In the case of a right acquired by birth, none of these considerations arose; there was no contract whatsoever; there was no payment of a fine upon the indentures; there were, in short, none of the elements which peculiarly belonged to the case of servitude. Gentlemen must consider, that if they affirmed the question which had been raised relative to the right by birth, they would postpone—he would not say indefinitely, but for a very long period indeed—the attainment of that ultimate object which the right hon. Baronet opposite, in common with himself, considered they all had in view—namely, the realization of these funds for the common interest. There was no contract in that case; there was no pecuniary consideration; there was only the right which had accrued under the existing state of things, which, after all was a corporate right; which, after all, according to the statement of the right hon. Gentleman himself, was a question of usage, grafted on the original establishment of these Corporations. His object had been to show the great distinction which existed between the right by servitude and the right by birth, and he trusted he had succeeded.
 Mr. Goulburn  understood the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to have argued, that the present was a mere question of property, and should, therefors, be considered apart from the considerations which might otherwise have been involved in its discussion. He contended that the principle laid down by the
 1189
 Mr. Blackburne  said, he for one did not maintain that there was no difference between the cases, where a purchase was
 1194
 Lord John Russell  would state, in a very few words, the ground on which he anticipated very great danger and difficulty from drawing the line proposed by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. The hon. Gentleman had said—and he said, no doubt, with perfect truth—that the father of a family would frequently pay a very large sum for his freedom, because he knew his children would have the benefit of being the sons of a freeman; and because, in the event of his having eight or nine sons, it would be extremely convenient to him to avail himself of the corporate funds in their education. Let the House consider the effect of the Amendment now proposed: a person who had purchased his freedom three years ago, having then two sons, would have paid a large sum for their education, and they would be entitled to the benefit of the schools to which the hon. Gentleman had referred, but the other seven sons he might have afterwards, would be altogether excluded from them. The adoption of the Clause, then, would be productive of the great hardship, that a man who had paid a valuable consideration for the purpose of obtaining an education for his sons, would not obtain the benefit for securing which he had expended his money. The principle now sought to be adopted had been laid down in the first Reform Bill, and it had been met with the very objection he had just stated.
 Lord John Russell  said, it appeared to him that the true ground on which this Clause ought to be debated was to be found in the principle laid down by the right hon. Member for Tamworth, who stated that he believed the application of common lands and other property to the use and advantage of individuals was not consistent with their original purpose, but had occurred in consequence of usages that gradually became established, certainly not for the benefit of the community, and that the only question for the House to consider was, at what time such usages could be abolished consistently with the interests of the parties concerned. Going that on principle, he found a great deal of what had been said as to the rights of property to be in fact entirely beside this question. If corporate property were to be considered in the same light as hereditary property, it would be necessary not only to preserve it to existing freemen and their sons, but to all their future descendants; but this was wholly inconsistent with the principle of the present Bill. However, he apprehended he might put this assumption out of the question. The hon. and learned Member's was a different proposition, and did not rest on hereditary rights, but on rights now actually existing. He thought, however, that there was a great distinction (though the hon. and learned Member did not seem to perceive it) between rights acquired by apprenticeship and by birth; the one might have been purchased, the other was accidental, and in the latter case, although an individual might he entitled by law to certain privileges on attaining the age of twenty-one, no one could say that his occupation or course of life had been adopted in consequence or contemplation of those rights. At the same time, he thought that there was a great deal of reason in the argument, that you might easily draw a line, by admitting rights now existing in reference to servitude or birth; and his main reason for objecting to such a principle consisted in an apprehension of the danger of being drawn on from one step to another to the admission of more than could be
 1200
 Lord John Russell  observed, that if he was right in his construction of the hon. and learned Member's meaning, the hon. Gentleman intended to propose an amendment which should maintain the rights only of persons now alive.—[ Sir W. Follett assented.
 Lord John Russell  said, that all persons now entitled to any corporate rights would continue to enjoy them; but that as soon as the interests of those persons ceased,
 1186
 Lord John Russell  would be glad if the hon. Member would give his notice.
 Lord John Russell  thought that his Amendment would meet all cases; but if it were necessary, he would endeavour to extend it so as to meet the case which the right hon. Gentleman had put to him.
 Lord John Russell  said, that it would be better for him to state at once all the Amendments which he had to propose to this Clause, and they were only two—one was, to insert after the words "freeman, burgess," &c, in line eight, the words "or inhabitant." This was intended to preserve to the inhabitants the rights which they enjoyed by inhabitancy. In line nine he intended to insert the words proposed by the hon. Member for Somersetshire, "or under indentures of apprenticeship in some borough." He did not intend to propose the insertion of them in line twelve,
 1182
 Lord John Russell : The Clause did not relate to what the hon. Member referred. It was not yet decided how property by inheritance could be dealt with, or whether it should be treated like the common case of the rights of burgesses to certain lands. He would take some further time to consider the question.
 Lord John Russell  stated, that he was prepared to agree to the Amendment of which the hon. Member for East Somerset-shire (Mr. W. Miles) had given notice, reserving to all persons now serving under Indentures of Apprenticeship in any borough their pecuniary rights and privileges as freemen, on completing their apprenticeship.
 Major Beauclerk : It is clear that the misunderstanding has been mutual; and after the explanations which have been given I should hope that the noble Lord will have no objection to state himself satisfied.
 Major Fancourt : As there appears to be great doubt whether the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster did or did not put an hypothetical case, perhaps he will be good enough to say how the fact is.
 Colonel Perceval  wished to put the question to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, of which he had given the right hon. Gentleman notice yesterday. It related to the unusual time Exchequer Bills had been very recently kept at the office. They had been sent in for exchange on the 11th of June, and had not been delivered until yesterday, being, therefore, a detention of twelve days. He was informed that this was about three times the period for which they were ordinarily kept. It might occasion great inconvenience to parties who wished to raise money for temporary purposes, and he had been told that, had the detention occurred for twelve days prior to the 11th of June, the consequences might have been most disastrous to the monied interest. He hoped that such a circumstance would not be allowed to occur again.
 Colonel Leith Hay : Whether the hon. and gallant Member put the case hypothetically or not is rendered, by what followed, of little consequence; for the noble Lord stated that he had not the slightest intention of saying anything personally offensive. Then the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster stated what he meant to say, and what I believe he said in a manner perfectly hypothetical. Such being the state of the facts, I do not think it more than what the House has a right to expect
 1180
 Colonel Sibthorp  was not inclined to consider these Amendments of the noble Lord as satisfactory. They were merely proposed to induce the Committee to swallow this bitter pill more readily. He complained that every day the noble Lord came down to the House with some Amendment, either verbal or in print; but if in print, with so few copies of the print that not more than two or three Members had an opportunity of seeing it. He denounced this as a most unconstitutional practice. It only showed how absurd it was for the Government to introduce Bills, of which they had not thoroughly considered the details. He agreed with the hon. Member for Oxford, that there was no reason for depriving the sons of freemen of the rights which were continued to the apprentices. He had the honour of being himself a freeman, and he was proud of having received that honour from his revered father, who, he knew, was proud of having transmitted it to him. He should also be proud to transmit the same honour to those who came after him. He condemned the noble Lord for the fickleness of purpose which he had displayed in departing from the solemn compact which he had made with the country in passing the Reform Bill. What could we expect after it? That we should be told, at some day not very distant, that our estates should be confiscated, because the noble Lord willed it, and that they should be given to a multitude of banditti who were all ready to take them. He protested against that. He hoped that the noble Lord would recollect how he had lately been kicked out of Devon, and how many sweet promises he had been obliged to make to gain the sweet voices of the tenpounders at Stroud. These things could not last long. The noble Lord would find that the man who praised him to-day, for making such promises would hunt him down to-morrow if he did not make pro-
 1184
 Colonel Sibthorp  expressed it as his opinion that the Bill would take away heritable rights.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  agreed with the right hon. Baronet (Sir E. Peel) that where money was left for particular purposes the right should be reserved. But where funds were left for the benefit of all it was unjust they should be monopolized by individuals. He was not surprised that the hon. Member for Oxford, who said there should be no diversion of any fund from the parties who now enjoyed it to any other purpose, should vote for the Amendment. But he was surprised that those who thought funds were now appropriated to purposes different from the original intention should vote for it. There was no extent to which the Amendment might not be carried. If inchoate rights by marriage or apprenticeship were allowed, it would apply to children yet unborn. If the Committee adopted that line, there would be no end to the consequences. He would draw another line; but he differed from the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) where the line should end. If they drew the line where an apprentice gave a pecuniary consideration, or made a contract, though no money was given, they would act fairly to the parties, without injuring the community. The hon. Member for Worcester said he did not wish to continue exclusion from tolls. [Mr.  Robinson secula seculorum. l. 1195
 Mr. Maclean  begged to put a not improbable case, of which he thought the Committee should not lose sight in coming to a decision upon this point. A man in the expectation of a family, frequently purchased his own freedom with the view of making his son a freeman; whereas, if he wished him to obtain his freedom by apprenticeship, he paid for his indentures. In the first case he obtained no benefit whatever for himself, but expended a sum of money to procure certain privileges for his son. There were many charities for the education of the sons of freemen, and
 1190
 Mr. Maclean  saw no analogy between the two cases referred to by the hon. Member for Mary-la-bonne (Mr. H. Bulwer) namely, the return from Elba, and the furnishing of auxiliary troops by Elizabeth; he saw no analogy between these two cases and the case now under consideration. —[ Cries of "Question!"
 Mr. Edward L. Bulwer : I would beg to suggest that my noble Friend, if he will allow me so to call him, did say that he did not mean anything personally offensive to my hon. and gallant Friend. I am certain that it could not have been the noble Lord's intention to say anything personally offensive, and everybody who knows him must have the same conviction. Such being the case, and my hon. and gallant Friend having stated that his words applied to another case than the actual one, I do not think the noble Lord will hesitate to declare himself satisfied [ renewed cries for "Lord Mahon
 Mr. Divett  was of opinion, that the system pursued by Corporations was but little calculated for the preservation of the right of property. On the contrary, its tendency was more calculated for the destruction of that right. Unless the Clause as it stood was agreed to, there would be twenty or thirty years more of the heart-burning which at present existed. The rights contended for were not generally rights for which a valuable consideration had been given, but privileges conferred by the favour of Corporations.
 Mr. Fitzstephen French : After the explanation that has been given by you, Sir, whatever doubt may have existed on the mind of the noble Lord, none can now exist [ cries for Lord Mahon.
 Mr. Shaw  was not prepared for the Motion of the hon. Member, but, on the understanding suggested by the noble Lord, was ready to assent to the second reading. In doing so, however, he was not to be considered as coinciding in the views upon the subject of education which the Bill embodied.
 Mr. Robinson  was of opinion that the inchoate rights of the freemen of all classes ought to be as tenderly dealt with by that House as the rights of the nobility themselves.
 Mr. Robinson  then moved the addition of the following words to the Amendment: "And also to the sons of freemen now born, who are at present entitled to their freedom in any city or borough."
 Mr. George F. Young  conceived, that in any case where the Question was between inconvenience on the one hand, and the subversion of the rights of property on the other, he could never hesitate on which side to give his vote. This Question involved the most sacred rights of property; and, to him, it appeared, that if he purchased an estate last year, and gave it for an equivalent in money, he had as good a right as, or better, to retain his estate, and transmit it, than had the Marquess of Tavistock to retain, and transmit his. He
 1197
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, I was not in the House when the noble Lord made use of the expressions which seem to have given offence to the hon. and gallant Officer. I therefore rise with some difficulty. I heard the expressions made use of by the gallant Officer in reply to my noble Friend, but as I did not hear the remark which gave rise to those expressions in reply, I stand in the position of one who has heard only one side of the question. But it appears to me from what I heard that the exposition which you, Sir, have made is so correct and so satisfactory, that there ought now to be no difficulty on either side in coming to a satisfactory arrangement. I hope whenever I rise in this House after any misunderstanding between two of its Members, I shall always do everything in my power to conciliate. I therefore repeat that after what has been said by the Speaker, I think my noble Friend ought to rise in his place, and state whether, under the circumstances which have been explained, he is satisfied with the explanation which has been made. But I am bound, at the same time, to say that sitting near my noble Friend at the time, that the discussion took place, I did collect from him that he was not satisfied, and I do think that under these circumstances the interposition of the Speaker has been absolutely necessary. I think I am
 1178 cries for Lord Mahon to rise
 The Speaker  felt it his duty to state, that what passed in the early part of the debate between the noble Lord and the gallant Member for Westminster had left, as he understood, an unsatisfactory impression on the mind of the noble Lord. He understood the noble Lord to have admitted, that while the motives of the gallant Officer and his associates were truly honourable, yet as a Member of Parliament, he could not approve the course they were pursuing, even though their motives were honourable. The gallant Officer, not having correctly understood the argument of the noble Lord, had repelled the imputation in strong language. After an explanation from the noble Lord, he put the case hypothetically, and although he reiterated his hypothetical case, it was merely for the purpose of vindicating himself from the charge of having been out of order, and not with any view of giving offence to the noble Lord. If the House concurred in the accuracy of this statement, he hoped that the noble Lord would feel satisfied, and that both parties would express their satisfaction, and thus put an end to all unpleasant feeling.
 The Speaker  said, the hon. and gallant officer was making use of strong language and he must be aware that such language was not consistent with the moderation and forbearance usually observed in the House.
 Mr. Fector  considered that he should compromise his dignity as a British senator, and his duty as a British subject, if he did not raise his voice against the course taken by the Government of the country on this important Question. He deeply regretted that any British Government or Administration should tarnish for a moment the laurels that had been so nobly acquired by a British army in the Peninsula, and that an army of mercenaries should now be sent out thither from this country under the auspices of His Majesty's Principal Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. He used the word "mercenary" without intending it at all offensively to the hon. and gallant Officer (Colonel Evans) who was to be the future Commander-in-chief of this force; but he called the force "mercenary" in the ordinary meaning of the term, as applying to a body of strangers fighting for hire in a country with which they had no connexion. He was quite ready to give to the gallant Officer full credit for honourable and gallant feeling, and for motives of bravery, for he understood the gallant Officer had already bled in the service of his country; yet, with all this, he could view him only as at the head of a body of mercenary troops, got together, it was said, to support the cause of liberality, but, as it appeared to him, they cared not so much for the cause as for the pay. They had no connexion with the country, and that cause could not justly be called liberal which opposed the rights of his Majesty Don Carlos of Spain, who was at the head of the legitimate Government. He would assert that the actual Government of the country was under the domination of an ambitious and unprincipled female. He had no hesitation in avowing his decided opinion as to the legitimate right of Don Carlos, as his
 1165
 Mr. Poulter : I thank the Government for not having permitted any law or restriction to prevent the gallant spirit and gallant affections of this country from giving their important and animating assistance to a just and righteous cause. I think we must either abandon the Quadruple Treaty, or do more in support of it than we have hitherto done. That Treaty begins by laying down, most distinctly, the great principle upon which it is based—that is, the complete pacification of the two constitutional kingdoms of the Peninsula. The Treaty having done this, seems to have left the precise course of proceeding, and the kind and degree of assistance to be afforded by the contracting parties, to future circumstances and future contingencies as they might arise. At the time of the execution of the Treaty the evil to be overcome was the position of Don Miguel and Don Carlos at the head of a military force in the kingdom
 1154 1155
 Mr. Wilks  expressed his high gratification at the anxiety thus manifested by men of all political opinions to put an end to this shameful abuse.
 Mr. Scholefield  presented a Petition from Birmingham, agreed to at a public meeting, and signed by not less than 12,900 persons in six days, without any persons going round to obtain signatures. The hon. Member, after stating that many more signatures would have been appended had there been time enough, and reading a letter from the High Bailiff in testimony of the immense number and respectability of the meeting, and the good order observed by them, proceeded to state the contents of the petition to the following effect. The petitioners complained.—"That Corporate funds had been squandered in exerting a sinister influence in the choice of Parliamentary representatives; and then requested that a searching reform into such corporate institutions might be adopted by the House. That they were impressed with a strong and
 1126
 Mr. Potter  said, he remembered the time, shortly after the riots, when in Birmingham any one who expressed himself in favour of the least liberality, whether in civil or religious matters, was sure to be scouted from every class of society. The petition now presented evinced that a gratifying and honourable change had taken place in popular feeling and intelligence.
 Mr. Sheil  said, that there was another right, that of marriage, which should be preserved if the rights by birth were preserved, as the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Exeter went to effect. Marriage with a freeman's daughter, especially in Bristol, gave the husband the rights of a freeman. The hon. Gentlemen opposite had got the inch, and they now wanted the ell. They had obtained rights by birthright, by servitude, and now they should, as a matter of course, preserve the rights of women.
 Mr. Alston  said, that the revenues of the charity were much nearer 800 l. l. l. 1128 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Estcourt  was anxious that the class of persons alluded to should have an opportunity of laying the facts of their several cases before the House. If they really did possess such facts, he should ask the Committee for a fair opportunity of stating them to it. He thought the Clause interfered with the rights alluded to, and at any rate they ought not to legislate until they had the facts of the cases of those persons before them.
 Mr. Estcourt  wished to know if the answer that had been made to his hon. Friend near him (Mr. Edward Peel, we suppose) applied to persons acquiring property, not only by apprenticeship but in other modes, by inheritance, for instance? To the borough of Malmesbury there belonged a large tract of land, to which the freemen had a right, though they had no elective right for Members of Parliament. They had possessed it for centuries by inheritance, and their progeny had the same rights to possess it as themselves. Would the Clause deprive them of those rights?
 Mr. Estcourt  was obliged to the noble Lord for his answer to the question, as he intended to give notice of an Amendment respecting the rights of freemen to certain landed property.
 Mr. Wyse  thought the best plan would be to send the Bill, on its being read a second time, to a Select Committee. If his Motion, however, were now agreed to, he would name a day for the Committee, and that would give time to consider what course it would be best to adopt with respect to it.
 Mr. Wyse  moved the second reading of the Bill for the education of the people of Ireland. After the large exposition he had already given of its principles, it would be unpardonable to trespass long on the attention of the House, especially when a subject of so much interest was about to come before it. He should reserve, for the next stage, the arguments by which he should be able to support each of the Clauses. He should confine himself on the present occasion merely to a few words on its most important principles. The most prominent of these was the recognition that any measure for national education, should repose on moral and religious instruction. That principle was admitted by every civilized state of Europe and America, and laid down as the groundwork of all amelioration, without which education itself would produce evil, by spreading wider the seeds of error and dissension. It was well said by Mirabeau, that liberty was not so important as religious and moral instruction; and the experience of all history had shewn the justice of the remark. The second principle laid down in the preamble of the Bill was this:—that wherever a system of education was intended to be extensively applied and permanently secured, it could only be accomplished by the joint co-operation of Government and individuals. Therefore, while it was necessary that Government should have that control over education which belonged to the superintending power, it was necessary that the people should co-operate. This principle he had endeavoured to carry through every part of the measure. In all cases of this kind it was obvious that the people must feel considerable interest in the improvement of their immediate connexions; but it was impossible that in remote and poor parishes anything like a general system of education could be established, unless, in the outset, the first efforts were made, by a Board. If the people contribute, he had taken care to give them a share in the management by Local or School Committees—not so as to interfere with the labours of the teachers, but so as to keep up a proper inspection.
 1131 1132
 Mr. Finn : I heard the hon. and gallant Member distinctly, and the case he put was certainly hypothetical.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  wished to know whether the existing sons of freemen were not to be placed in the same situation as apprentices?
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  submitted that he was strictly in order in urging, at that time, any point that occurred to him relative to the Bill in question, and he would therefore take that opportunity of expressing his hope that when the noble Lord should, in Committee, propose an Amendment which could go to respect the inchoate and vested rights of apprentices, he would extend it to the existing sons of freemen, whose claim appeared to him to be even stronger than that of apprentices, and numbers of whom would, in point of fact, have been bound apprentices to their parents or to other freemen, but that as being born free, they were entitled on coming to age, to all the rights and privileges which apprenticeship could confer.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, that as far as the noble Lord's Amendments went, they were satisfactory to him, and he was grateful for them, and the more so as they admitted a principle which must ultimately be extended to the existing sons of freemen. He could not see why "the accident of birth" should make any difference in the mode of treating the rights of those who were born free from those who would become free by apprenticeship, unless, indeed, it was a difference in favour of the former. Many persons enjoyed titles and estates by "the accident of birth," and he did not see why these poor men should lose their rights as freemen, which were as dear to them as the titles and estates of the noble Lords opposite, merely because they enjoyed them only by "the accident of birth." But, in point of fact, the sons of freemen, if thus deprived, would, in numbers of instances, incur the loss of these rights and privileges solely by reason of "the accident of birth," which ought to confirm them, for, as he had before stated, they would have
 1183
 Sir Edward Codrington  observed, that it was most desirable that the Committee in question should be empowered at once to take into consideration and report upon such cases as these; such an additional power would greatly add to the benefits to be derived from the labours of the Committee.
 Sir Edward Kerrison : As I should certainly have thought what fell from the gallant Colonel opposite to have been, without explanation, an insult, my feelings upon the subject would have been the same as those of my noble Friend; but after the matter has been placed in so clear a light as it has been by you, Sir, I do hope he will get up and at once declare that the matter is settled to his satisfaction.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  concurred in the
 1130
 Mr. Henry Bulwer  merely wished to make one or two observations in reference to what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel). The right hon. Baronet, in the first place, spoke against the Order in Council as an act to be regretted, because, in his opinion, it was adopting a line of policy which would sanction other Governments in interfering in case of any domestic differences in this country. He (Mr. Bulwer) begged to ask the right hon. Baronet this question,— What course did the right hon. Baronet himself pursue under similar circumstances? The right hon. Baronet came into that House, of which he was so great an ornament, in the year 1810. Not many years afterwards, the remarkable event took place of Buonaparte's landing from Elba, and passing without opposition through the whole of France, and arriving at Paris, the capital of that country. The question was then agitated in the British House of Commons, whether it was expedient or right for the Government of this country to interfere in the affairs of France; and after an animated discussion upon the subject, it was at last determined that England should interfere, and that she should do so at a much greater cost of public money, and a much greater expenditure of British blood, than could possibly result from the interference which it was now proposed to make in the affairs of Spain. He begged to ask the right hon. Baronet whether he did not give his sanction to the Government which adopted that course, and which interfered in domestic dispute in a foreign nation, where nearly the whole of the nation was arrayed on one side, and none but foreign troops on the other? It was well known that the right hon. Baronet had given his support to the Government who pursued that course, and in his opinion, the right hon. Baronet was perfectly justified in so doing. But, then, the right hon. Baronet inquired, "How, if you adopt this course, can you prevent other Governments from
 1174
 Mr. Ward  said, after the magnificent introduction of the hon. Member for Dover, he had expected something like argument and fact, but he had heard neither the one nor the other, except that what he considered a fact, that Don Carlos was King of Spain, not by the grace of God, but by the grace of the hon. Member for Dover. He would not enter into the question of legitimacy, but come at once to the point, and say that the noble Lord, by the course which he had pursued, had impeded the progress of other important business, without the prospect of obtaining any beneficial object. He was aware that the noble Lord had given way on Monday, but what had he obtained by persisting in bringing forward the Motion of that evening? He had got the consent of the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, for the production of the papers, with the contents of which every one in the House was perfectly well acqainted. [Lord  Mahon 1166 1167 prestige
 Mr. Ward : I was sitting close by the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster, and the conviction on my mind is, that the expression referred to was used hypothetically by him in the first instance.
 Mr. Ward  said, that this was not only a crying grievance in itself, but it formed one of a class of abuses which called for immediate and effectual remedy. If anything had been wanting to show the absolute necessity of such an inquiry as that moved for the other night by the hon. Member for Southwark, the present petition supplied the deficiency in most unanswerable language. One of the items detailed by the hon. Member was "2,992 l. 1129
 Mr. Ward  also supported it, and expressed his gratification that the stigma which the petition presented from Bir-
 1127
 Sir John Elley  rose to speak rather in a military than in a political point of view. He agreed most cordially in the opinion of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, that every conciliating measure of interference ought to be resorted to, with regard to the present circumstances of Spain, before any auxiliary troops were allowed to enter that country. But if, under any circumstances, these British troops were allowed to enter Spain, it immediately became necessary to ascertain how the Finance
 1175 1176
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that in many instances property in expectancy was as much a matter of right as that in actual possession. Expectancies purchased for a valuable consideration—of 25 l., l,
 Sir Robert Inglis  heard with great surprise, the arguments just advanced by the noble Lord. This was certainly the first time that he (Rir R. Inglis) had heard the application of property used as an argument against the possession of it.
 Sir Robert Peel  did not go the full length of saying, that in all cases the interests of individuals should be sacrificed. He expressed an opinion on reserved cases which should be taken into consideration, those of individuals who purchased certain corporate rights and privileges. These he was of opinion should be respected. But, generally, he admitted that most of the property of corporations was intended for the benefit of the community at large; and it would be desirable that the community should recover it as soon as possible.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that nothing was more reasonable than the proposal made by the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs (Lord Palmerston), that if any observations were made on the policy of the Act to which his noble Friend had called the attention of the House, which required explanation, he should not be debarred by a rigorous adherence to the rules of the House from meeting those observations. He was bound, in the first place, to
 1156 1157 1158 1159 1160
 Sir Robert Peel  said, it was desirable that this part of the measure should be settled upon a fixed and sound principle. He knew it was difficult to suggest anything in which it might not be possible to show that some part of it was not in strict conformity with a general principle. But it seemed to be agreed by all parties that it was very desirable to make corporate property available for the benefit of the commonalty at large. There might be special cases in which the property had been given to particular individuals; but assuming that, by the original intention of the donors, the property was for the benefit of the inhabitants of the boroughs at large, it was admitted that, by very long prescription, of which they could scarcely trace the origin, this property had been appropriated to certain descriptions of inhabitants only, and that the right to participate in it was now only to be acquired by birth, servitude, or marriage. It appeared to him that it would be consistent with respect to the original destination of this property—at least it would be as near an approximation to its original destination as it was possible to arrive at, if the House were to establish this principle — namely, that those who were not now married should not hereafter by marriage derive any right to participate in this property: that those who had not yet entered into servitude, should not have any such right; but that those who had so entered into servitude should be considered as having an inchoate right; and that with respect to birth, those now actually born should be put upon the same footing as those who had now actually entered into servitude; while those who should hereafter be born should participate in the property only so far as they were members of the commonalty at large. He thought this would be putting corporate property into the hands of the commonalty as speedily as possible, consistent with justice to the rights of individuals. He would respect the inchoate rights of those who were now married, those who were now bound, and those who were now born, which would be respecting the rights of the existing generation at the expense only of a little delay. That seemed to him to be an in-
 1187
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, the general principle laid down by the right hon. Gentleman, of not allowing a descent of right to the son, was opposed to every principle of law and property. The title of the son was confirmed to him by law, and should not be taken away without compensation. The person on whom an estate was settled in succession had as good a right to it as the existing owner. That was one of the fundamental principles of the Law of Property, and could not be violated without the grossest outrage on justice. It was said, "If you establish a case of perpetual succession, where will you end? But Parliament and the law had granted the right to him, and it could not be taken away without compensation. Parliament certainly could interfere with the Law of Property; but when, he wished to know, did Parliament ever deprive a man of his property without compensation? If Parliament once established the principle, that it had a right to take away property of any description by the mere  fiat 1196
 Sir William Follett  understood the Amendment of the noble Lord opposite to admit the principle, that certain persons had vested rights in property which ought not to be destroyed, and on that ground he supposed the noble Lord was now prepared to exempt from the operation of the Clause, not only existing freemen, but all those who should be serving their apprenticeships on a certain day. Now, if this principle were once fairly established, we ought in furtherance of it to exempt all persons having at this moment the same description of vested interests. He therefore asked the noble Lord to preserve every existing right. —every vested interest now in being; but he did not ask him to go beyond that point, which fell fairly within the operation of his own principle, or to maintain contingent interests, as in the case of parties now unborn. It appeared to him, that it mattered not whether such interests were vested in parties by birth or purchase—in either case they ought to be preserved. He was aware of the difficulty of drawing a line, but put it to the Committee, whether the best line that could be drawn did not consist in the preservation of existing vested interests? What was the distinction between an apprentice whose right was admitted and the son of a freeman now born who would possess the same right on arriving at the age of twenty-one? The right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had said, that in the case of apprentices the vested right might have been purchased; but to this he replied, that in many cases there was no purchase, the apprentice
 1198 l. 1199
 Mr. Trevor  said, that his objection to this Amendment was, that it was only a half-and-half measure; in short, that it was an aggravation of the original wrong.
 Viscount Howick  must beg to interrupt the hon. Baronet for one moment. He
 1193
 Viscount Howick  said, it was perfectly clear to his mind, that if they gave way to the amendment of the hon. Member for Worcester (Mr. Robinson), they would open a door which it would be extremely difficult to shut, and adopt a principle which experience proved to be most ill-advised and injurious. The right hon. Baronet had stated, he thought most unanswerably, that it was of the greatest possible importance that the property of the corporations should, at as early a period as possible be vested in the community at
 1191 l. bona fide 1192 l.
 Lord Mahon : I have nothing to add to the explanation I have already given. That explanation is before the House, and has, Sir, been rightly construed by you. I have yet to learn whether the hon. Member opposite (Colonel Evans) did or did not use the expressions which others as well as myself conceived him to have used.
 Lord Mahon : One point I would press upon the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs. As almost every Member who has spoken from either side of the House has regretted that the inhabitants of the Basque provinces should have lost their ancient privileges, he will perhaps make some representation in their favour.
 Lord Mahon : If I understand the hon. and gallant Member rightly, he formerly spoke under a mistaken impression of what I had said, and does not intend to apply to me the terms of contempt and disgust he used. I have no hesitation, therefore, in saying that I am perfectly satisfied.
 Lord Mahon  could have no hesitation in saying, that he had no intention of making any remark disrespectful to the gallant Colonel.
 Lord Mahon  rose to bring forward the Motion upon the subject of the late Orders in Council in regard to the Foreign Enlistment Act, of which, some time past, he had given notice. The noble Lord commenced by expressing his regret that he should stand in the way of any hon. Members in whose name a Motion for that evening stood, and expressed his obligation for the consideration evinced in permitting him to take precedence of the other business which stood upon the paper. It was not for his own sake that he asked the House to give him an opportunity of submitting his Motion—it was for the sake of the important subject to which that Resolution referred; and, much as the attention of hon. Members was at the present moment directed to a question of the greatest domestic interest, he confidently trusted that they would, for a short time turn to a ques-
 1134 1135 1136 1137 1138 condottiéeri. 1139 1140 1141 1142 "He could not but think that the choice of the Duke of Wellington, as the person by whom this advice was to be given, was most delicate towards Spanish feelings, and most consistent with a regard to Spanish honour. If there was any man in Europe from whom advice to Spain would flow free from the remotest taint of suspicion—and might be taken by all Spaniards as dictated by the sincerest regard for Spain—it was the Duke of Wellington. It is often said that nothing creates so strong an affection as the consciousness of benefits conferred. If ever there was a man who conferred upon any nation benefits which should call down blessings on his head from every voice —from the lisping accents of infancy to the tremulous benedictions of age—that man was the Duke of Wellington, that nation the Spanish people. It is also true, in the principles of human nature, that man loves the theatre of his glory, and the companions of his triumphs. The proudest laurels which encircle the brow of the Duke of Wellington were gathered in the sterile and unfruitful fields of Spain. It was in the provinces of the Peninsula, and surrounded by its co-operating population, that he displayed those various qualities which form the character of the unconquered General and the consummate Statesman— characters which, rare in their separate existence, are uncommon indeed in their union in the same individual; it was there that he established that imperishable fame that will last while history endures. Was it in human nature that the Duke of Wellington should not take the warmest interest in all that concerns Spain and the Spanish people? Was it possible that they should not feel, that advice from him came as free from suspicion as from the best patriot in Spain; and could they suppose that the man who had rescued Spain from subjection, and washed out from her soil the pollution of invading footsteps in the blood of the de-
 1143 "Had we engaged in the war it is by an army alone that we could have given effectual assistance; and from the first moment that an English soldier set foot in the Peninsula we should by necessity have become principals in the war, and upon us would have fallen the whole burden of the contest; for we must have sent a large army, or none at all. To have sent a force so small as to depend upon Spanish co-operation and support, and not large enough to act independently, and to stand upon its own resources, would have been to expose us to the certainty of defeat and disgrace, and wilfully to drag in the dirt the laurels we gained in the last war." † * Hansard, vol. viii, (new series) p. 1456. † Ibid, p, 1458.
 Lord Mahon  said, that he had expressly stated that the motives of these men might be honourable, but not sufficient. He admitted the bravery and the enterprise of these individuals, but that was not enough in his view to justify their proceedings.
 Lord Morpeth  had no objection to the second reading of the Bill, on the understanding that it should not be further proceeded with during the present Session, in order that the Government might consider during the recess, how far the objects of it might be practicable.
 Lord Morpeth  thought there were too many questions already before the Select Committee to justify the House in sending another at the present advanced period of the Session. It would, however, be time enough to consider that when the Report came from the Committee on Diocesan Schools.
 Viscount Palmerston  had certainly un-
 1150 condottiéri,
 Viscount Palmerston  began by assuring the noble Lord that he should offer no opposition to the production of the papers in question; on the contrary so confident did he feel that the more the conduct of his Majesty's Government on this subject was investigated, the more would it obtain the approbation of that House and of the country—that he should willingly give his support to any Motion, such as that of the noble Lord, which tended to lay more fully before the House and the public the nature of the transaction to which those papers referred—and the grounds on which it rested. He was glad that the noble Lord, in the beginning of his speech, had cleared away in some respects those points on which a difference of opinion might have been supposed to exist between them, and that he had stated it not to be his intention to question either the legality of the Order in Council, or the policy of the Treaty of the Quadruple Alliance. At the same time he must be permitted to remark, holding, as he did, that the measure under discussion grew out of that treaty as its natural consequence, and was conceived purely in the spirit of it, that he could not but feel great surprise that the noble Lord should abstain from questioning the policy of the treaty, when he had so strongly condemned the policy of a measure which flowed from it as a necessary corollary. He was glad to have then an opportunity, which circumstances had deprived him of on Friday evening, of giving his testimony to the policy of the Convention signed by Lord Eliot and Colonel Gurwood, and of saying that he thought it redounded highly to the credit of the Government by whose instructions it had been proposed. He regarded it as an act of which they might be proud, as advantageous to all parties concerned. He was equally ready to bear his testimony to the fair, sincere, and honourable manner in which the late Government conducted the foreign relations of this country in reference to the contest in Spain, and the execution of the Quadruple Treaty. The noble Lord had quoted from a speech which he (Lord Palmerston) had made on a former occasion, a passage in which he had stated his opinion that the Duke of Wellington was, from the services which he had rendered to Spain, peculiarly entitled to be the counsellor of Spain in the hour of difficulty, and must be looked upon as one who had the interest of Spain at heart. He had not altered in one iota the opinions ex-
 1145 1146 Mahon: 1147 1148 1149
 Viscount Palmerston  begged the indulgence of the House while he offered a few remarks in reply to the right hon. Baronet. The right hon. Baronet had admitted the necessity of carrying the Quadruple Treaty into effect. He begged, therefore, to recal the attention of the House to the circumstances under which the Quadruple Treaty was signed. Don Carlos and Don Miguel were then in Portugal. The claim of Don Carlos to the Throne of Spain had been set aside by what was considered throughout Europe as perfectly competent authority. This country immediately acknowledged the right of Queen Isabella to the
 1161 1162 1163 1164
 Lord Palmerston  thought it was generally known that Russia, Prussia, and Austria had not, at present, any Ambassadors at Madrid. He thought it also was well known that the King of Naples had protested against the change in the order of succession.
 Mr. Thorneley  said, that although it was very true the Corporation of Liverpool
 1231 l., l. l. l.
 Mr. Hope  was of opinion that no proceedings should be taken on this petition or in this affair further until all the circumstances had been fully investigated. With respect to the petitioner's statement that he had received 20 l.
 Sir George Clerk  took the same view of the question as the hon. Member for Haddington who had just spoken. He would put it to the noble Lord opposite, to say whether he did not think the parties had suffered punishment sufficient for the offence they had committed. The noble Lord would find, that in no former case where parties had been sent to Newgate by the House for a similar offence, had they been subjected to so long an imprisonment. If th were now to be called to the Bar, reprimanded, and discharged, it would still be open for the House to take any further
 1234
 Mr. Kearsleg  rose, in pursuance of the notice he had given, to move "that the persons now confined in Newgate in consequence of the report of the Ipswich election Committee be brought to the Bar of the House." After what had passed, he would not occupy the time of the House. He sincerely hoped hon. Members would not refuse to accede to his Motion, but that they would be merciful to those who were now in affliction, knowing, as they must, how much they—how very much they themselves stood in need of mercy.
 Mr. O'Connell  felt called on to make a remark or two after what had just fallen from the Attorney-General. When the indictment against these men was first found, his impression was that the conviction was illegal. He had no hesitation in avowing that he changed his opinion on the subject after hearing what fell from the Attorney-General, respect for whose judgment led him, inclined as he always was to defer to it, to doubt his own. He had since that time given the case much consideration, and the opinion he now entertained was that the conviction was not sustainable.
 Mr. Blackburne  did not wish to protract the discussion, but merely to express a hope that the Government would again take the case of these men into consideration; for
 1263
 The Solicitor- General  said, that this debate had been conducted with the most perfect calmness and propriety, until the hon. Member for Southwark rose to take part in it. He thought, however, that the success of the cause which that hon. Member advocated would not be much promoted by the tone which he had assumed in the remarks which he had addressed to the House. The reason why his hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney-General, had spoken so shortly on this Question, was to give a contradiction to his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Huddersfield, in terms as short as those which that hon. and learned Gentleman had used when he said, that the sentence passed on these individuals was not, in his opinion, strictly legal. It would be tedious were he to go into the details of the trial; but he thought that he could state very shortly reasons sufficient to prove the complete legality of the decision to which the Judges came upon this indictment. The indictment was framed on the 37th George 3rd, c. 7. That Statute made it a felony for any person to
 1267 primâ facie
 Mr. O'Connell  hoped that his hon. Friend, the Member for Finsbury, before he rose to reply, would remember that his first duty on the present occasion was to be useful to these individuals. It would require the exercise of all his hon. Friend's judgment to decide properly on the course which he ought now to pursue. He therefore wished his hon. Friend to take his advice on the course which it was most advisable to follow. His hon. Friend must know that the House of Commons was an improper place for an appeal from the decisions of the Courts of Law. Hon. Members could not indulge their sympathies on such occasions without running the risk of injuring a great constitutional principle. His hon. Friend had heard from the noble Lord the manner in which he had already mitigated the punishment inflicted by the sentence of the Court. He had remitted the punishment of four individuals entirely, and had ordered it to be mitigated so far as regarded the other two. If, then, there was any difference between the noble Lord and his hon. Friend, it could only be with regard to that part of the punishment on two individuals which still remained unremitted. Now, in pressing this Motion, would his hon. Friend leave Ministers in that situation which was best calculated to produce a further remission of the sentence? Would he not, if Government was in a majority, as there was every reason to expect that they would be, leave the Government under the impression that the House was of opinion that they had already done
 1269
 Sir George Clerk  did not think that any alteration of the law was necessary, for at
 1274
 Captain Wemys  said, the Bill would lead to endless controversies between landlords and tenants. The hon. Mover had greatly exaggerated the evil of the present system, and he thought the Bill so uncalled for, that he would divide the House against the Motion if he stood alone.
 The Lord-Advocate  did not agree with the gallant Member. The game laws in Scotland were a perfect nuisance to the tenants, and certainly the law as it at present stood was not adequate to give them relief.
 Mr. Young  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to repeal certain Clauses in the Act 55, Geo. 3rd, c. 57, imposing duties on tonnage and goods in the trade with countries within the limits of the exclusive privileges of the South Sea Company. The hon. Member explained that the Clauses he wished to have repealed, threw a great burthen exclusively on the shipping interest. It was as unnecessary too as it was unjust.
 Mr. Young  would withdraw his Motion, on the understanding that a measure would be introduced next Session.
 Mr. Cresset Pelham  said, the Motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury could hardly be considered an interference with the King's prerogative of mercy any more than it was an interference of that description to petition the Crown for mercy, which was often done with success.
 Mr. Fox Maule  moved for leave, according to his notice, to bring in a "Bill for relief of the tenants and occupiers of land in Scotland from the damages done to their crops by hares, pheasants, and rabbits." On two farms of 132 acres, thirty-three of which were in pasture, the damage done by game last season, was no less than 335. Against this loss the farmer had no protection, and in the present state of the law could obtain no redress. The Bill he wished to bring in would remedy them by allowing the tenant to kill the game, and in compelling landlords in all existing leases to submit to arbitration.
 Mr. William F. S. Ponsonby  said, he was one of the Grand Jury who found the bill, and there was no difference of opinion amongst them.
 Lord Henniker  said, he had a Petition in his hand from Mr. Sparrow, which he had been requested to present.
 Lord John Russell  said, it would be advisable that all the petitions now in the hands of hon. Members, as well as any others which might be sent by to-morrow from the other prisoners, should first of all be presented; afterwards any order might be made for them to appear immediately at the Bar, and the House might take any course which it should think proper to adopt.
 Lord John Russell  asked the hon. Member for
 1236
 Lord John Russell  said, that it was with the deepest regret he saw such a Motion as the present submitted to the consideration of the House, yet he confessed that as far as
 1251 1252 1253 1254 1255 1256
 Lord John Russell  would state at once the answer he had to make to the hon. Member for Middlesex. What he had to say was, that in this case, as in any other that might be brought before him, whether in this House or out of it, he did not hold himself precluded from entering upon the consideration of any facts or circumstances which might come to his knowledge, and forming a judgment upon them without reserve; but he begged to add, that he had considered most deeply the case of the Dorchester labourers, and it did appear to him, on looking into what had been the conduct of two of the parties, he meant the two Lovelesses, that in the extension of mercy towards them, they ought to be distinguished from the others. His opinion was, that the four had been the dupes of the two he had named. With respect to these two, then, his conviction at the moment he was speaking was, that if he recommended, either on his own authority or in consequence of any proceedings in this House, the Crown to extend further mercy to them, he should be lending himself to weaken the authority of the law, and to impair the influence which that great institution, Trial by Judge and Jury, ought to have in this country.
 Lord John Russell  said, it seemed to him, that after what he said, and what had fallen from the hon. Member, that it would be better for the hon. Member to bring forward the Motion at once.
 Lord John Russell  thought it would be very inconvenient to press such a Motion at present.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that by his petition Mr. Pilgrim declared that owing to the agitation he was under when before the Committee, from his having been in custody by virtue of Mr. Speaker's warrant, and also under a criminal charge, he had not had presence of mind sufficient to enable him to make that statement.
 Mr Hawes  presented a Petition from John Pilgrim, confined in Newgate under an order of that House. The petitioner stated facts in his petition which required to be brought to the attention of the House. He stated that he had been thirty-years, preceding this transaction, the confidential clerk of Messrs. Sewell, Blake, and Co., the Solicitors at Norwich; that he was entirely under their control, and had acted throughout under their directions; that when he left England for Calais to avoid service of the Speaker's warrant he was asked to do so by a note from Mr. Keith of the house of Sewell, Blake, and Co.; that that note was procured as a colour for his absence from England; that he received 20 l. 1232
 Mr. Hawes  moved that John Pilgrim be called to the Bar of the House to-morrow.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that the Government contemplated a general measure, to include these duties which had been hitherto delayed owing to the difficulties of the subject. He hoped the hon. Member would withdraw his Motion.
 Mr. Tulk  considered, that in whatever way the Question was decided, the hon. Member for Finsbury would rest satisfied that he had done his duty, and would have the further satisfaction of knowing that the cause had not been injured by his conduct. He (Mr. Tulk) was well satisfied with the manner in which the Question had been met by the noble Lord. He could not, however, help regretting that he had made such a distinction in the objects of his mercy: he could not say that he believed the noble Lord had made out a case that the two Lovelesses were more guilty than the other four. He was not going then to enter into the Question of the justice of the sentence passed on them. He thought the House was not the proper place to raise that Question; but he asked the merciful consideration of the House, on the ground that the men were ignorant. He remembered last year, the late hon. and learned Member for Hull stated that he was ignorant of the Clause; and that undoubtedly the Clause applied to him inasmuch as being a member of a club he had taken a secret oath, and was, therefore, as much an object of justice as the six unfortunate labourers. If the hon. Member pressed the Motion to a division, he proposed the Members should vote in the following manner; that those Gentlemen,
 1268
 Mr. Harvey  expressed his surprise that any impatience should be manifested during a discussion affecting the working classes of the community, who had so few direct Representatives in the House. That class in this respect were unlike either the agricultural or manufacturing interests, whose friends, if the question affected them, would crowd all sides of the House, and secure the utmost attention. He should have hoped, that on this occasion there would have been manifested something like the appearance of impartiality, even though this debate had been extended to another night. He should have hoped that the intense anxiety prevailing out of doors, and the circumstance of nearly half a million of petitioners having approached the Legislature
 1264 1265 1266
 Mr. Harvey  presented a petition from an attorney at Dorchester, who stated that he was so affected by the arbitrary and severe course pursued by the Judge on the occasion of the trial of these men, that he could not remain in the Court to witness the remainder of the proceedings.
 Mr. Wodehouse  said, that he had a Petition to present to the House from Messrs. Sewell, Blake, and Co., but that from an accident he had it not with him, in which they distinctly denied the allegations made by Mr. Pilgrim in his petition. He hoped the House would permit him to present the petition to-morrow.
 Mr. Grote  thought, that the discharge of those persons should be preceded by the appointment of that Committee of which notice had been given for an inquiry into all those facts of the case which it was admitted on all hands were involved in the greatest mystery.
 Mr. Grote  moved that the petition be read.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, he had received a number of petitions from individuals in the borough which he represented, in favour of a remission of the sentence, and as many of these persons had not votes for Members of Parliament, and consequently were unrepresented, he considered it a duty only the more imperative on that account to represent their wishes to the House. The question lay in a narrow compass, and he thought that any Member might support the Motion of the hon Member for Finsbury, though at the same time he disapproved of the conduct of the men. He did
 1257 John Russell:
 Mr. Warburton  would propose, if Mr. Pilgrim were to be brought to the Bar tomorrow for the purpose of being examined, that the House should sit at twelve o'clock, and that he should be examined then, so that the other important business now before the House should not be interfered with.
 Mr. Benett  understood that the object of the Bill was only to assimilate the law in the two countries, and he would support the Motion.
 Mr. Roebuck contended, that the Dorchester labourers were perfectly ignorant of the law; that they had a right to assemble together for the purpose of fixing a certain price on their labour, though, in the mode in which they did so, they might have been guilty of some offence, but certainly not of that which deserved the severe punishment of transportation.
 Mr. Roebuck  reminded the House, that these unfortunate men were so hurried out of the country, that there was no opportunity of learning what they could say in their own behalf.
 Mr. Wilks  considered it impossible, consistently with the claims of justice, to make an order for the attendance of the prisoners to-morrow, especially after the notice which had been given by the hon. Member for Norfolk (Mr. Wodehouse) of the petition to be presented from Messrs. Sewell and Blake, with reference to the allegations of Pilgrim. It was but right that both sides should be heard before any step was taken towards the discharge of that individual. In the present state of the matter it was the duty of the House to take care that it was not precipitate in its proceedings.
 Mr. Brotherton  said, that having presented to the House a petition, signed by upwards of 22,000 individuals in favour of the unfortunate men now suffering under a sentence of transportation, he hoped to be allowed, in the name of the petitioners to implore the House and his Majesty's Government to use their influence in order that mercy might be extended to those six unfortunate individuals. He was satisfied that a remission of their sentence would not be hailed by the people of this country as a triumph over the Government, but, on the contrary, would be received by millions with thankfulness and gratitude. He was not disposed to blame the noble Lord or the Government for the course which had been pursued, but he must state, that there were some extenuating circumstances in the case which had weight upon his mind.
 1262
 Mr. Hume  wished to press on the noble Lord's consideration that what appeared to be the general wish was that all six of the men should be placed on the footing of the four to whom the noble Lord proposed to extend the mercy of the Crown. The noble Lord could scarcely be aware of the anxiety which existed amongst all classes of the community on this subject; but it was particularly strong in that class with which he was most anxious that the Government should stand well. The prevailing feeling was that the punishment of these men was a personal injustice. He would not now enter into the question of whether it was so or not; but he would express his wish that the noble Lord would hold out some hopes that the difference between what was granted and what was refused would
 1238
 Mr. Hume  apprehended that it was not competent to propose any measure of relief for persons who had been committed to Newgate by that House for an offence against the House until after the parties themselves had presented petitions.
 Mr. Hume  suggested the propriety of having the petition printed. It appeared to him that men of respectability and character had been concerned in a conspiracy to defeat the power and object of the Legislature, and it would be a question hereafter for the House to consider whether a Committee ought not to be appointed to inquire into the circumstances. There were not only the persons mentioned in Mr. Pilgrim's petition, but the Magistrates in the county of Norfolk who had become very deeply involved in this transaction; and he could not help thinking that there ought to be the fullest investigation into the circumstances, that eventually blame should not he cast on the innocent.
 Mr. Hume  seconded the Motion, and said he was anxious to do so, because he was one of those who took a part in framing the Act of 1826, respecting the combination of workmen. He was happy the noble Lord had determined to re-consider the subject. The objects of these poor labourers were justifiable, and only directed to protect their interests against an attempt made by their employers to reduce the wages of their labour one-seventh. He strongly recommended their cases to the noble Lord, who, he hoped, would not sanction an opinion rather prevalent, that their improved information and peculiar religious opinions had, in some degree, been permitted to aggravate their unwitting offences against an obsolete law. He appealed, therefore, to the noble Lord, if they even had committed a fault, whether they had not amply atoned for it? He entreated the noble Lord to consider the number of persons who had petitioned for a remission of the sentence passed on these men, and the excitement which the severity of their punishment had caused throughout the country. To one petition alone there were upwards of 21,000 signatures; and he believed the entire number of persons who had petitioned in their favour exceeded 800,000. If this boon were granted to these unfortunate persons it would impress a conviction throughout the population of the country, that although it might be delayed, justice in the end was sure to prevail in England.
 Mr. Philip Howard  thought the principle of the Measure bad, and not regarding it as a cabinet measure, he should oppose it at once.
 Mr. Robert Steuart  said, that he held in his hand a similar petition from Mr. Dasent, who was also well known to the House. By his petition he confessed his crime, alluded to the extent of his punishment, and expressed his willingness to appear at the Bar, and answer any questions the House might be pleased to put to him. Probably the best, easiest, and shortest course to arrive at justice would be to pursue the line which had been adopted in the Camelford case in 1819. In that case the period of imprisonment did not exceed five days, a d he really thought the fair course here would be to have the parties brought to the Bar, that they might be reprimanded and discharged, on their deliberate undertaking, as in the Camelford case, to return and give full and free examination whenever they might be required to do so at any future time.
 Mr. Robert Steuart  said, he should like very much that the whole of this thing should be sifted fully, and that it should he made public, because he was quite sure that, notwithstanding the long investigation which had taken place on this subject, there was still much that remained in mystery. At the same time, he thought that the parties ought to be brought up and discharged in the manner he had before pointed out had been done in the Camelford case.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  hoped the Crown would extend its clemency, and place the whole of these men on an equal footing.
 Mr. Gisborne  said, that if the House brought Mr. Pilgrim up to be examined at the Bar, he believed it would be adopting a course which had not been resorted to on any former occasion. On all previous occasions, a party having similarly of-
 1233
 Mr. Wakley  then rose, and in bringing forward his Motion could not help expressing his astonishment that the foreman of the Grand Jury, a gentleman in that House, should endeavour, even before the case was heard there, to interpose between the sufferers and the seat of mercy, and he hoped that if any other hon. Member was connected with the prosecution he would, at least, hear the discussion. The hon. Member for Dorsetshire was himself the Foreman of the Grand Jury, and he, upon an  ex-parte s. s., 1240 1241 1242 1243 1244 s. s. 1245 s. 1246 1247 1248 Speaker "The quality of mercy is not strained; It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven, Upon the place beneath. It is twice blessed; It blesaeth him that gives, and him that takes." 1249 1250
 Mr. Wakley  said, that if the two men had been treated in the same manner as the other four, he should have been disposed to be content. He was prepared to prove that those persons were innocent; nay more, he could show that they ought not to have been prosecuted at all. The learned Attorney-General said the prosecution was a just one; but he begged to ask the hon. and learned Gentleman under what Act of Parliament the prisoners were prosecuted? If the Attorney-General could not tell, how should poor ignorant men, living in remote districts of the country, know any thing about it. If the noble Lord would reconsider the question, he would defer his Motion till some day next week, otherwise he must bring it forward.
 Mr. Wakley,  in reply, said, when the noble Lord opposite had any question to propose hon. Members showed the utmost forbearance for hours; but when the case of poor labourers was introduced to the House, he hoped the Representatives of the people of England would not refuse some time to them. He trusted these wretched sufferers would not be repulsed because they were poor. The impatience which had been displayed by some hon. Members during the consideration of the case of these poor and unfortunate individuals, formed an instructive contrast to the attentive patience which had been paid to a recent motion which affected the honour and character of a nobleman of rank, who filled the situation of Lieutenant of an Irish county. He would not, however, prejudice his clients by exciting unpleasant feelings, but would proceed to notice some of the objections made to his Motion. And first with regard to the objection which had been made to his Motion, on the ground that it was an improper interference with the prerogative of the Crown, he had only to observe, that he had consulted their journals, and found more than one instance of such interference with it as he had proposed. One instance was of so extraordinary a character that he would briefly state the nature of it to the House. In the year 1814, the noble Member for Devonshire (Lord Ebrington) moved that an address be presented to the Crown for remission of part of the sentence inflicted by the Court of King's Bench on Lord Cochrane. On that occasion Mr. Michael Angelo Taylor expressed his regret that a question which had been decided by a jury should be brought under the cognizance of that House, because he was convinced that that was not the place in which the merits of a proceeding of the kind could with propriety be tried. The best and safest way, as it appeared to Mr. M. A. Taylor, was to leave the prerogative of mercy unmolested, where the constitution had placed it, and not to attempt any interference whatever. To this argument a reply was given by an hon. Member, whom the House acknowledged to be high authority in all cases of parliamentary practice and privilege—he meant the right hon. Member for Montgomeryshire. That gentleman said that—"if they subscribed to the doctrine of his learned Friend, there would be at once an abandonment of their best rights, privileges, and immunities. His learned Friend had said that it was better to leave
 1272
 Mr. Ewart  said, that he thought the fact stated last night by an hon. Member, that in Liverpool a merchant was taxed to the extent of 1,400 l.
 Mr. Mark Philips  amidst cries of "Question," which rendered the hon. Member nearly inaudible, observed that, during the last Session he had presented several petitions on this subject, and had examined into all the allegations and statements bearing upon the case, and which had been urged against the legality of the conviction, and the sentence to which these men had been condemned. He had, by that examination satisfied himself that the sentence was a legal sentence, and he had, both in Parliament, and to the working-classes out of doors, declared such to be his conviction. He, however, must now, as he had done before, call upon the Government to temper justice with mercy. He deprecated as much as any man the formation of these unions, and he was anxious to rescue the operative classes from, that tyranny which owed its origin to the selfish views of one or two individuals. He differed from the noble Lord (Lord Howick) in the opinion he had expressed as to what were likely to be the feelings of the people if the sentence were reversed. He agreed with the hon. Member for Salford in thinking, that an extension of mercy would be received by the people with gratitude.
 Mr. Ward  said, when it was seen how much difference of opinion existed as to this case, he thought a very strong claim was made on behalf of these men for mercy. All the purposes of this prosecution had been answered; it had proved to the labouring classes the danger of secret associations, and had put a stop to similar combinations.
 The Attorney-General  merely rose in consequence of what had fallen from his hon. and learned Friend who had just sat down. His hon. and learned Friend had truly said, that this House was not a Court of Appeal from the decision of a Judge of Assize, and therefore it would not become him (the Attorney-General) to enter into any argument upon the question of legality. He was, notwithstanding, prepared to show by sections of the statute in question, by decisions of the Court of King's Bench, and by two other statutes agreeing with the first  in part materiâ,
 The Attorney-General  said, that after a great deal of deliberation on the case, it appeared to be the opinion of all persons that these unfortunate men had violated the law.
 Mr. Jervis  was decidedly against interfering between landlords and tenants. As the law now stood, tenants had the remedy in their own hands.
 Sir John Wrottesley  could not accede to the Motion. The petition should be printed, and afterwards the House ought to have twenty-four hours for consideration.
 Sir Robert Peel  thought, that there would be considerable difficulty in making any order for the prisoners to appear tomorrow to await any contingency that might occur. The mere circumstance of their being in waiting would fetter the proceedings of the House. At the same time there would, no doubt, be considerable hardship in detaining them in prison till Monday, if the House should ultimately be of opinion that they ought to be discharged to-morrow. He should recommend that the whole of the petitions be now presented, and taken into consideration immediately the House met to-morrow, and if the prevailing opinion was that the petitioners ought to be discharged, they would, no doubt, submit to the inconvenience of interrupting the debate in a later period of the evening, in order to have their immediate attendance. That course, he thought, would be most considerate for all parties.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that he should give his vote on this occasion upon a great principle which excluded any reference to the individual merits of the case. He thought that the consideration of it ought to be left in the hands of those who were responsible for their decision—he meant, in the hands of the executive Government. He did not dispute—on the contrary, he admitted—the right of the House, if it entertained a suspicion that the course of justice was perverted for corrupt purposes, to interfere for the purpose of redressing so great a wrong. He did not, however, see that there was any allegation or even any suspicion that Government had been actuated by any improper motive in the consideration of this case, and therefore, he should recommend the House to leave the Question in the hands of the executive Government—the constitutional party by whom the punishment ought to be fixed. He did not hesitate to say that if Government should be in a majority in resisting this Question, that majority ought to have no influence in their minds with respect to their ultimate decision respecting these individuals. He did not give his vote on
 1270
 Mr. Sergeant Wilde  said, that he happened to be at Dorchester when the case of these men came on for trial. He was generally intrusted with the care of conducting the prosecutions instituted by Government on that circuit; and in performance of that task upon that occasion he had carefully looked into the statutes against which they were charged to have offended, in order that he might discharge his duty properly. He came to the conclusion that if the witnesses should prove the facts which were communicated to him as the groundwork of the prosecution, the parties, whom he was directed to prosecute, had been guilty of the offence mentioned in those acts of Parliament which had been quoted by his hon. and learned Friend, the Solicitor-General. The hon. and learned Member proceeded at some length to argue the legality of all the proceedings in this case; and at the conclusion of his argument said that he had not risen to offer any objection to the extension of mercy to these misguided individuals. He thought, however, that any doubt as to the legality of their sentence formed a very different subject from the consideration of their claims to mercy. He thought, too, that it was a doubt which ought to be disposed of, before the claims for mercy were even considered; for the claims of justice were the first claims which ought to be satisfied. If the parties were suffering under an illegal sentence, it could not be for the public good that they should any longer suffer a punishment which the law did not affix to their offence; but if they were legally convicted of an offence clearly denounced by the law, then it was not usual for the House to interfere with the exercise of the most valuable prerogative of the Crown.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  could see no objection to the House now making a simple order for the attendance of the prisoners tomorrow in custody of the keeper of Newgate; and they might then determine what course should be pursued. The great object in committing them had already been accomplished—namely, the vindication of the honour and independence of the House.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, he really thought the better way would be to postpone any proceedings for the present, that all the parties might have an opportunity of having petitions presented.
 Viscount Howick  agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just spoken, that that House was not the proper tribunal for the decision of such a question as the present; and that if there was any serious doubt as to the legality of the sentence passed upon the individuals in question, the matter ought to be submitted to the twelve Judges. His noble Friend (Lord John Russell) was represented to have said that the Lovelesses might have thought they were doing what was for the good of society. He believed his noble Friend, in anything he uttered upon this occasion, did not admit, and could not have intended to admit, that these men did not well know they were doing what was wrong; but even if they thought other-
 1258 1259 1260 1261
 Lord Sandon  rose to present a Petition of rather a complicated nature, but of very deep importance. It was a petition from the Mayor and Corporation of Liverpool, showing how the Corporation Reform Bill now before the House would affect their vested rights, their liabilities, and peculiar circumstances. They did not wish to offer any opposition to the progress of the bill, but merely to show the existence of certain local regulations and peculiar circumstances, which it would be difficult to accommodate to the general principles of that measure. The petition first recited the amount of income from freehold lands, &c, at the disposal of the Corporation, and then proceeded to show the amount of debts and liabilities which they had incurred, and which they had secured in a great measure by bonds. In respect to these debts the petitioners hoped that the House would
 1230
 Viscount Stormont  doubted the utility of the proposed Bill, but he would not oppose the Motion.
 Mr. Ruthven  believed that there was very good reason for people not running
 1277
 Mr. Kemeyes Tynte  said, that he did not
 1278
 An Hon. Member : The same impression was certainly on his mind as that which had been expressed by the hon. Member for Wallingford; for he did not think that the offence of stealing the stamp had been altogether forgiven; though from Mr. Pilgrim's subsequent good conduct it had gone out of the recollection of his employers.
 Sir George Clerk  contended, that it had been admitted, that Mr. Sparrowe was not charged with any acts of bribery; and the hon. Member for Derbyshire having agreed that two persons, against whom distinct acts of bribery had been proved, should be discharged, maintained that Mr. Sparrowe should be kept in custody simply because his (Mr. Gisborne's) impression on reading the evidence was, that he was morally guilty of bribery. This he considered was an unfair mode of proceeding, because he was prejudging a man on a charge on which he might hereafter be brought to trial.
 Mr. Plumtre  stated, that the evidence of Mr. Sparrowe made a very unfavourable impression on the Committee.
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that the former petition presented by Mr. Bond explained why it was he had not been before the Committee, He left his home before any petition respecting the return had been presented to the House; but he returned on the 20th April, whilst the Committee were still sitting, and was known to be at home by all his neighbours: so that had it been thought necessary to have his evidence, he was ready to attend to any summons served upon him. On the 22nd April he had occasion to come to London, and in the coach with him was the hon. and learned Member for Ipswich (Mr. Wason). That hon. and learned Gentleman asked him whether he was going to London to give evidence in obedience to the Speaker's warrant; for that if he were, he could inform him that his attendance was unnecessary—that part of the case to which his evidence would relate being closed. It should be remembered, also, that Bond was not charged with bribery, but simply with evading the service of the Speaker's warrant, and that he did so guiltily was by no means clearly established. At all events, his punishment had already been very severe; for being in a humble situation of life, he had been unable to pay the gaol fees for private accommodation, and had been confined in the same ward with a felon who was under sentence of transportation for fourteen years. Surely the House would not allow him to remain longer in so painful a situation.
 Sir George Clerk  thought the parties referred to would give an assurance such as the hon. Gentleman mentioned when they came to the Bar.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that what was put by his hon. Friend the Member for Middlesex as supposition, was in his mind matter of certainty. Those men would not have been sent out of the way if they had not been able to explain something which the others could not. If Pilgrim alone had been able to state all the facts, he alone it would have been necessary to send away. The House could protect these persons against any ill consequences to themselves from the evidence they gave, and they ought not therefore to be discharged till they had disclosed the facts within their knowledge.
 Sir George Clerk  begged to observe, that there was no distinction between the present case and that first brought before the House.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose to order. He wished to call to the attention of the House the business upon which they were then engaged. They were discussing the case of two individuals adjudged by the House to have been guilty of an offence against its privileges. Now, if there was any occasion on which more than another the House, acting judicially, was bound to abstain from the discussion of any topic which might excite warm or angry feelings, surely it was upon such an occasion as the present, when the Speaker, as the organ of the House, was about to pronounce the opinion of the House with respect to the conduct of individuals who were upon the point of appearing at the
 1310
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the hon. and gallant Member's speech looked very like an aspersion on the characters of others—it certainly could not be called a defence f his own, for the alleged attack had never been made. He had said on the occasion referred to, and said distinctly, that he hoped and believed the hon. Member for Sligo was ignorant of the circumstance of an indictment having been preferred and ignored, and he certainly did not accuse the hon. Gentleman of wilfully suppressing any fact. At the same time, after the hon. Member's statement tonight, he was not sure that he was not ailed on to say, that he thought Mr. Hudson ill-treated by the hon. and gallant Gentleman in keeping from the House even now, the real facts of the case; and further, that some members of Mr. Hudson's own profession ought to have been more candid than they were with respect to the transaction. He did speak of an indictment having been preferred before a favourable Grand Jury—he did state that witnesses were examined, and that the Bill was ignored. He stated that he believed that Mr. Hudson was by name included in the Bill. But, before going further on this point, he had to fight the hon. and gallant Member in a sort of bye battle; it was true he had also stated, that he had reason to be displeased with Mr. Hudson, for although the Committee which acted for him had sent Mr. Hudson one day to argue a point, yet he stated, and truly, that Mr. Hudson refused to appear before the Commission. This was perfectly true. He had endeavoured to prevail on Mr. Hudson to attend the Commission for him, but he totally refused to do so. The day after he left town, a Mr. Hutton—not Mr. Hudson—did attend the Commission, and had attended it ever since as his counsel.—[Colonel  Perceval 1315 1316 1317
 Lord Stanley  rose for the purpose of expressing a hope, as upon the present occasion there seemed not to be the smallest disposition on the part of the House to throw any impediment in the way of the introduction of the Bill, that hon. Members would not continue a discussion which might prevent a fuller discussion hereafter, but delay their observations till the proper time came, which would afford the opportunity of entering fully into the debate. When that time arrived, as his noble Friend very well knew, he should be prepared to express his opinion on this Bill, and on the subject of the Appropriation more especially. He need not tell his noble Friend that he should give it every possible opposition in his power. He well knew the courage of his noble Friend and those with whom he was associated in bringing forward this measure, but he confessed that the boldness of the measure and its details did far exceed his most fearful anticipations. First of all, entering his protest against the Appropriation part of the Bill in principle—against almost every detail in reference to the Appropriation—also against the principle of doing away with the practicability of redemption—and, almost as much as any, against the power to re-open composition, which could not now after so many years be safely reopened—hewishedtoaskforexplanationon one or two points upon which he did not know whether or not he had accurately understood his noble Friend. First whether his noble Friend meant, that for the sum, such as it might be, which was in future to be appropriated to the clergy, the State was to make itself liable, without deduction, whatever its power might be of collection or to appropriate?
 Lord Stanley  then wished to know how far back his noble Friend meant to go with the power of collection?—next, from whom he purposed the collection should be made? he understood the noble Lord to say from the landlord. He knew the practical difficulty there would be in that, for he had considered the subject well, but did the noble Lord propose that the collection should be from the landlord at the head of the scale, or from the person immediately above the occupying tenant, and then so go on ascending in the scale? He asked that, in reference to those who
 1351 l. l. 1352
 Lord Stanley  hoped the noble Lord would pardon his interruption by asking upon that whether, supposing the head landlord discharged the tithes, he being then entitled to recover it from the intermediate person, it was intended he should be liable to the payment, which by no covenant he had before been liable to, and that he should afterwards have thrown upon him the trouble and expense of recovering it without any indemnification?
 Mr. Goulburn  wished to know whether in the numerous instances in which from four to five parishes were united, having a considerable Protestant congregation, though none of them, to the amount of fifty, and a regular incumbent, that incumbent should be superseded, and the produce applied to the funds they were about to raise?
 Mr. Law  had only presumed that Mr. Sparrowe's answers were satisfactory to the Committee, as the Committee had not stated that they were otherwise.
 Mr. Law  expressed his hope, that whatever conclusion the House might come to, it would not be founded on the argument of the hon. Member for Derbyshire. That hon. Member must have strange notions of what ought to be his conduct in a judicial capacity. The individual whose case the House was considering had been charged with bribery; but the guilt of that offence had not been brought home to him. That being the case, the hon. Member for Derbyshire used this irresistible argument: "I suspect a man of a crime which I cannot bring home to him; he has been convicted of one of a lighter description; although we cannot convict him of the first offence, let us, in punishing him for the second, recollect our suspicions that he is guilty of the first." The hon. Member for Westmeath had alleged as a reason for punishing Mr. Sparrowe, that he had not expressed in his petition any desire to afford further information in future. Now, Mr. Sparrowe had been twice examined before the Committee; and, notwithstanding; his conduct with respect to the Speaker's warrant, there was nothing in his testimony which laid him open to suspicion in other respects. He (Mr. Law) was not aware that the Committee had stated so; and, therefore, accustomed as he was to Courts of Justice, and to the principles by which those Courts were guided, he could not allow suspicion in his mind to fill up the void which the absence of proof occasioned, but must in charity presume that Mr. Sparrowe was innocent. The hon. Member for Bridport had asserted that Mr. Sparrowe's offence was a grave one, as he had abetted the others to abscond. But the hon. Gentleman ought to have stated what the nature of that abetting was. It consisted simply in a knowledge—a guilty knowledge, if the hon. Gentleman pleased—that it was the intention of those individuals to abscond. Let the House consider what kind of guilt this absconding was. The guilt consisted in agreeing to withdraw, lest some future petition might be presented to some future Committee, and at some future period the warrant of the Speaker might be issued for their attendance. Now this was an offence which,
 1300
 Mr. Law,  in explanation, observed, that Sparrowe, in his petition, stated, that in January last he had acted as agent, though without fee or reward, for the sitting Members, but that after the termination of the election he had acted, not as their agent, but only as their friend.
 Lord Henniker  moved, that J. E. Sparrowe be brought to the Bar, reprimanded and discharged.
 Lord John Russell  should, with regard to the case of Mr. Dasent, on which his hon. Friend had made a Motion, offer no resistance to that gentleman's discharge. His offence was absconding to avoid being
 1280
 Lord John Russell  thought, that the fact of Mr. Dasent having been examined before the Committee did make a difference. He would not say what ulterior steps should be taken, but with regard to the Question before them, if it came to the vote, he should be against now discharging this person.
 Lord John Russell  interposed, observing, that he should be the last person in the House to deny the right (whatever the irregularity of the opportunity chosen might be) of any Member to rise for the purpose of giving an explanation upon a point in which his personal character was concerned; but he would only put it to the discretion of the gallant Officer, whether he thought the present was an opportunity upon which the House was inclined to enter into the discussion of such a subject as that he was endeavouring to bring forward; and whether he would not deem it more advisable to avail himself of some other opportunity more in accordance with the orders of the House and more in accordance with the business before it.
 Lord John Russell  said, the right hon. Baronet had observed, that he would not enter on the present occasion into any of the details of the measure, yet in a small compass he had alluded to many details. In order to save time, he would not say a word with respect to that part of the measure which related to tithes. On a future occasion there would be sufficient opportunity to compare that part of it with the measure of last year, which failed in the other House, and with the subsequent proposition of the right hon. Gentleman opposite. He must, however, be allowed to make a few observations with respect to the hardships which it was said the present Bill would occasion to the clergy of Ireland. With respect, then, to the allotment of 5 l., l. l. l. 1358 l. l. l. 1359 1360
 Lord John Russell  moved that the reprimand be entered on the Journals.
 Lord John Russell  thought that the hon. and gallant Officer, after the observation he had just made, could not have heard a single word of what he (Lord John Russell) had stated. He (Lord John Russell) stated, that he should be the last man to refuse to any Member of the House an opportunity of making a statement upon a matter in which his personal character was concerned; but he asked the gallant Officer whether, upon reflection, he did not think he might take a better opportunity than the present for making such a statement. He certainly had not the least intention, and did not express any intention of refusing the gallant Gentleman the ordinary courtesy of the House, or of depriving him of the opportunity of making any statement he might deem necessary. He merely put it to the gallant Gentleman, as a matter for the exercise of his discretion—he did not ask the House to refuse to hear the gallant Gentleman.
 Colonel Perceval : If it be the wish of the House that I should not go into a statement which is necessary to the vindication of my own honour—[cries of " No, No
 Colonel Perceval  said, that if he thought the statement he proposed to make would be attended with any effect, such as was surmised by the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, he (Colonel Perceval) should be the last man to persist in making it. No person could be more reluctant than he should be to say anything or to take any course that could tend to prejudice the House, or any individual Member of it, against the parties who were about to appear at the Bar.
 Colonel Perceval  rose and said, if he could now prevail on the House to lend him its attention for a few moments, he should endeavour to show that he was not deserving of that severe censure which the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had recently endeavoured to cast on him, as well by the imputation of a discovered suppression of truth, as by the severe manner in which the denunciation was delivered. On the occasion referred to, his astonishment was indescribable when he heard the hon. and learned Gentleman get up and tax him with having withheld what he (Mr. O'Connell) stated to be a fact, and in relation to which he, in his utter astonishment, declared that if it were a fact, as the learned Gentleman declared it to be, that was the first time he had ever heard of it. The hon. and learned Member charged him with the concealment of what he called a fact, namely, that Mr. Hudson had had bills of indictment sent up against him before a Dublin Grand Jury, whose political bias was well known to be in accordance with his own views, and, added the learned Gentleman, "what will the House think when I tell them, that Mr. Hudson was acquitted by a Grand Jury such as those described? That all the witnesses who had given their evidence before the Committee in London, and who were believed where they were not known, when they were sent back to Dublin, where their characters were known—the wretches! were disbelieved even by an Orange Grand Jury." Those were the hon. and learned Gentleman's words. On hearing them his astonishment was so great, that he began to doubt his own recollection. He had felt astonished at the time that Mr. Hudson should not have been brought before the public after the Report of the Committee, and therefore the House might judge of his surprise when the hon. and learned Gentleman brought forward a detailed statement on the subject with all the solemnity which he was in the habit of drawing on in that House. He was now prepared to prove that the very reverse of the hon. and learned Gentleman's statement was throughout and in all parts correct. There were no bills of indictment whatever sent up against Mr. Hudson before a Grand Jury of the city or of the county of Dublin. In fact, there was no prosecution whatever instituted against Mr. Hudson arising out of the
 1312 suppressio veri. suppressio veri, 1313 O'Connell: quid pro quo,
 Colonel Perceval  again rose, and was again received with cries of "Order!" As he had before said, he felt it to be a
 1309
 Colonel Perceval  knew it to be his duty and it was always his inclination to pay the respect due to the Chair. But he put it to the Speaker and to the House at large, whether it was the custom of Parliament to refuse a Member an opportunity of explaining circumstances which, if left unexplained, might tend to lower his character in his place in that House. The hon. and gallant Officer was proceeding to make some further observations which the general confusion rendered inaudible. At length.
 Colonel Perceval  then said, that before any further steps were taken in these proceedings, he trusted to the courtesy of the House to be allowed to draw its attention to an occurrence which took place in the presence, he believed, of all whom he had now the honour of addressing. He did so, not for the purpose of directing any special attack against the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, but that the House might draw a just conclusion from the circumstances of the case. When he, in the discharge of what he thought his duty, stated that which had come to his
 1308
 Colonel Perceval  again rose, but was received with loud cries of "Chair."
 Mr. Hawes  contended, that the hon. Member for Wallingford (Mr. Blackstone) had very unfairly stated the evidence as given before the Committee, with respect to the character of Mr. Pilgrim; for it had been admitted that the Members of the firm by which he was employed gave him the most active support when he stood a candidate for the Coronership, although this event occurred long subsequent to the time of the Commission of the offence with which he had been charged.
 Mr. Hawes  rose to move that Mr. Pilgrim be called to the Bar, with the view to his being discharged. He said, all that the House had to consider in the case of that individual was, the act of his absconding to avoid the service of the Speaker's warrant; they had nothing to do with the conflicting statements of opposite parties. He did not think that it was necessary for him to enter minutely into the circumstances of the case, but that he might safely leave it to the clemency of the House. The individual in question stated in the petition which
 1290 1291
 Mr. Hawes  observed, that Pilgrim stated himself to have received it from Messrs. Sewell and Blake—that is to say from their House, he obtaining it from the hands of their cashier.
 Mr. Hawes  read an extract from the petition of Pilgrim, to show that he had acted entirely by the direction of Messrs. Sewell and Blake.
 Mr. Charles Barclay  admitted, that it was their duty to look not so much to the respectability of the individuals concerned, as to the weight of the evidence; but he contended, that Messrs. Sewell and Blake were in nowise implicated.
 Mr. Charles Barclay  observed, that if
 1297
 Mr. Charles A. Walker  would not have said one word but for the observations which had been made from the opposite side of the House. But as a Protestant Member, he begged to return his best and warmest thanks to the noble Lord, and to his Majesty's Ministers, for bringing in a measure which would not injure the Protestant religion, but must materially serve it. He believed that, looking to past experience, Protestantism in Ireland would diminish, and that Church would cease to be the Established Church. He thanked the Government for this measure, which he hailed as a boon to the people of Ireland, because, if any thing could christianise the Church, it was a measure like this. Hon. Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House seemed to claim to themselves the exclusive representation of the Protestants of Ireland; but he would say, that he and others on that (the Ministerial) aide were the persons who really represented the Protestants of Ireland, though they did not represent the Orange faction. If that measure, or one of equal efficiency, were postponed, the collection of tithes in Ireland as well as the Church itself would be gone for ever. It had been stated, that the plan on which the noble Lord proceeded was altogether inapplicable to the state of Ireland; but he (Mr. Walker) knew a case in his own neighbourhood in which the clergyman of one parish received the sum of 4 l.
 Mr. Harvey  remarked, that in his opinion the House had nothing whatever to do with a matter of dispute, whether of a civil or a criminal character, between the firm of Messrs. Sewell and Blake and their clerk. The House had already consented that Mr. Dasent, the Barrister, should be dismissed. On what ground could they refuse to accede to the same
 1295 1296 s.
 Mr. Harvey  could not help thinking that the votes of the House would be more intelligible and more expressive of the truth, if, when published to-morrow morning, it were found stated in them, that at half-past five in the afternoon a process was gone through to show how contempt of the House could be made easy. Members were called upon in their judicial capacity to decide upon the case of a prisoner, when not one in ten could know any thing about the matter. Two charges had been spoken of in the discussion; first, that the petitioner, being a necessary witness before a tribunal appointed by the House, had kept out of the way that he might not be summoned; and for this, having undergone the very serious punishment of a few days imprisonment, he was to be reprimanded with all the courtesy of language the Speaker was known to possess, and then to be discharged. The second charge was, that the prisoner had been guilty of bribery, and, therefore, that he ought to be prosecuted by the Attorney-General. Of the second charge he would say nothing: it was a distinct substantive accusation which would be dealt with, he had almost said by a higher tribunal, but certainly higher as regarded its power of punishment. As to the first charge, the contempt, it seemed to him that in the degree in which the powers of the House were defective, ought to be its care to guard its privileges by the severity of
 1281 1282 subpœna 1283 1284 1285 1286
 Mr. Wodehouse  did not rise to oppose the Motion but simply to perform an act of justice towards Messrs. Sewell and Blake, in stating that they most distinctly denied the truth of Mr. Pilgrim's statement in reference to the permission which he alleged to have been given by them to him, for absenting himself, beyond the journey to Ipswich. He had lately had a conversation with Mr. Money their cashier in which he learnt that the 20 1. 1292
 Mr. Wodehouse  was most desirous to be understood, in the few remarks which he had addressed to the House, as not wishing to oppose the discharge of Mr. Pilgrim, but merely to defend Messrs. Sewell and Blake from the imputation which appeared to be cast on them.
 [Mr. Shaw  rose, and was about to address the House, when an hon. Member on the Opposition side suggested that the House should now proceed with the business upon the paper.]
 Mr. Shaw  said, that the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had charged him with having, when the subject was last before the House, suppressed a fact of which he (Mr. Shaw) was cognizant. Now, upon that occasion he, speaking not positively, but to the best of his belief, made a statement of facts which had, from the explanation given that night, turned out to be precisely accurate. After the hon. and learned Member for Dublin charged his hon. and gallant Friend with the suppression of the fact that Mr. Hudson had been indicted, and that the indictment had failed, he (Mr. Shaw) stood up and stated that he believed bills had been preferred against some of the parties, but that no bill had been presented against Mr. Hudson; and such turned out to be the fact. Now, as to the reason why no bill was preferred against Mr. Hudson, he wished to say nothing that could operate injuriously to that gentleman, and, therefore, would speak with the utmost delicacy; but the fact was, that the Government of that day was favourably disposed towards the unseated Members in whose interest Mr. Hudson had acted; and, as those who were considered the Representatives of the opposite party felt no desire to prosecute, the matter was allowed to drop. The circumstance of Mr. Hudson having escaped prosecution, did not, however, fail to attract considerable attention, and he was frequently requested to bring the subject under the notice of the House, but he had uniformly refused to do so. The general understanding was, that as regarded Mr. Hudson, the matter was allowed to drop by the Government, and the less the subject was pressed, as regarded Mr. Hudson, the better. With respect to the names of Hutton and Hudson—
 Mr. Shaw  could not allow the Bill to be introduced without entering his warmest and most earnest protest against it. The question involved in it was of the most vital importance, and which, if not speedily settled, would leave no security for property. The state in which the Irish Clergy were placed was such as he would not harrow the feelings of the House by describing. If Government had properly asserted the dignity of the law four years ago in Ireland, the settlement of this question would not be a matter of such difficulty. If they had proceeded with the same vigour with which they appeared to undertake this Bill, circumstances in Ireland would now bear a different aspect. The law had been asserted in Ireland, and order had been restored; but when Lord Althorp announced that no further tithes should be collected, the police, who on one day had put up one notice, were the next day to be seen putting up another of a different tendency, and the authority of the law was at an end. There was one point which he was desirous of impressing upon the House; namely, that the Clergy of Ireland, whatever might be their suffering, were a body of men whose integrity was not to be corrupted; and he would tell the noble Lord that nothing could induce them to forego their paramount duty, or abandon the work for which they had been appointed. They would accept of no personal or temporary relief at the expense of any principle which to them appeared subversive of the Established Church in Ireland. They never could forget the language of the dignified Prelate who presided at a meeting held some time since in Ireland, and who, in stating the sentiments of the clergy of that country, said that they were prepared to sacrifice every personal consideration, even life itself, for the preservation of the Church. The time was now come when the question was to be decided whether there should or should not be an Established Church. If there was to be no Establishment, let the determination be fairly and
 1348 l. 1349
 Mr. Grote  could assure the House that he would be the last person to bring forward any measure bearing upon the hon. Gentleman or his friends, if the legal tribunal were easy of approach. It was not because they were unable to prove the charges, but because they were in want of the necessary funds. The petition was numerously and respectably signed, and was presented simply with a view of adopting means to vindicate the purity of election. The only reason why he had any objection to move that this matter be referred to a Select Committee was, that he was personally overcharged with Committee business; and that it would be impossible for him to attend to it. But if any other Gentleman should think fit to originate the Motion, it should receive his most cordial support.
 Mr. Grote  presented a Petition, signed by 1,350 persons of Great Yarmouth, praying for the Ballot, in consequence of the scenes of drunkenness and riot which were seen at the last election, and stating that the corrupt voters who gave their votes for the sitting Members had been rewarded with two guineas a-piece. He moved that the petition be brought up.
 Mr. Aglionby  rose to order. He understood the Motion before the House to be that two individuals should be brought to the Bar to receive the judgment of the House. What possible foundation that could afford to the gallant Officer to bring forward another question, respecting another person not before the House, and upon a matter which took place on a former night, he (Mr. Aglionby) was at a loss to conceive.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that if the distinction was so clear, he for one should be quite willing to spare the House the trouble of considering the case on Monday, by discharging the petitioner to-night. For the sake of keeping him in prison three or four-days, it was not worth while to postpone the matter. Indeed that course would only be justifiable upon the supposition that it might then be thought desirable to keep him in confinement a great length of time after. If, however, he was not now to be discharged, it was desirable that information should be given to the House, in a subsequent petition, respecting one or two points referred to in that now before the House. Indeed, upon one of these points it would be proper for the House, if it had the power, immediately to act, by making an order, which should relieve the petitioner immediately from what he considered a very great hardship. He stated in his petition, that he was confined in the same ward with a convicted felon. Now, if an order to change his place of confinement could not be made, he hoped the gaoler of Newgate would take notice that it was the general feeling of the House that a person committed to his custody, even for the high offences of corrupting the purity of elections and violating the privileges of that House, should not be confined in the same cell with felons. He thought this was the general feeling of the House. He said nothing about the different situations in life of the parties thus thrown together, but it must be quite clear that men such as Bond, Cooke, and Clamp ought not to be compelled to sleep in the same room with a person convicted of felony by a jury of his country, and lying in prison under a sentence of transportation. The other point to which he wished to call the attention of the House was this, that Bond Stated in his petition that his health was impaired by his imprisonment. Now, if this was the fact—and it could be established on the testimony of any medical man—it would go far with him to support the Motion to have the petitioner discharged.
 Sir Henry Hardinge : Where then was the justice of the arrangement, if it was merely retrospective. Where was the justice of fixing the number retrospectively at fifty. But he should not enter into the details. The Bill was of a character which he would undertake to say, when it was known in the country, would be found to have exceeded the worst predictions of the worst enemies of the Church, and it never would become an Act of the Legislature.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, that at that late hour, he should best consult the wishes of the House by pursuing the course adopted by the noble Lord (the Secretary of State for the Home Department) towards the Bill introduced by him (Sir Henry Hardinge), when he did not oppose the Resolution on the introduction of the Bill, on the understanding, that no Member by not opposing the Resolution, lent himself to the principle or the details of the measure. He should,
 1345 l. l. 1346
 Mr. Warburton  thought this case worse than those of Dasent and Pilgrim, for they did give evidence before the Election Committee, whereas the petitioner Bond had taken care to give none at all.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that Dasent, according to his own confession, evaded the service of the process of the House, under most aggravating circumstances. He had admitted himself, that he had evaded giving his evidence so long as it was wanted for the general purposes of justice, but he did come forward when he thought his evidence might be of service to his own particular friends. The hon. and learned Member for Southwark had adverted to the manner in which courts of justice visited a party with punishment who previously withdrew himself from the service of the process of those Courts. If an individual neglected to attend to give evidence in an action, the party who subpœnaed him as a witness might proceed against him by action to recover all the costs in the suit, and damages to the extent to which the party had lost by his absence. That was one mode. The other was, whether a party suffered by a witness's absence or not, if the Court chose to proceed against him by attachment, he
 1288 sine die,
 Mr. Warburton  was also of opinion that the case of Mr. Sparrowe and the remaining cases were very different from the cases already brought before the House. In the former, the charge was for absconding to avoid the Speaker's warrant; and the persons so charged appeared before the Committee. Of the other parties, three never appeared before the Committee. The two avowed agents for the sitting members, of whom Mr. Sparrowe was one, and Mr. O'Malley aided and abetted the others in keeping out of the way, and
 1299
 The Speaker  wished to know whether it was the desire of the House that Mr. Pilgrim and Mr. Dasent should now be called to the Bar and be reprimanded?
 The Speaker  said, he had gathered the wish of the House to be, not to proceed further with these cases that night.
 The Speaker  said, it certainly appeared to him that upon a simple Motion that two persons should be brought to the Bar of the House for the purpose of being discharged, it was extremely inconvenient, not to say irregular, to interpose any observations upon a different and a separate subject.
 The Speaker  addressed them and said:—"John Bury Dasent and John Pilgrim, this House has found that you have been guilty of the crime of violating one of its most important and most valuable privileges, by absconding, for the purpose of avoiding the duty of giving that testimony which you were bound unquestionably to give, for the purpose of the due administration of justice. It must be unnecessary to any class of persons in this country to enlarge upon the importance of, at all times, yielding a prompt and willing obedience to those privileges which this House holds for the benefit of the people, and as their representatives. It must be, least of all, necessary to enlarge upon the nature of that offence to a gentleman whose professional habits and education must have made him more peculiarly acquainted with the nature of those obligations which are imposed upon all classes to contribute to the furtherance of public justice. You have, however, both of you, made that atonement which is in your power, by an expression of your sorrow and your contrition for the offence of which you have been guilty. This House has taken your petitions into its favourable consideration; it has dealt with you with all the mildness consistent with their sense of justice, and I have now to acquaint you that you are discharged, upon the payment of your fees."
 The Speaker  said, that an opportunity
 1318
 Mr. Freshfield  begged to be allowed to call the hon. Member for Derbyshire to order. The hon. Member was attempting to prove, that because it was a doubtful question whether Mr. Sparrowe was guilty of one offence (that of bribery), the House should inflict a greater degree of punishment on him for a charge which was then under the consideration of the House.
 Mr. Freshfield : But there is no such charge against Mr. Sparrowe in the report.
 Mr. Hardy  said, it appeared that Dasent had taken an active part in the illegal practices which had been discovered in the course of this investigation; and if the House should be of opinion that he absented himself in order to avoid criminating himself, they would treat him as other individuals were treated, who absented themselves to escape detection. If he absented himself to obstruct the course of justice, and to screen others, the House would treat him with greater severity. He should feel it is duty to vote that the Attorney-General be instructed to prosecute Dasent for the graver offence; and he should vote for this Motion on the understanding that the House would take that course.
 Mr. Wilks  said, that it appeared to him that all the House had now to do was to determine upon the petitions already on the Table. He should not think it discreet for the House to pledge itself directly or indirectly as to the future course of its proceedings. One great objection to the discharge of this petitioner, and of those who stood in the same situation with him, was, that they had not made those communications to the House which had been made by three of the petitioners, whom it had been agreed should be liberated after receiving a reprimand. If, in any petition to be hereafter presented Mr. Bond and his associates should put themselves in a
 1307
 Mr. Hume  begged to make a suggestion to the hon. Member which might save him trouble. Mr. O'Malley's petition was presented before he was sent to Newgate; and he believed it to be an invariable rule not to liberate any one from prison on a petition presented before his confinement.
 Mr. Hume : To show that the Committee had expressed dissatisfaction at the manner in which Sparrowe had conducted himself, he referred to a passage in the minutes of evidence, where it appeared that after two or three evasive answers, on being asked on his solemn oath, if he had the least doubt that Cooke committed bribery in Ipswich, Mr. Pollock objected to the question, and the Chairman said, "The Committee are not satisfied with this not recollection,' and ' not of his own knowledge.'"
 Mr. Hume  wished it to be remembered that these three men came before them after the trial, in which their evidence might have been of value to the public, was over. They might, perhaps, have given important evidence relative to the bribery in which they were engaged, and they now came before the House for pardon without even professing willingness to make the communication, to avoid making which they committed the offence laid to their charge. He hoped, therefore, that the Motion would be withdrawn till Mon- 1304
 Mr. Hume  hoped that the noble Lord would not be alarmed. It was quite absurd to say at the present day, that a Church should not be suited to the wants of the people. A line must be drawn, and his Majesty's Government had attempted to draw a line. Looking to the principle of the noble Lord, he thought no measure could be more equitable. If the right hon. Gentleman quarrelled with the 5 l. 1347 l.
 Mr. Hume  seconded the Motion, and said, that there was a distinction to be made between this case and that of Mr. Dasent, which had last occupied the attention of the House. Mr. Dasent had been acting on his own responsibility; but the individual whose case was now before them, was an old and faithful servant, who had only acted in obedience to the orders of his employers. As an agent he was guilty, but his guilt did not go to the same extent as that of an individual acting on his own responsibility and his own knowledge. He would not say any thing now upon the Question of the bribery; that would be better deferred until hon. Members were placed in a situation to judge of it correctly by having read the evidence.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, that he was prepared to obviate that objection, for he had in his hand a second petition from Mr. O'Malley, which he would now beg to present.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, that he had given notice of his intention to move the House on behalf of Mr. O'Malley, whose case was essentially different from that of any of the other petitioners. In the first place, he was not at all concerned in the Ipswich election.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  was sure that the House would agree with the noble Lord the Member for Northumberland on the expediency of shortening the discussion as much as possible; but the plan proposed by the noble Lord would not obviate the objection which many entertained to the discharge of the petitioners, on account of their never having been examined at all. What he would suggest, therefore; was this, that on Monday the petitioners might, if they thought fit, present other petitions, expressing their readiness, as the others had done, to attend at any time to give their fair and unreserved testimony to the House. That being done, the House might perhaps feel itself justified in applying to them a sentence similar to that which had been agreed to be passed upon the first petitioners who had been before them that night.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  said, that if it had been thought necessary for other petitioners who had been examined before the Committee to give an assurance in their petitions that they were ready to give evidence on the subject, much more so was it necessary in the case of a man who had not been examined at all. The precedent so often referred to in the Camelford case was again in point here. The petitioner there staled that he had been ill; that he had suffered greatly by his imprisonment; and that he should be ready to attend at any time with a full determination to give evidence. A similar pledge or offer should be exacted from Bond, Clamp, and Clipperton before they were discharged.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  thought, that the petition of Messrs. Sewell and Blake did not coincide on material points with the evidence taken before the Committee. He would give one specimen, which was quite conclusive. In the petition, Mr. Keith stated "that after an admission by Pilgrim, of the truth of the charge of embezzlement against him, and earnestly imploring forgiveness, the said Thomas Moore Keith dismissed him from the employment of the firm, and told him distinctly that they should be obliged to prosecute him, and as soon as he set his foot in Norwich, they should apply to the Mayor for a warrant for his apprehension." In his evidence given before the Committee, Mr. Keith says that when he was at Calais, tie did not recommend Pilgrim to come
 1294
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down was mistaken with regard to the opinion of the Committee respecting Sparrowe, who had been three times examined, and with whose information the Committee were far from being satisfied. He wished the hon. and learned Member had applied his judicial mind to alter the impression which had been made on the Committee upon this subject. It appeared by Mr. Sparrowe's statement, not that he had merely a bare knowledge, as the hon. and learned Gentleman had intimated, but that he had an intimate knowledge of the departure of Arthur Bott Cooke, and a knowledge of the departure of Pilgrim. In no way in his petition did Sparrowe offer to come forward and give further evidence on the subject. In his decided opinion, therefore, a better and more satisfactory petition ought to be presented by the individual in question before he should be entitled to his discharge.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  rose to call the attention of the House to the Petition of John Bury Dasent. He would not trouble the House with any statement, as the nature and history of the case must be fully in the recollection of hon. Members. He meant to move for the discharge of the petitioner, because he stated his contrition for offending against the privileges of the House, but principally because he expressed his willingness to come forward at any time to give fully and freely his testimony respecting all the circumstances connected with the Ipswich Election within his knowledge. He had no wish himself but that every fact should be disclosed, and that all persons who were capable of giving evidence on matters relating to such important interests should be kept within reach, that hereafter they might be made to divulge all they knew. The Motion, however, for the discharge of Mr. Dasent was supported by all the precedents of former proceedings on similar occasions; the dignity and character of the House had been vindicated, and the petitioner had already endured a longer imprisonment than had before been inflicted upon any individual who had committed the same offence. It was now time, therefore, to relieve Newgate from some of its burthens. At the same time he would keep the parties within reach, although he would allow them to have their liberty that they might discharge their duties to their families, which, in some cases, were pressing. He moved that John Bury Dasent, Esq. be brought to the Bar, in order to be discharged.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  said, that the hon. Member for Southwark, who had just resumed his seat, had misstated the Motion he had made. He had before said, that he wished the House to limit the punishment to the crime of which Dasent stood convicted, and he did not think it necessary to anticipate the punishment which he would probably receive for another alleged crime. The crime of which he was convicted was simply an evasion of the summons of the House, and when he came to look to the precedents, he found that the punishments for similar offences had seldom equalled, and had never exceeded, the punishment which Dasent had undergone. His Motion was simply that this person should be called to the Bar; he was anxious that Dasent and all the other offenders should
 1287
 Mr. Rigby Wason  considered that the allegations were of too serious a nature to be disposed of by mere denial. The petitioners stated, that since the fourteen days expired, and, within a short time after the expiration, two guineas had been paid as head-money. Surely the hon. Member might have informed the House whether such a payment had been made or not. The House ought to know whether such an allegation were well or ill founded; and the hon. Member was perfectly aware, that after the fourteen days, no petition could be presented under the Bribery Act against his election; still the facts were serious, and he (Mr. Wason) had heard of them three weeks ago.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  hoped that the hon. Member for the city of London would move for a Select Committee.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  alluded to the denial of the hon. Member for Norfolk, of his assertion that Mr. Keith was more guilty than Mr. Blake, and said that the hon. Member had attempted to refute his assertion by saying that he had seen, not Mr. Keith, but Mr. Clipperton. If the hon. Member had taken the pains to read two pages of the evidence given by Mr. Keith before the Committee, he would find a full justification for its being said that Mr. Keith knew that Pilgrim was going abroad for the sake of avoiding the service of the writ. Would it not be extraordinary that the managing clerk of such an establishment should be allowed to absent himself for a period of some length without the knowledge of his employers, and without exciting any inquiry on their part? It was said that the statement of Pilgrim was contradicted by that of Messrs. Sewell and Blake. The case was not so. The material part of Pilgrim's assertion that he had received the 20 l. l. l. l.,
 Mr. Wason  said, that since the right hon. Member for Edinburghshire had had the indiscretion to make the statement the House had just heard, he (Mr. Wason) would inform the House of a circumstance connected with it which would not otherwise have passed his lips. During the whole of the proceedings, Mr. Clipperton, the agent of his opponents, had repeatedly said, that he should put the petitioners to every shilling of expense he could. Knowing this, he (Mr. Wason), when he travelled up in the coach on the occasion alluded to with the agent Bond and Bristo (the Bailiff of the Borough), he began the conversation by asking the Bailiff whether he was going to London with him, and his answer was, Yes, for that it was at the expense of the petitioners. He (Mr. Wason) endeavoured to show the injustice of this, as the witness had been examined on the first day; but the answer was, that
 1303
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  hoped, the House would discharge him that very night. The man had done wrong, but he had acknowledged his error, and had been
 1306
 Mr. Thomas Baring  said, that some hon. Members appeared to be very anxious to have Committees, but as there had been no charge made against him in the regular form, he considered himself virtually acquitted.
 Mr. Thomas Baring  said, that he should only make the answer he had already made, but he was ready to meet any charge that might be brought before any Committee.
 Mr. Thomas Baring  said, with regard to the charges of the petitioners, he had only to make this answer, that no one should make these charges slightly or inconsiderately. If advisedly, the parties ought to bring proofs, and establish the case, as an act of duty to the country and to the House of Commons. But if they failed to make use of the legal remedy, and reserved the opportunity of making these insinuations and  ex-parte 1276
 Mr. Gisborne  did not mean to oppose the Motion, but after the part he had taken in the business, it was perhaps right for him to state in what way the evidence bore upon the case of Mr. Dasent. He would also state the principal ground which would induce him to consent to his discharge—a ground that had not been touched on by the hon. Member. The hon. Member referred to some of the circumstances which were given in evidence before the Ipswich Committee, to show that Mr. Dasent had purposely kept
 1279
 Mr. Gisborne  said, that no man of common understanding could read the evidence given before the Committee without coming to the conclusion that Mr. Blake knew perfectly well of Pilgrim's absence.
 Mr. Gisborne  allowed that the hon. Member was right; but if anyone who read the evidence could doubt of Mr. Sparrowe's moral guilt, he (Mr. Gisborne) neither desired nor expected that he would join in the support of his Motion, upon which he certainly relied with some confidence. He should certainly resist the Motion that J. E. Sparrowe should be discharged.
 Mr. Gisborne  resumed. The jurisdiction of the House was not restricted within the limits to which the hon. Member, by whom he had been called to order, would confine it. It could not be questioned that their jurisdiction extended to the consideration of the case of those who had been reported as guilty of bribery.
 Mr. Gisborne  felt bound to oppose the Motion of the noble Lord. He should do so on what he considered strong grounds. The first was, that it appeared that the Messrs. Sparrowe and a person of the name of Gross, having been partners and agents for Mr. Dundas, the son of Mr. Gross wrote to one of the Sparrowes, who was on the Continent at the time the Ipswich Election Committee first assembled, saying, "Do not move an inch until further orders, as they may go into a scrutiny." This must have been written with the cognizance of Mr. Sparrowe. There were abundant other grounds on which the discharge of Mr. Sparrowe might be fairly resisted. He would only mention one. It must be clear to any person who had dispassionately read the evidence, that Mr. Sparrowe was at the bottom of all the bribery and corrupt practices which had taken place at Ipswich; though, from the caution with which he had acted, it might be a matter of doubt whether guilt could be legally established against him. He should, therefore, oppose his discharge, for the purpose of allowing the Attorney-General and other Members of that House skilled in the law, time to determine whether a prosecution for bribery could be successfully maintained against him.
 Mr. Walter Campbell,  having been a Member of the Committee, was bound to say that he thought there were mitigating circumstances in the case of Mr. Dasent. He would therefore support the Motion.
 Mr. Blackstone  observed, that it appeared that Keith had had a communication with Pilgrim; and though, during their interview, some acts of bribery were mentioned, Keith said, that he knew nothing about such matters, and advised Pilgrim to consult his own adviser, Mr. Jay, on the subject. He must also be permitted to say, that Pilgrim's character was not in the eyes of his employers perfectly untainted before the transaction occurred out of which the recent prosecutions were instituted against him; for it appeared in evidence that he had at a very early period of his life, committed himself though his employers had consented to overlook his offence. His subsequent conduct naturally recalled to their mind a circumstance at the outset of his career in life which could not be considered but as a reproach on his character.
 Sir Broke Vere  said, that there was nothing in evidence against Bond, except that he had absented himself from home to evade the service of the Speaker's order, for which offence he had been confined for a fortnight in Newgate, in the same ward with a convicted felon, from his inability to pay the gaol fees. Considering the limited extent of his guilt, he thought this should be considered a sufficient punishment, and that the House should now temper justice with mercy.
 Sir Broke Vere  moved, that John Bond be reprimanded and discharged.
 Sir Broke Vere  begged to be allowed to withdraw his Motion till Monday.
 Mr. Ward  rose to order. The House had, in courtesy to the hon. and gallant Member for Sligo, allowed him to vindicate himself from a personal charge, and, naturally enough, had afterwards listened to the explanation of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. He submitted, however, that as there was now no question before the House, the right hon. Gentleman was out of order in addressing it.
 Sir John Hobhouse  rose to order. The right hon. Gentleman seemed to intimate, that he had something to say in his own vindication, and upon that ground the House had listened to him. The right
 1319
 Mr. Jervis  said, that the submission of the other petitioners went the length of waiving the privilege of self-protection in the answers they gave.
 Mr. Jervis  did not think that the explanation of the hon. and learned Gentleman made the case at all better. Whether agent or friend, Sparrowe's conduct in aiding and abetting individuals to keep out of the way, in order to avoid being served with the Speaker's warrant, was equally culpable. But it was impossible to believe that he could have done that which he did merely as a friend. If any one thing tended more than another to show that the House was not in a condition to discharge Sparrowe, it was the speech which had been made by the hon.
 1301
 Mr. Jervis  thought with the hon. Member for Dublin, that the best plan would be to refer the petition to a Select Committee, not with any view of involving the Members in difficulties, but because he thought the petition referred to a matter of extreme importance.
 Sir John Wrottesley  begged to remind the hon. Member that one reason why the charge had not been made in the regular form was, because the given period (fourteen days) allowed by Act of Parliament had expired, and another reason was, the enormous expense attending election petitions. He trusted that the allegations would be contradicted if not true; but he was bound to state that be had heard from several quarters on which he could place much reliance, that within three weeks after the election, two guineas head-money was paid in Great Yarmouth, and from whence that money came he would leave others to conjecture. There was a Bill before the House now respecting the county town of the county he represented, and he hoped the House would deal equal justice to all.
 Sir John Wrottesley  wished the matter to be postponed, in order that he might have time to read at least a part of the voluminous evidence which had been laid before them respecting it.
 Mr. Montague Chapman  said, that if Dasent had been guilty of corruption on the largest scale, the observations of the hon. Member for Southwark might have been called for, but as his offences were limited in number he thought the hon. Member had pressed very severely on a very young man. He did not wish to indulge in what the hon. and learned Gentleman called whining sympathy; but he thought that any sort of whining sympathy was preferable to language so severe as that which the hon. and learned Member had used against an individual whose case he was confessedly unacquainted with Dasent and Pilgrim had offered to come to the Bar and state fully and frankly every thing that might be required of them. Under these circumstances he should support the Motion of his hon. Friend.
 Mr. Montague Chapman  observed, that the case of Mr. Sparrowe was very different from the cases of which the House had already disposed. When before the Committee he had shown no disposition to give full evidence on the subject; and in his petition he had not expressed any readiness to come forward at a future time and give further testimony.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that on account of the advanced period of the night, he should not detain the House many minutes. As he wished to see this Bill in a printed form, he should abstain from entering into any observation on its details. The Bill, he apprehended, in two important elements of it, was nearly conformable in principle to the Bill which was introduced by his right hon. Friend. As far as regarded the remission of the million, which had been advanced, he entirely concurred in the provisions of the Bill. He believed the difficulty of recovering the arrear of tithes would now be so great that there was nothing to be done but to remit that amount; not, however, to the clergy, not to the Established Church, but to the landlords. It was not that it was to be remitted to the Church, but to the landlords of Ireland; because it would be a mockery to call on the clergy for repayment without giving them the means of recovering it again from the occupying tenants. He hoped, therefore, the fact would not be mistaken. The remission was a  bonus bonus 1354 l. l., 1. l. l. 1355 l. l. l. 1356 l. Morpeth: l. l. l. l. 1357
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, he could not see what valid objection there was to allowing the Motion to be withdrawn, when all the hon. Mover wished to do was to bring it again before the House on Monday with fuller information.
 Viscount Howick  said, that before the Motion was withdrawn he thought it right that a clear understanding should be come to with regard to the course they should hereafter pursue, in order that as little time as possible should be consumed in the discussion of this case. If, therefore, the hon. Baronet merely withdrew the Motion now for the purpose of making a similar Motion on Monday, he thought it would be more conducive to the convenience of the House if the hon. Baronet would now move that Bond be brought to the Bar on Monday next. By this means they should be able then to decide, without a fresh debate, whether the time for discharging Bond had or had not arrived. For his own part he was not sufficiently acquainted with the case to have formed a very strong opinion respecting it; but as far as he could judge he was disposed to say that on Monday next Bond should be discharged. He drew a very decided distinction between this case and, the
 1305
 Lord Morpeth  said, that his noble Friend had understood him correctly in taking that in the affirmative.
 Lord Morpeth  said, they should come upon the immediate occupying tenant, the amount being deducted from the rent. He had certainly distinctly said, that the suspending powers of this Bill applied not to benefices, but to parishes. With reference to the case which had been put by his noble Friend of the three parishes, in pursuance with the principle of the Bill, they would certainly think themselves authorized to declare, that in any parish where there was not a sufficient number of Protestants, the emoluments arising from that parish should cease, except in certain cases, where they might deem it right to make a special provision that the suspension should not take place; if the Lord-lieutenant, for instance, should withhold his consent to it, in such cases. 58,000 l. 1353 l. l.
 Lord Morpeth  said, he would very briefly answers the questions put to him by his noble Friend. In answer to the first question, he did not propose a revision of all agreements with reference to the commutation of tithes, but still some of them were open to revision. He believed he would secure the object they had in view without involving himself in any of the difficulties anticipated by his noble Friend. In answer to the second question, he proposed to recover from the head landlord, and if they did not succeed they would descend till they got to the occupying tenant.
 Lord Morpeth : It may well be conceded to me, in rising to bring forward a Motion, professing to have for its object the settlement of Irish Tithes, and the future regulation of the Irish Church Establishment, that to bespeak the usual, and more than usual, indulgence and forbearance of the House is not to use mere words of course, or to preface my speech with an unmeaning common-place. For, when I recall, and when the House remembers, in the first place, the inherent difficulties and complexities of the subject itself, the numerous experiments through which it has wandered, and the various aspects which it has, from time to time, assumed, when we consider, further, the industry, the perseverance, and the ability, which have, from so many quarters, been sucessively brought to bear upon it, but which, great and laudable as they have
 1320 1321 1322 l., l. l. l. l. 1323 1324 bonus l, 1325 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1326 bonus l. l. l. s l. l. s l. l. s. 1327 1. 1328 1329 bonus 1330 1331 1332 1333 l. * * 1334 l. l. 1. l. preceding the 1st February, 1833, to appoint to the incumbent or officiating minister of the parish adjoining such suspended benefice, such moderate stipend as they, associated with the Bishop of the diocese, shall think fit in consideration of the occasional Ecclesiastical duties he may have to perform in such suspended benefice." See Sect: 117, 3 and 4 Will. 4, chap: 37. By the first Report of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, ordered to be printed by the House of Commons, 31st March, 1835, they state, that stipends varying from four to twenty-five pounds yearly have been appointed to the incumbents or officiating ministers of the parishes adjoining those benefices which have been suspended under the Act, 1335 l. * l. l. * l. † Where there is no church in a suspended parish, it is intended that the school-house shall be used for the purposes of divine worship; or that a room in the glebe-house, if any, shall be set apart for the purpose; or if neither of these accommodations can be afforded, that a place of worship be erected at a cost of 100 l. l. 1336 "Of such plain roofs as piety can raise; And only vocal to their Maker's praise." pro hâc vice. l. l. 1337 1338 1339
 Lord Morpeth  observed, that the calculation was retrospective. The measure would only operate on those parishes in which, according to the Report on the Table, the number of the Protestants did not exceed fifty.
 Lord Morpeth  was understood to say that he had precedents in the case of the Irish Tithe Bill, and also in that of the English Tithe Bill of 1832, to warrant the course he had pursued that night.
 Lord Morpeth  was understood to say, that those cases would certainly come under the operation of the Act, unless the Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland thought circumstances justified the contrary. With respect to the other details of the Bill, he hoped hon. Members would forbear canvassing them till the measure was before the House.
 Lord Stormont  begged to say that, from all he had heard of Mr. Pilgrim, at Norwich, he believed him to be a most respectable man.
 Lord Stormont  remarked, that Messrs. Sewell and Blake, in their petition, declared that Pilgrim received the money without their knowledge. He (Lord Stormont) begged to add, that Messrs. Sewell and Blake were persons of the highest respectability. He should like to hear any Gentleman in that House say that they were not. Would that hon. Member who cheered him say that they were not? Their characters were not thus to be taken away in that House by such cheers. Those Gentlemen were known to be engaged in extensive business in the counties of Norfolk, Suffolk, Essex, Cambridge, Lincoln, &c, and not a shadow of a doubt existed as to their high respectability. If any imputations were to be made upon it, he trusted that they would be made in a direct manner.
 Lord Stormont  did not think it fair towards Messrs. Sewell and Blake that the statements made concerning them should go forth without comment. The hon. Member asked whether it was on account of the 20 l. 1293
 Mr. Oswald  presented a Petition from Watermen engaged on the River Thames, praying for the adoption of measures to prevent Steam Vessels from proceeding with such dangerous rapidity below London Bridge, which occasioned continual danger and repeated loss of life. He observed that the Petition well deserved the attention of the House. From his own personal knowledge he could confirm the statements of the petition.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  reminded the House that a measure had repeatedly been before them to effect the object contemplated by the Petition. The Bill had gone through Committee, and was lost, he believed, from unwillingness on the part of the House to legislate in the matter. It was time that there should be something done on the subject. Within the last three months there had been sixteen lives lost, owing to the rapidity of pavigating these vessels below bridge.
 8 l.
 Mr. Thornley  suggested that the best course would be that the boats below bridge should be built upon a larger scale, with higher bulwarks.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  observed that it would cost large sums to alter the boats as had been suggested. There were 1,000 watermen below bridge, and their boats on the average cost 25 l.
 Mr. Ruthven  presented a Petition from certain inhabitants of Chichester, complaining of the undue means by which the elections for that Borough were carried on. The petitioners expressed their regret that, after the passing of the Reform Bill, some measure was not adopted to check bribery and corruption at elections. The corporation of the town possessed almost the entire power at elections there, and the corporation itself was under the control of a certain noble Duke. The last election was carried by means of clubs formed in the town: dinners were given, and various indirect modes of bribery were adopted. As the only check on these practices the petitioners prayed for Vote by Ballot.
 Mr. Heathcote  regretted to see a Petition from Tiverton against Corporation Reform, though it did not much surprise him.
 Mr. Blackburne  undertook to say that the Commissioners did not deserve the sweeping condemnation in which the noble Lord had indulged. He had read the evidence carefully, and was prepared to defend the Reports, and to show that they were not highly coloured, and were justified by the evidence adduced. The Commissioners gave public notice of their proceedings; they sat in public, and they invited all to attend to give evidence, or to listen to it, to see that all interests were duly represented and protected. That there might be mistakes he would not deny; in some instances they were almost inevitable, because many persons who ought to have attended had kept back, and he was afraid, in some cases, that they might declare some statements to be wrong, and thereby throw doubt on all. If the parties at Tiverton had pleased, they might have attended, and made any representations that they thought requisite to their defence; not doing so, they did not deserve much sympathy. He repeated his belief that there was no colouring in the Reports that was not warranted by the evidence adduced, as far as it went.
 Mr. O'Connell : In what I said I did no more than was authorized by the ordinary rules of debate: to those I confine myself.
 Mr. O'Connell : Personality! The hon. Member charged me with perjury. I want to know whether a person who charges another with perjury has a right to complain of personality? Is such a man to call for the sympathy of the House, by an allegation that the delicacy of his individual feelings has been violated by personality? I did then condescend to give an explanation of the nature of the oath: I never will do it again: but if a man accuses me of perjury, I cannot, find so hard a term to answer him, but in more moderate language, I can accuse him of a wilful lie—[ "Oh, oh!" cheers, and confusion.
 Mr. O'Connell  (rising): I cheered.
 Mr. Ruthven  (rising): And I cheered.
 Mr. O'Connell : I, too, call upon you to protect Members of this House from a charge of perjury. That any man should conceive that he is entitled to ask for the protection of the Chair when he has called others a perjurer, seems to me most extraordinary.
 Dr. Lushington  said, that the hon. Member who last spoke appeared to be very imperfectly informed of the transaction at issue, otherwise he would have perceived, from a perusal of the evidence, that there was nothing to warrant any proceeding against Mr. Jay, who was strictly and solely Pilgrim's profesional adviser. Could any one say that he should be brought to the Bar of the House, and punished for it? But how did Mr. O'Malley stand in that respect? After the petition had been presented he, a barrister and counsel for the sitting Member, in violation of his professional duty, visited Pilgrim, and attempted to put him out of the way, to prevent him giving evidence before the Committee. A greater offence could not be committed against the privileges of the House. But he did more than that; for in his evidence he evaded every question put to him, the answer of which he thought would be unfavourable to his employers, and took shelter under the plea of professional privileges, where he knew his testimony would have the effect of inculpating them.
 Mr. Plumtre  was understood to say that the House did well to mark with its severest punishment and strongest reprobation the crime of bribery; but that, taking the case of the petitioner into consideration, his youth, his inexperience, his respectability, under all the circumstances enough of both had been inflicted. He wished hon. Members who moved in the same sphere as Mr. O'Malley did, to put themselves in the same situation as that gentle-
 20
 Mr. Chapman  thought it would be better to refer the case to a Committee, and he should wish to include Messrs. Sewell and Blake in the investigation.
 Mr. Herbert  considered the right hon. Baronet to be too delicate about the meaning of words. This suspension of the appointment of Lord Heytesbury was equivalent to his actual recall. Was there any cause to suppose that the noble Lord would be guilty of any such delinquency as the right hon. Baronet seemed to suspect? The right hon. Baronet was bound to show his reasons why he took such a step as the one under discussion. He would again ask the right hon. Baronet what delinquency was committed on the part of Lord Heytesbury? In the year 1831, a similar appointment had been made in despite of party opinions. That was a time when the question of the affairs of Belgium and Poland were agitated, and there was a letter from Lord Palmerston placing confidence in the then Governor-General of India. If political bias should be a motive for this appointment it ought to have been exercised at the time of the Revolutions of Belgium
 52
 Mr. Vernon Smith  contended, that there was a very wide distinction between recalling the individual appointed and cancelling his appointment. The former proceedings, certainly, would involve considerable disgrace; but the latter, as he conceived, rested on a very different footing. The right hon. Baronet had referred to the case of Lord William Bentinck; but, to have made the analogy complete, he should have told the House whether that nobleman enjoyed the confidence of the Duke of Wellington. As to Sir Robert Grant, he conceived that the case of Sir Robert Grant at Bombay, was very different from that of the Governor-General of India; and with regard to Mr. Macaulay, he apprehended that no Gentleman would seriously contend that the case of that Gentleman's appointment could be brought to bear upon the present. In spite of the calm and temperate tone in which the subject had been introduced, he could consider it as nothing but a party Motion, brought forward for party purposes. So much had lately been said of attempts to defeat important measures by side winds, that he would not say the present Motion was brought forward with any such object. He must, however, remind the House, that when the hon. Member for Beverley (Mr. Hogg) had appealed to the indulgence of his noble Friend for an early opportunity of bringing forward the present Motion, he had expressly mentioned that he should have to state important reasons why it could be no longer delayed. He had not, however, on the present occasion, put the House in possession of any of the weighty reasons he had so portentously announced. He really could not help thinking, that the present Motion originated in a feeling of anger and disappointment that the present Administration should have displayed so much vigour in one of its first Acts.
 Mr. Miles  said, that in boroughs the lists of Parliamentary voters were very accurately made out.
 Mr. Cressett Pelham  said, it appeared to him that this was not a Question which affected the credit of Ministers as regarded their own party. Until he heard the statement of the right hon. Member for Kirkcudbright, he had always thought that the appointment of the Governor-General was really vested in the Court of Directors.
 Mr. Scarlett  said, that so great was Mr. Bignold's anxiety to have an immediate investigation into his conduct, that, when he heard that his name was mixed up with the inquiry before the Ipswich Committee, he came to town and offered himself for examination before that Committee. He hoped this case would not be looked at in a partial light, because these
 28 subpœna
 Lord Arthur Lennox  begged to repudiate indignantly the imputations thus cast on him and the electors. He never gave away one shilling in the way of bribe. He never encouraged the formation of clubs—gave no dinners—and had not even a chairing, as he wished to avoid any expense, except what was required by law. He was returned by such a majority as his opponents admitted that they could
 9
 Lord John Russell : In answer to the question of the hon. Member, which the House has just heard, I have to state that I have paid great attention to the measure introduced by the right hon. Baronet opposite, on the subject of Dissenters' marriages. I found that those among the Dissenters whom I consulted, without saying whether the Bill should or should not be postponed, were anxious to have introduced into it, Amendments of so extensive a nature that they must give rise to protracted discussion; they wished to have a number of new provisions inserted, so that it could hardly be expected that the Bill in its new shape could be passed in the course of the present Session. On this account it is not my intention to proceed with that Bill. I have to state further, that my opinion certainly is, that the first measure that ought to be adopted with a view both to the Dissenters and to the inhabitants of the country at large, is one to establish a civil registration of births, marriages, and deaths. It is accordingly the intention of Government to propose such a measure early in the next Session. If we can propose a Bill satisfactory to the Dissenters and satisfactory also to Parliament, I do not apprehend that we shall find much difficulty in framing a measure relative to the marriages of Dissenters. As to the other point—Church-rates—retaining always the opinion I have heretofore expressed, it certainly is the conviction of Government that it ought to proceed early next Session to the introduction of a plan upon that subject. I believe that I have now answered the several questions of the hon. Member, and I may add that I certainly
 13
 Lord John Russell  interposed. After what has been said, I do not, of course, object to the decision of the Chair being given; but I do object that hon. Members should proceed with these accusations, whether hypothetically or substantively.
 Lord John Russell  said, he wished, before he should move the Order of the Day for the further consideration of the Municipal Corporations' Bill, to know what course it was intended to take with respect to the Question of privilege as connected with the Ipswich Election, then on the Paper of the House?
 Lord John Russell  said, that it was not his intention to go into the merits of this case at present; but he would suggest that, as the examination was likely to last several hours, it would be better to have the attendance of those gentlemen at the Bar on Saturday morning.
 Lord John Russell  would briefly give his opinion with respect to the different cases. He regretted much that the invaluable time of the House had been consumed upon the subject, although he felt that the case was one of great importance, of, perhaps, as much importance as any case of the sort that had ever been brought forward. He concurred with the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, and must repeat the opinion he had for-
 21 s. s. l. l. 22
 Lord John Russell : The real question which the hon. Member for Yarmouth wished to propose to the House was, after all, whether the present Government should or should not have the power of refusing to intrust very high political functions, extending over a great portion of the globe, to a person in whom they had not political confidence. That the hon. Gentleman should think Lord Heytesbury worthy of all political functions, was extremely natural on his part—extremely natural on that of the right hon. Baronet; but he thought it would be rather strange
 65 66
 Lord John Russell  said, that if the hon. Member for Oxford would refer to a subsequent Clause in the Bill, he would find his objection guarded against.
 Lord John Russell  said, it was his intention to propose that two auditors out of the three appointed by the Bill should sit with the mayor, and form the court of revision.
 Lord John Russell  said, that upon the suggestion of the hon. Member for Montgomeryshire, he should have no objection to the postponement of the further consideration of this Clause.
 Colonel Perceval  said, that he should
 71 ex parte
 Mr. Charles Buller  observed, that the mayor, as well as the auditors, would be elected by the strongest party in each town, and one of the weaker party would have three of his opponents sitting in judgment upon his claims. Those persons were likely to be extremely incompetent, and he should support a proposition for the appointment of a revising barrister, so that the lists might be made out at the same time as the lists for electors for Members of Parliament.
 Mr. Charles Buller  was of opinion that the adoption of the right hon. Baronet's Amendment would induce even interested parties not to attend to the registration, because they would think their presence unnecessary, in consequence of a paid officer being appointed to investigate all claims to be enrolled. The right hon. Baronet had alluded to the Resolution adopted by the Registration Committee,
 69
 Mr. Charles Buller  said, that he should move at once, that Thomas Moore Keith be ordered to attend on Friday at the Bar.
 Mr. Charles Buller  said, that he should also propose that Mr. Keith should attend. It was proper that he should have an opportunity of explaining at the Bar some very suspicious parts of his evidence. He moved that Mr. Keith be included in the order to attend at the Bar.
 Mr. Charles Buller  said, that he had not as yet gone into the case, which he was confident he should be able to establish against Keith, nor should he do so now, but should give notice to that effect for to-morrow, when he thought it would be found that the case against Mr. Keith was not so slight as some hon. Members seemed to imagine.
 Mr. Dominick Browne  could bear testimony to the respectability of Mr. O'Malley's family. He had been involved in the transaction for which he was then suffering inadvertently, and he (Mr. Browne) hoped the House would consent to his liberation. It was little to be wondered at that such a young man as Mr. O'Malley should have mistaken his course in the instance before the House, when even such a Parliamentary tactician as the right hon. Member for Tamworth, had stated, that he was not aware that absconding to avoid service of the Speaker's warrant was an offence against the privileges of the House. He (Mr. Browne) considered the imprisonment suffered by Mr. O'Malley as quite sufficient to expiate his offence; especially as it was undesigned on his part, and in a great degree inadvertent.
 Mr. Wodehouse , on the part of Messrs. Sewell, Blake, and Keith, was prepared to state their perfect readiness to meet any investigation into their conduct. He could not, therefore, acquiesce in the premature judgment given by the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir J. Wrottesley) but would wait for the day of inquiry, when it would be seen who was right and who was wrong.
 Mr. Finch  said, he felt it incumbent on him to give the measure his opposition.
 The Speaker  said, undoubtedly it is most unfortunate that this discussion has arisen; but it is not to be disguised that the word "perjury" is a strong expression. I always understood that terms only conditionally applied, were not such as called for the interposition of the Chair; thus, I recollect one of the oldest Members of this House using this phrase without reproof:—"I state, in answer to the hon. Gentleman, in the strongest terms that can be hypothetically put, that what he has said is false." When a hypothetical form is once adopted, the Chair is not required by his office to interfere. I shall never hesitate, however, when called upon, to express the strongest opinion that the use of such language is extremely inconvenient, and inconsistent with the freedom, as well as with the decorum of debate. The freedom of debate can never be better secured than by hon. Members conducting it with temper. I, therefore, hope that the usual business of the House may now proceed.
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that after the clear and unanswerable reasons offered by the right hon. the President of the Board of Control (Sir John Hobhouse) for cancelling the appointment of Lord Heytesbury, he had hoped the debate would have terminated by the withdrawal of the Motion made by the hon. Member for Yarmouth (Mr. Praed). But as, in the course of the speeches subsequently delivered,
 55 56 57 58
 Mr. Barlow Hoy  said, that considering the hon. Member who last spoke was a
 19
 Mr. Winthrop Praed  rose to bring forward the Motion of which he gave notice some time back, relative to the appointment of Lord Heytesbury as Governor-General of India. He did not regret the delay which had occurred in bringing forward his Motion. The interval of two months, which had since elapsed, must have had the effect of calming, and, in a great measure, of removing, any feeling of asperity to which the discussion might have led, had the subject been brought under the notice of the House immediately after the notice was given. He trusted that the question, as it was one relating entirely to the government of India, would be considered entirely upon its own merits, and apart from all party and political considerations. Not troubling the House with any further preface, he would now proceed to state the facts of the case as shortly as he could. In the month of October last, some difficulty arising between the Government and the Directors of the East-India Company, as to the appointment of a successor to Lord William Bentinck, as Governor-General of India, the Directors proposed that Sir Charles Metcalfe should be appointed provisionally to succeed him, and to perform the duties till a successor should be named. The then President of the Board of Control, however, stated that Government declined to approve of the
 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 * * 38 * * † Hansard (third series) vol. xix. p. 516. 39 40
 Mr. John Abel Smith  strongly denied the truth of the assertion of that petition. He was returned in his absence, and in the most honourable and independent manner, by a larger majority than he ever had before.
 Mr. Wilks  wished to be permitted to state, that he had not put these questions to the noble Lord without having first had very general communication with Dissenters in all parts of the kingdom. Among all great confidence in the kind and just feeling of the present Government prevailed, as it was believed that they were sincerely attached to the cause of religious liberty. The Dissenters felt that by forbearance they had not cancelled their obligations to the same cause, and that they best conformed to the wishes and promoted the interests of the country by acquiescence in this arrangement, looking forward, as they did, with great anxiety and intense hope to the production of measures that would harmonize with their feelings, while, at the same time, they gave general satisfaction.
 Mr. Wilks  reminded the House that during the present Session three subjects connected with the claims of the Dissenters had been more or less discussed:—1. A motion, now postponed, but which had stood for to-morrow, on the admission of Dissenters into the Universities. 2. The Dissenters' Marriage Bill, which had been introduced by the hon. Baronet, and had since devolved into the hands of the present Government. 3. A question which seemed to him of extreme importance which had been deferred, but which he had intended to submit, on the subject of a national civil registration of births, marriages and burials. To these three might, perhaps, be added the subject of Church-rates, repeatedly mentioned by his hon. Friend, the Member for Exeter. It had, however, been intimated that if the Dissenters would not press these several topics, to them of great interest, but allow measures of more vital and
 12
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, that he had a petition from one of the individuals in custody, Mr. O'Malley, praying that he might be brought to the Bar of the House and discharged. The petitioner stated, that he was in a delicate state of health; that confinement aggravated the symptoms of his illness; that he had already been fifteen days in custody; that his business had been much neglected in consequence of his confinement; and that he had necessarily suffered considerable injury, together with a variety of other circumstances with which he (Mr. Sergeant Jackson) should not then trouble the House, but which, in his opinion, were sufficient grounds for that gentleman's release. He (Mr. Sergeant Jackson) was enabled to state, that Mr. O'Malley was a professional gentleman of very short standing at the bar, and the deduction which he would make from that circumstance, that of his want of sufficient knowledge of the nature of the offence in which he had been engaged, was that which would be made, he was sure, by the House. He trusted, therefore, that the House would take this fact in extenuation, and deem, in their justice, the period of time he had suffered imprisonment, sufficiently long for the crime which he had, the same as inadvertently, committed. The petitioner further stated, that he had had no connexion whatever with the election of the late Members; that he knew nothing of the circumstances of the case until he had been called on professionally; that he had nothing whatever to do with four of the individuals who had absconded; and that he had only had one interview with the fifth. He knew Mr. O'Malley to be of one of the most ancient and respectable families in Ireland; few were more so in the county of Meath, where they lived. He had a brother too at the Irish Bar, who was an exceedingly respectable young gentleman. Under all these circumstances, he therefore hoped that the House would permit him to be brought to the Bar and discharged. The
 17
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  could assure the Mouse, that Mr. O'Malley was ready to answer any question at the Bar of the House consistent, with the duty he owed his clients, and his honour as a professional man.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  begged to read the following certificate on the subject of Mr. O'Malley's present state of health:—
 "Newgate, June 29,1835. "Mr. Bransby Cooper hereby certifies that Mr. P. F. O'Malley is not in a state of health to bear further confinement without considerable danger of permanent injury to his constitution. "To the Honourable the House of Commons."
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  objected to the specific Motion of the hon. Member for Ipswich, because it appeared to him that the decision of the Committee did not warrant it. At the same time he felt it his duty to move an Amendment to the Motion of the hon. Member, which he believed would meet the wishes of all parties. He was persuaded that the impression made on the Committee was precisely that stated in the Report, and he was equally convinced that no one who heard the evidence with an impartial mind could come to a different conclusion. Therefore without going into any details which were already before the House, and which would speak for themselves, he was anxious that some further information should be afforded to the House on the conduct of the magistrates on this occasion. This might, he conceived, be effected without touching upon, or extending too far, any
 27
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  wished he could devise some plan to relieve the House of the nightly repetition of that discussion. The hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets, had stated with perfect accuracy, the case of the petitioner. Mr. O'Malley had been six weeks counsel for the sitting Members, and he had a full opportunity of knowing the nature of his offence, as well as the opinion of the Committee respecting it. Besides, his petition was at variance with the facts stated in evidence, and uncontradicted by any one. Moreover, it offered no information beyond that which was already in the possession of the House. If the  quid pro quo
 Mr. Borthwick  said, that the Amendment he had intended to propose would be more likely to obviate the inconvenience likely to arise from the Clause as it stood than that proposed by the noble Lord, and he would leave it to his consideration whether the word "mayor" throughout, the whole of the Clause might not be altered for "recorder."
 Mr. Borthwick  was afraid that this objection would be fatal to his Amendment; but he still wished that the mayor should not also act as revising barrister, and he should propose that one be appointed.
 Mr. Sheil  said, that by a recent regulation in the Catholic Church, no person could be married except by bans, and that in places of public worship.
 Mr. Sheil  said, that when he inquired, a few nights ago, whether it was the intention of the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, that Mr. Bignold should be continued in the Commission of the Peace, the Attorney-General replied that the Government had no control over him, as he was merely a Magistrate, appointed by the Corporation of Norwich, but it now appeared that he was a Magistrate for the county of Norfolk also. If, therefore, no other Member of the House took the matter up, he should, on a future day, move an Address to the Crown to have Mr. Bignold removed from the Commission of the Peace.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  said, that he should adopt the Motion of the hon. Member, and withdraw his own.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice relative to the magistrates of Norwich, Messrs. Bgnold and Booth. He moved that those gentlemen be committed to Newgate for a breach of the privileges of the House—that the Speaker issue his warrant to that effect. He should commence by calling their attention to the Report of the Committee on the Ipswich election, in which the conduct of those gentlemen was mentioned. It was in these terms—"That the conduct of the magistrates, Samuel Bignold and E. T. Booth, Esqrs., before whom the said John Pilgrim was charged, appears to this Committee to be a breach of the privileges of this House." That Report would be a sufficient ground for his Motion, but he would strengthen it by quoting some of the evidence given before the Committee. The hon. Member read the following extracts. The first extract was from the evidence of Mr. O'Malley, and related to what occurred at Norwich when Pilgrim was in the custody of the constable:—
 "You first heard of the Chairman's warrant at five o'clock on the Thursday evening?—I did. Are you a professional man?—I am not. Is Mr. Booth?—He is not. Who is the adviser of the magistrates?—Mr. Day, the sword-bearer: he acts as justice's clerk. Is he a professional man?—He is an attorney. Did you not inquire of Mr. Day what ought to be done on a Chairman's warrant coming?—I had not heard of the Chairman's warrant. You heard of it at five o'clock on Thursday evening?—Allow me to give an answer; on the Thursday morning I met Mr. Keith at the sword-bearer's office, and he made his deposition. I am not asking about that; I am asking about your having heard at five o'clock that there was a Chairman's warrant out; what did you do in that extraordinary state of affairs: what advice did you take?—I took no advice. No advice at all?—No. Was Mr. Day present? I sent for him. Did you find him?—Yes. Although you found him you did not take any advice on what was to be done?—No; I acted on my own discretion as to what I thought was the proper course." 24 "Did you go to the office?—I did. When you got to the office, what did you find?—He was in custody. Did you see him in custody?—Yes. Whose custody?—In the custody of a man of the name of Barnes. Is he an officer?—He is the gaoler. And you saw him in the custody of Barnes?—Yes. Where did you see him in Barnes's custody?—At Mr. Jay's office. What became of him afterwards?—Some discussion took place there; and afterwards he went to the Norwich Union Fire-office, to Mr. Bignold. Is he a Magistrate?—I believe he is; the warrant was signed by him. Did you go there?—I did. And saw him there?—Yes. Was Mr. Bignold the Magistrate there?—I do not know the person; but by the recognition of the warrant, I presumed he was. Was that the person who you were informed was the Magistrate?—Yes; Mr. Bignold and Mr. Booth. Were you present before the Magistrates when Pilgrim was also in custody?—I was. Did you hear any charge made against him before the Magistrates?—I was much alarmed about his being taken there, as I thought that I was the cause of it, as serving that summons. I went to Mr. Adam Taylor, the solicitor, at Norwich, to come down; he desired a copy of the warrant to be taken—a copy of the information on which it was taken. Have you got that copy?—I have. What was the information?—That he had defrauded Messrs. Sewell and Blake, in the year 1831 of 6 l. l. l. 25 26
 Mr. Rigby Wason  said, none of those individuals who had petitioned for their discharge had proffered to do that which the House deemed the most indispensable towards assuring it—give evidence against their principal or principals. The petition before the House offered to do no more than had already been done. When the conduct of Mr. O'Malley came to be considered by the House, when it recollected his behaviour before the Committee—his refusal to answer questions which might implicate his principals, and his sheltering himself under his professional privilege when he was required to answer—he thought the House would not be doing its duty to its constituents and the country if it discharged him without more ample concessions—unless, in short, he came
 18
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that his hon. Friend who had just spoken, had addressed his argument entirely to the question of the recall of a Governor-General from India; whereas the question before the House was not one respecting the
 54
 Mr. C. Fergusson  said, that what he had stated was, that it was necessary some person should be appointed in whom the Government had confidence, in order that he might carry the new system into effect.
 Mr. Gisborne  said, that it was certainly his intention to persevere in his promised Motion, and he believed that it would be sufficient for him, instead of framing it to meet individual instances, to move that the Attorney-General should be instructed to prosecute all parties who appeared to have been guilty of bribery according to the Report of the Committee. He therefore should give notice of a Motion to that effect for to-morrow. As to the matter at present under consideration, he would only state that his opinion completely accorded with the view of the case taken by the noble Lord.
 Mr. Blackstone  said, that after the unjust aspersions that had been cast upon Mr. Keith, he should, in justice to him, read parts of the evidence which he had given before the Committee. Here the hon. Member referred to the evidence to show that Mr. Keith had satisfactorily answered all the questions put to him, and had acquitted himself of all blame.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  was very unwilling to prolong this discussion, but having been a member of the Committee, (and he might appeal to his hon. Friend, the Chairman of it, whether he did not pay every possible attention to the whole of the evidence) a love of justice impelled him to make one remark. He witnessed the demeanour and conduct, as well as heard the evidence, of Mr. Bignold the Magistrate, and of Messrs. Blake and Keith, the solicitors, before the Committee, and had a strong impression that the proposed examination of those gentlemen by the House, would terminate in their complete acquittal of every charge of conspiracy, collusion, or misconduct of
 30 ex-parte.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, that before the Clause was passed, he wished to state a difficulty he felt with respect to it and to the succeeding one, in neither of which was to be found any provision for enforcing the production of the Poor-rate books to any person seeking to establish an objection to the right of another to have his name retained on the burgess roll, or having to maintain his own right against an objector. The difficulties in either case were much greater under this than the Reform Act, because residence, rating, and the payment of rates for three years were ingredients in the qualification. Now it appeared that as the Bill was framed the vestry clerk of a parish who alone would have the custody of the rate books for three successive years, was the only person who would be in a condition to substantiate either an objection or a claim to a right, and might produce or refuse to produce the books as he pleases there being no power in the Bill to compel him.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, he was quite aware that Clause 15th gave power to the mayor to require any overseer of any parish wholly or in part within the borough, having the custody of any Poor-rate-book produce the same, and allow it to be inspected at any court to be held for revision of burgess roll, but that, in his opinion, did not obviate the difficulty. It was not only to the court of revision, ut previously to the holding of such court to parties desirous to raise or to defend an objection, that he wished the right of enforcing the production of the rate books to be extended, and the vestry clerk should be included in both Clauses, inasmuch as an overseer, on the termination of his period of office, usually delivered up his books to that officer.
 Sir James Graham  said, that he had not proposed the Amendment inconsiderately, and he thought, that as objections had been taken to the selection of the town-clerk, some other paid officer might be chosen to investigate the claims made for the borough franchise. Unless this were done, he felt confident that the suffrage in boroughs would become unrestricted household suffrage. The Registration Committee, of which he had the honour to be a member, was so impressed with the necessity of appointing a paid officer to make out the lists of voters, that they intended to recommend that in counties the high constable should be associated with the overseers for that purpose.
 Sir James Graham  moved the insertion of words directing the town-clerk to examine the validity of all claims to be inserted on the burgess roll, to make objections where he shall see just cause, and to sustain such objections on the revision of the lists before the mayor; the cost of making and sustaining those objections by the town-clerk to be paid out of the borough funds. He thought it right that that some paid officers should be appointed to perform the various duties specified in his Amendment; because, if the business was left to unpaid overseers, it would be found, as in the case of the registration of voters for Members of Parliament, their carelessness would be productive of very great evil.
 Mr. Hogg  considered the opinion of the right hon. Baronet a very dangerous one, namely, that the appointment of the Governor-General of India should be a political one. In the person appointed some confidence ought certainly to be placed, but he differed entirely from the ultimate conclusions of the right hon. Baronet. When a Governor-General was once appointed by the Crown his appointment should not be suspended except in case of gross misconduct or incapacity. The intention of vesting such a power in the Crown, clearly was that it should be exercised only in cases of gross misconduct or actual incapacity, and this he thought was a view of the matter which the case of Warren Hastings fully established. A Resolution for the recall of Warren Hastings was passed in 1782, and this Resolution received the sanction of the Court of Directors, but the Court of Proprietors adopted a counter-resolution, and the consequence was, that Warren Hastings remained where he was until 1784. When the subject came under discussion in 1783, what was the conduct of Mr. Fox? Why, he pointed out the manifest absurdity of considering the office of Governor-General a political appointment, observing that were his (the Governor-General's) "projects the most enlarged, his systems the most wise, and excellent which human skill could devise, what fair hope could be entertained of their eventual success when, perhaps before he could enter upon the execution of any measure he may be re-
 53
 The Attorney - General  said, that in many boroughs there was no recorder.
 Sir John Hobhouse  would endeavour, in the best way he could, to follow the hon. Gentleman who had brought forward the Motion, through the address with which he had accompanied it. Perhaps, in the first place, he might be allowed to say, that he should be much better pleased, and the Government of which he was a humble Member, would be much better pleased, if a view of the duty which they owed to themselves and to the country, would permit them to produce the papers for which the hon. Gentleman had moved. Rising to answer and to explain why it was that the King's Government thought fit to advise his Majesty to cancel the appointment of Lord Heytesbury, it was not his intention in any way to detract from the acknowledged merits of that noble Lord. For himself he could say, that it would have been far more satisfactory, if he could have entered the office which he had then the honour to hold, without commencing by an act which he was quite aware might become the source of discontent between the Court of Directors and himself. With respect to the papers for which the hon. Gentleman had moved, he could not distinctly make out whether or not he intended seriously to insist upon having them. If he did so, undoubtedly it would be his duty decidedly to object to the production of them. In the first place he did so for the manifest reason that no good whatever could come from the production of them. The hon. Gentleman, the House, and the country, knew all that it was needful to know on the subject. The hon. Gentleman, the House, and the country knew full well that his Majesty's present Advisers had thought fit to recommend to his Majesty to negative the appointment of Lord Heytesbury to the Governor-
 41 42 * * 43 44 Praed: 45 Praed: Praed: 46 * * 47 48 49 50 51
 Sir John Wrottesley  said, that by com-
 29
 Sir Robert Inglis : If the hon. and learned Member who had said substantively what he has said hypothetically, he would have committed one of the grossest outrages a man can offer to another—[ "No".
 Sir Robert Inglis : The hon. and learned Member, in an hypothetical form, has been guilty of the grossest outrage that one man, in a substantive shape, can commit upon another. I call, therefore, upon
 15 no, cheers.
 Mr. Robert Inglis  wished to call the attention of the House to a circumstance that occurred on Monday last. On the Motion of the noble Lord, the Home Secretary, a discussion upon a Petition, relative to the Oath taken by Catholic Members was adjourned to the following day. He was aware that the country, and certainly every Member was supposed to know what passed in the House; but though he (Sir R. Inglis) was sitting directly opposite the noble Lord, and in conference with the hon. Recorder of Dublin on that very subject, the renewed debate on Tuesday was disposed of, on the Motion of the noble Lord, without his (Sir R. Inglis's) being acquainted with the fact. He meant to make no complaint that the subject had been taken out of his hands; but he wished to stand right with the House as to the attack that had been made upon him. He did not know whether the hon. and learned Member who made the attack was now in the House; but he wished it to be understood, that whatever offence of this kind he might be exposed to, he would much rather be the object of it than the assailant. Without adding more to the irregularity of which he was now guilty,
 14
 Sir Robert Inglis : I allude to personality.
 Sir Robert Peel  begged to explain what he had meant in the observation quoted by the hon. Member for Mayo. He had merely expressed a doubt whether going out of the way to avoid the service of the Speaker's warrant was a legal offence, and he had asked the Attorney-General a question to that effect. He never expressed a doubt of its being a breach of the privileges of the House, still less that a conspiracy to evade such service was an offence both against law and privilege.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that amounted to just what he was stating. The Government argued thus:—"Our predecessors appointed a person in whom they had confidence, and we will appoint one in whom we have confidence." He had already argued the principle, and, therefore, he would only say, that such a proceeding was a direct supercession of the power reserved to the Court of Directors by the Act of Parliament. In conclusion, he thought the cancelling of the appointment of Lord Heytesbury would tend to diminish the respect in which the Court of Directors had hitherto been held, and to weaken our power in India by introducing party feelings, the absence of which hitherto had been the main cause of our strength. He thought that the right hon. Baronet had failed to make out a valid defence for the exercise of the prerogative of the Crown; and as he had admitted that no public inconvenience would arise from the production of the papers, he would probably not oppose the Motion.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that he observed the noble Lord opposite watching anxiously for the opportunity of going into the Committee on the Corporation Bill, and, therefore he would detain the House but for a very short time whilst he made a few observations upon the Question before the House, and he promised that he would compress what he had to say within the smallest possible compass. He had listened to the speech of the right hon. Baronet, the President of the Board of Control, with considerable attention, and he must be allowed to make a distinction between
 59 60 61 62 63
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that there could be no doubt that it was the wish of the House to have some further investigation, and he thought it would therefore be better for the hon. Member to make his Motion at once, rather than give notice for to-morrow, unless the House should require it.
 Sir Robert Peel  was understood to observe that the hon. Gentleman had no necessity of giving notice, but might bring on his Motion instanter.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  thought that there was no precedent for the course proposed to be pursued by the hon. Member for Ipswich. It had always been the practice for any hon. Member, preferring a charge of breach of privilege against any individual, to state the grounds on which the accusation was founded—for having absconded, or been guilty of bribery, or some offence of that description; but simply to move that he be taken into custody for having violated the privileges of the House, and that without any Resolution to that effect being affirmed by the House, was a course of proceeding so unusual, that he hoped the hon. Member would see the propriety of abandoning his present Motion.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  admitted that he had not looked into the evidence as it respected Keith, and he thought it would be more regular if the hon. Member gave notice of his Motion to include Mr. Keith in the order.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, that if it should turn out that this charge of felony was trumped up against Pilgrim, those who were concerned in such a proceeding were, both in a civil and criminal sense, responsible; but it would be a very inconvenient course for that House to go into an inquiry as to whether the charge was a  bona fide
 Mr. Williams Wynn  admitted that Mr. O'Malley had been guilty of an aggravated offence, but the Question for the House to consider was, whether the imprisonment and the disgrace which he had endured were sufficient for the offence. He (Mr. Wynn) considered they were. A man who refused to answer questions put to him by the Committee, certainly called down upon himself a much more severe punishment. He thought that a considerable difficulty attached to the main Question. Fifteen days was not a sufficient punishment, but twenty-one days might be, accompanied as it was by the disgrace of imprisonment, and with the still greater disgrace of receiving the reproof or reprimand of that House; and, although the offence was greater than that of those who had absconded, at the same time, he thought that the House might find a good cause to extend its mercy to the person who was then suffering under its displeasure.
 Mr. Trevor  supported the Amendment, which was necessary, he said, to prevent any tag-rag-and-bob-tail establishing in business to the prejudice of the hardworking and honest tradesman.
 Lord Howick  thought the proposed Amendment was open to considerable objection, because it would give to the ruling party in the town council, whose paid servant the town-clerk would be, the power of opposing the registration of their opponents.
 Lord Morpeth  said, he was desirous of teeing the restrictions at present existing on clergymen in Ireland in respect to marriages removed, therefore he hoped the Bill would be passed.
 Viscount Sandon : Sir, I rise in the first place for the purpose of stating that the hon. Member for Tiverton, who has just sat down, is not correct in the supposition, that the petition from that Corporation which has been just presented is directed in opposition to Corporate Reform. I have had the opportunity of seeing it, and I find its prayer is confined to the introduction of certain Amendments in the Bill now before the House, which are certainly by no means inconsistent with the principle of that measure. But I am glad to take this opportunity of making some observations on a passage in the Report of the Commissioners upon that Borough, which seems to cast a reflection, at least by implication or insinuation, upon a character, which will be ever dear to me, and which has never yet been stained even by the breath of calumny. Sir, in that Report it is asserted, that a letter was written by the Corporation of Tiverton to Lord Harrowby, requesting his interference to procure for Sir John Duntze the situation of Receiver General to the county of Devon, and announcing to him at the same time the stipulation that that gentleman should make an annual payment to the Corporation of 80 l. 10 11
 Lord Sandon  said, he had been a Member of the Committee on the Bill, and had so arranged it as to meet the views and objects of all parties. Unfortunately, however, at a late hour in the morning, and when few of the friends who had the management of the Bill were present, an hon. Member moved that the Bill be further proceeded with that day six months, which was carried, and the Bill lost. If a similar Bill were brought in now, he was sure that it would be carried.
 Viscount Stormont  said, that he knew it to be the most anxious wish of these Gentlemen to appear at the Bar of the House, and give every full and satisfactory explanation of their conduct, but before they came up it was necessary that he should say a few words to vindicate them from the suspicion which the Report of the Committee had cast upon them. He would state what occurred on Pilgrim being taken into custody at Norwich. The magistrates had sent for the Recorder and Town Clerk of Norwich, their legal advisers, with a view to consulting them, but before the arrival of those officers, Pilgrim was withdrawn from their custody, and sent to the House of Correction for safe custody. Mr. Bignold was a most respectable gentleman, of large property, and was not only a magistrate of Norwich, but also of the county of Norfolk. Mr. Booth was also a gentleman of great respectability: and both were quite incapable of joining in any conspiracy, as was insinuated, to defeat the ends of justice, or to violate any of the privileges of that House.
 Mr. Cooper  stated that Mr. O'Malley's disease was that of tetexia. He had prescribed for him "liberty," and his prescription was addressed to the House and not to a chemist—witness withdrew.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the House should never carry its power one inch beyond the proper line, but in proportion as they were strict in protecting their privileges, in that proportion also should they be strict in the evidence of illness, or in every case that might occur hereafter, the House would come prepared rather to commiserate the health of the party than to punish the crime. The evidence was of the slightest kind. Comparing the evidence of Mr. Cooper with the certificate he had given, he thought there was a great discrepancy. The question was not whether they should continue the imprisonment of Mr. O'Malley, but whether they should call for more satisfactory evidence as to his late state of health. The certificate was by no means satisfactory. It had been given by a gentleman who had seen Mr. O'Malley only once, while those who had long attended him might have been called, but were not. Could this be considered the best evidence? If they received it in this case, they would be bound to receive such evidence in all future instances, and then the power of taking into custody would become a mere farce.
 Mr. O'Connell , though unwilling to take part in such a discussion, or to bear hard upon individuals, must say that if all this were not mockery, it had very much the appearance of it. The witness had never attended Mr.O'Malley professionally but in this instance, when he was carried to Newgate by Mr. Kelly for the purpose, as might by some be suspected, of obtaining from him a comprehensive certificate. Though Mr. O'Malley was so weak and debilitated, he had been able to be present every day before the Committee for seven weeks. He thought that Sir Astley
 84
 Mr. Blackburne  could not see why the Mayor and auditors, after the expiration of the first year, were not proper persons to revise these lists. Who were they? Persons chosen by the common council, as the best amongst that body to constitute a tribunal by which the lists might be corrected. Such a body would, in his opinion, be the fairest and best which could be appointed for such a purpose.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that by the Clause the principle was admitted, and there was a practical step taken towards facilitating the making a solemn declaration have the legal sanction of an oath, and thus getting rid of the oath altogether. He trusted they would soon have that principle universally introduced into the law.
 Mr. Goulburn  would not enter into the general question at all; what he objected to, and what his right hon. Friend, the Member for Montgomery had objected to, was this,—that by the Clause, thus worded, they stated, that when the Mayor was administering the oath, or the affirmation, to those who did not like to be sworn, they did not get rid of the oath altogether, but left it to be evaded or not. Now, he thought, that was a bad precedent. In the first place, when a man
 95
 Mr. O' Connell : it would be much better to get rid of the oath altogether.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he considered the effect of the Clause would be, that in all cases, whether of Moravians, Separatists, and Quakers, or not, the affirmation might be substituted for the oath, and that was, in effect, getting rid of the oath entirely.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the Amendment was against the principle of the Bill, which was, that the affairs of a town should be managed by persons elected by those who had property in it, whereas the principle of the Amendment was to bring into the Government of the
 99
 Mr. Charles Butter  observed, that in Leicester, Liverpool, and some other towns, the Corporation included the freemen, so that the town council would, in such cases, amount to 5,000 or 6,000.
 Mr. Blackburne  said, he should object to the Amendment of the right hon. Baronet, as it would tend greatly to narrow the rights of electors. Practically he did not think it could have much effect, for he thought there could be little doubt that where electors were called on to act in Corporations they would; they, as having an interest in the place, would select those who were most fit for the office they were to fill. If the people were left to themselves, there could be no doubt that they would elect persons of property to fill the vacant places in Corporations. But let it be borne in mind that it was not property alone that was required to fill those places. Intelligence was also necessary; yet, unless a man was known to be a man of some property, it was not always that an opportunity of finding out his intelligence was given. The right hon. Baronet had referred to what he called the usual practice of Corporations, but the general practice had been the reverse of what the right hon. Baronet seemed to think, for in any corporate charter there was no expression to denote the amount of property necessary as a qualification. It was true that charters said that "fit and discreet" persons should be elected, but it was left to the electors to decide who those persons should be. The right hon. Baronet had laid great stress on the case of Manchester. Now, he happened to be engaged as counsel on a Bill which had been brought in with respect to the local government of Manchester. That Bill passed, but it was thought by some that it did not work well, and another Bill was brought in to alter and amend it. The former Bill was considered to have given too much power to the rate-payers. He was engaged to oppose the second Bill, and it was so much altered in its progress through the Commons, that those who had brought it n abandoned it, and he was under the necessity of carrying it through. When it went to the Lords, those who had in-
 105
 Mr. Blackburne : Only as rate-payers, but the commissioners of police were to have a qualification.
 Mr. Blackburne  suspected that his hon. Friend the Member for Salford and himself were not speaking of the same measure.
 Lord Stanley  also suspected that the hon. and learned Gentleman was mistaken. He had himself been a member of the Committee which sat upon this Manchester Bill, and before which this very question of qualification was discussed, and if he was not greatly mistaken, though he was sorry to speak against the hon. and learned Gentleman, it was a question before that Committee whether there should not be an additional qualification for the elected beyond that which was required for the elector, Upon that question a compromise afterwards took place, as he believed, in the House of Commons, and by that compromise a great difference was made in the qualification required both for the elected and for the electors.
 Mr. Blackburne  said, that though the noble Lord might not recollect his appearance as counsel before the Committee, he well recollected appearing before the noble Lord as a member of the Committee. His impression was, for at this distance of time he would not be bound to say—
 Mr. Blackburne : Certainly I did, for, to the best of my recollection, the compromise took place in the House of Lords. If any of us have the Bill as it passed through this House, that will decide the question between us, but I looked for it today among my papers, and was not able to find it. We only see in the Statute-book the Bill as it ultimately passed the Lords, and there a qualification is fixed both for the electors and for the elected. The hon. and learned Gentleman then proceeded to admit, that all the modern Acts, not only those mentioned in the schedule to this Bill, but also many others, which had been examined by some of his learned friends, who had been engaged in drawing up this Bill, did contain Clauses requiring a qualification for the persons to be elected. But how, he would ask, did that arise? In former times, it was quite clear, that for the election into Corporate offices, no qualification was required, for no mention of such a qualification was to be found in any of the Charters of our ancient boroughs. How, then, did it come to be required in our Acts of Parliament. They would find on inspecting these, that where a qualification was required, it was in cases where there was no election, but where a man became a Commissioner of Police or watching by virtue of the property which he held; and in such cases, as there was no elector, it became necessary that there should be a qualification of property. But it was otherwise when the question referred to those who were not self-elected, but who were elected by others to act on their behalf and for their benefit. If this were a matter of mere politics—if it related to the election of Members of Parliament, or of persons to whom were to be confided great trusts, of which they might take advantage either for themselves or others, then a qualification might be necessary, for in such cases the electors might be swayed to elect persons not the most fit for the discharge of the duties imposed upon them, but the most likely to confer benefit upon those who elected them. In this Bill, however, the least possible patronage would be vested in the Members of the Council. All they would have to do would be to consult what was most for the benefit of the town. They would have a public duty,
 107 l. l. 108 l.
 Mr. William Williams  (Coventry) said, that no qualification was required for the Corporate Officers of the City of London, and yet they had the management of funds, that amounted in the shape of rates, local taxes, and trusts, to 400,000 l.
 Mr. Goulburn  thought, that the right hon. Baronet who had last addressed the House had not taken into consideration the trusts, charities, and duties that would be intrusted to the management of those persons for whom a qualification was sought. The duties that would devolve on those persons made it, in his opinion, imperative that they should be individuals possessed of a certain amount of property. Would the right hon. Gentleman contend, that the management of funds might be intrusted to persons without any qualification, and that that would be a sufficient guarantee for their integrity? The right hon. Gentleman would agree with him that it had always been the practice in this country that when persons were intrusted with the management of funds in which they were not personally interested, the only way to have security that those funds should be properly administered was, that the persons should be possessed of property. If they had not property how could they be come
 112
 Mr. Francis Baring  wished to call the attention of the House to that which would be the real effect of the proposition of the right hon. Member for Tamworth on the different towns in which this measure was intended to operate, and for that purpose he would call hon. Members' attention to the Borough which he had the honour to represent. He found that in Portsmouth, which was separated by wards from Portsea, the whole number of Common Councilmen furnished by the different wards was forty-eight, although there were only fifty eight houses in the Borough rated to the house duty above 40 l.
 Mr. Francis Baring  said, that he did, and he thought the Amendment of the right hon. Baronet a blind mode of proceeding.
 Mr. Francis Baring  said, that what he had said certainly did apply to the principal part of the town.
 Mr. Goulburn  would suggest the necessity of adopting some satisfactory provision in the case of charitable trustees, before the Clause was finally disposed of.
 Captain Berkeley  moved a proviso, that no person should be qualified to be elected a counsellor or charitable trustee who was a clergyman in holy orders, a licenced dissenting teacher, or an officer in the Customs, Stamps, Excise, or Post-office.
 Captain Berkeley  withdrew the proviso.
 Lord Stanley  was ready to act as the Committee might desire, and to go on or not, according to its discretion. He would detain the Committee but a very few minutes, for the Amendment which he had to propose was so plain and simple, and its principle was so general, that it was not necessary for him to discuss the matter at any length. He did not propose by this Amendment, to affect in the least the rights conferred on the new body of electors created by the Bill: he did not propose to mix up with the new privileges a reservation of any former rights to cramp their operation; but his object was simply to make provisions, by means of which the constituency enacted by the Bill might be brought to work most steadily and effectually for the good government of boroughs. The old system of municipal government had many and serious vices, among which was the principle of self-election,—a principle not to be justified
 122 123 124
 Mr. Goulburn  denied, that he and his Friends were departing from the popular principle because they did not approve of having elections every year. If the right hon. Gentleman thought their annual municipal elections so good, why did he not on the same principle support annual Parliaments? Was it not equally necessary that the conduct of a Member of Parliament should be annually subjected to the approval of his constituents, as that a member of the Town Council should be put to a yearly election. Under the system proposed, there would be elections every three months, and every man's occupation would be interfered with by the constant canvassing and excitement which would be going forward.
 Mr. Scarlett  observed, that there would be great anxiety for office in large towns, where 25,000 l. l.
 Mr. Scarlett  thought that the Recorder and Magistrates should, in every instance, be members of the Town Council  ex efficio;
 Lord John Russell  opposed the Amendment, which was obviously contrary to the principle upon which the Bill proceeded. He saw no advantage that could possibly result from its being adopted.
 Lord J. Russell : My object in framing this Clause, was to exempt persons, legally exempted, from taking oaths. I think it would be much better to have substituted the affirmation altogether. At the same time, I think it is one of those questions which ought to be separately considered. I am, therefore, not disposed to settle it permanently in this Bill, but to reserve the question for a separate measure.
 Lord John Russell  did not intend the appointment of Revising Barristers for the present year as an experiment, but only as the means of meeting a pressing difficulty for that period. The experiment which he in reality made was the present Clause, which if it did not effect the intended object, that of saving expense, he should be ready to consider the question of imposing additional charges on the inhabitants of the towns. He thought, however, that the appointment of such a tribunal as that proposed by the hon. Member for Montgomeryshire, would in the first instance be an expensive and unjustifiable appointment.
 Lord John Russell  had certainly never imputed to the right hon. Baronet a desire to obstruct the progress of the Bill; on the contrary, he felt sure that the right hon. Baronet was desirous of fairly discussing its principles; and like every other Gentleman could not wish to delay its progress, because he could not wish that
 87
 Lord John Russell  observed, that the labours of the Committee last night had terminated in the 14th Clause. In reference to some suggestions which had been made then, he said, that he was of opinion that two assessors should be chosen by the town council for the purpose of revision, and he should accordingly move an Amendment to that effect. For the first year it would be desirable that the Revising Barristers should be employed for the purpose of revising the lists; but, beyond that period, he did not think that it would be necessary.
 Lord John Russell  still retained his original opinion. Though he admitted that it would be desirable to employ the Revising Barristers for the present year, he thought it desirable that the boroughs, generally, should be allowed to govern themselves in respect to the matter in question. The points which they would have to decide, were points which could be equally well settled by persons of sound common sense, as by legal functionaries. Of course, if it were found that they were unable to govern themselves, it might then be advisable to take some further steps. As to the suggestion of his right hon. Friend, that the recorder should execute the duties of revision, he objected decidedly to the employment of a judge—of a person who ought to appear only in his judicial capacity in the borough, in matters of mere civic regulation. With respect to the suggestion for appointing a tribunal of three or five persons to insure uniformity of decision, that question had been discussed before the Registration Committee; but it was one on which he had not yet made up his mind.
 Lord John Russell  observed that the 39th Clause contained a provision of that nature.
 Lord John Russell  agreed with the right
 121
 Lord John Russell  said, that he did not think the proviso necessary, and he therefore felt bound to object to its introduction.
 Lord John Russell  would take the subject into consideration.
 Lord John Russell  contended, first, that the proposition of the right hon. Baronet was a restriction on the powers of the burgesses; and secondly, that there ought to be very strong reasons for the adoption of such a restriction by the Committee. He thought that his Clause tended more to produce good Government in these boroughs than the proposition which the right hon. Baronet had moved as an Amendment on it. The right hon. Baronet, he said, had confined his observations to the instances of towns in which these qualifications had been fixed for the Members of the governing body, but had not said one word to prove that those qualifications had produced good Government. He was ready to grant that a great number of those local Acts to which the right hon. Baronet had referred established the fact that Parliament had of late years fixed a pecuniary qualification for the Members of the governing body; but having granted that, he was not ready to grant that they were now bound to follow the course which Parliament had formerly chalked out for them. He should state very shortly his reasons for opposing this Amendment. The first was, that our ancient charters did not contain a syllable about the pecuniary qualification of the Magistrates of the boroughs to which they were granted. There was not at this moment, in the city of London any qualification for Municipal Offices; and for the Common Council, which was elected yearly, no pecuniary qualification was required; so much for the original qualification of charters. Was there any general principle or satisfactory reason on which to establish the proposed qualification? He thought not. In his opinion both reason and principle were in favour of an unrestricted choice, by the burgesses, of persons in whom they think they can most justly confide. If the House did not confide in them, it would be better not to give the privilege; if it did confide in them, it was better not to encumber them with the restriction. There would be great practical inconvenience if the right hon. Baronet's Amendment were adopted. In many places the proposed qualification would be exceedingly high,
 116 l. l. l., l. l. l. 117
 Mr. A. Chapman  said, there could be no doubt of the eminent qualifications of Mr. Bransby Cooper, who was as well able to give the House information as Sir Astley Cooper.
 Mr. Cumming Bruce  thought, that the example of Scotland ought to convince every rational person that dispensing with qualifications in cases like the present was most unwise. It was well known to every one at all acquainted with the present Scotch burgh system that the persons who had been chosen for the purpose had failed to carry on the affairs of those burghs with anything like efficiency; and no one who looked at the returns relating to the distribution of the Corporate Funds of Inverness, and the other boroughs which he had the honour to represent, could for a moment doubt that in those burghs Corporate Property had been seriously deteriorated by mismanagement. If a qualification were necessary for the election of Members to serve in that House, it was equally called for in the election of Municipal officers: and although he should be glad to see the qualification for Municipal
 115
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  thought, that if practical men were appointed to adjudicate on disputed votes, they would give much more satisfaction than Revising Barristers. Considering the class, also, from whom they would be selected, they would, in his opinion, form a more competent tribunal than that which would be established if the proposed Amendments were agreed to.
 Mr. Lechmere Charlton  remarked that Mr. B. Cooper had been in the habit of seeing Mr. O'Malley, though not professionally until yesterday.
 Mr. Shaw  argued that this was not a case where it was necessary to have the evidence of a constant medical attendant. Mr. B. Cooper had known Mr. O'Malley for many months, and could speak accurately and positively to the general debility of his constitution.
 Mr. Finch  thought the analogy did not hold good between the Reform Act and the present, for it was much more difficult to decide upon a three years' continuous residence, and rating, than the one year's residence, and rating. He also thought the time allowed for the investigation—viz. one fortnight was too short a period, for twenty persons of one party might, out of spite, object to 1,000 voters on the other, and the investigation closing at the expiration of a fortnight, there might be 500 cases undecided; yet the Mayor would have no power to prolong the inquiry. Some longer period, say five weeks, might be allowed.
 Mr. Grote  wished the House to consider whether they ought to proceed with a Clause so important as this, and that which immediately followed, at so late an hour.
 Mr. Robinson  said, that it appeared from a Clause in the noble Lord's Bill, that the rate-payers within the borough were to have the power of electing the Town Council from their own body without any regard to property or other qualification. By the proposition of the right hon. Baronet, the choice of the rate-payers would be limited to persons who possessed a certain pecuniary qualification. He confessed that it appeared to him that the qualification proposed by the right hon. Baronet was remarkably high. For his own part he thought that the election of the Town Council ought to be vested in the rate-payers, without being subject to any further qualification. As the hon. and learned Member who last spoke, said that the Amendment would narrow the sphere from which the rate-payers would have to choose—that the effect of it would be to exclude a valuable class of persons—that it would prevent them from selecting persons of intelligence and capacity, and as he so far agreed with the opinion of the hon. and learned Gentleman, he could not support the Amendment proposed by the right hon. Baronet.
 Mr. Robinson  was in favour of the Amendment, for even supposing that the system proposed by it did not work well, it might be easily changed.
 Mr. George F. Young  thought that their object should be not so much that the Bill should work cheaply as that it should work well. As he did not expect impartiality of decision from any local tribunal appointed in such a way as that intended under the Bill, he should vote for the Amendment.
 Mr. Aglionby  thought he had heard something slip from the noble Lord (Lord John Russell)—viz., that after having the other officers, if they did not give satisfaction, he would then erect the Revising Barristers into a permanent Court. It was, as it appeared to him, entirely a
 90 per diem
 Mr. Warburton  would suggest to the hon. Member for Oxford (Mr. Hughes) that the qualification which might fit a man to be a Member of Parliament, or even an Alderman, might not be a proper qualification for a Town Councillor.
 The Speaker  addressed them as follows: John Bond, Robert Burcham Clamp, and Arthur Bott Cooke, this House has resolved that you have been guilty of a breach of its privileges, by absconding to avoid the service of warrants requiring you to give testimony before the Committee to whom the petition complaining of an undue return for the Borough of Ipswich was referred. This is a very grave offence. There is no duty which is more incumbent upon all persons, in all ranks and conditions of life, than that of
 85
 Mr. Barlow Hoy  considered that a qualification in such cases was absolutely necessary, and in proof of his assertion he referred to the East-India Company, who had attached, and, in his judgment, very properly, a high qualification to the office of Director.
 Dr. Bowring  consented that the Barristers should be employed on the first occasion, on condition that the boroughs should ultimately be provided with the power of conducting their own affairs. The merits of the Bill were its simplicity and adaptation to the new constituency, which he hoped would be preserved.
 Mr. Brotherton  said, that, in Manchester and Salford, some individuals were Commissioners under local Acts for watching, lighting, &c., in virtue of their property, without being elected.
 Mr. Brotherton  said, that by the Bill in question, all who were rated at 30 l.
 Mr. Brotherton  supported the Clause. He was of opinion that, the elections would be peaceful, and that the people would elect only those in whom they had confidence.
 Mr. Hume  hoped that the hon. Member for Oxford (Mr. Hughes) would at once see the propriety of withdrawing his Amendment. The principle of the Bill was, that the Town Councillors should consist only of rate-payers within the town or borough.
 Mr. Hume  submitted (after the witness had withdrawn) that this evidence was not sufficient, and that the House ought to have before it Mr. O'Malley's usual medical attendant.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  moved that Mr. O'Malley be brought to the Bar tomorrow.
 Mr. Pease  thought it was of the greatest importance that it should be decided, whether or not the Revising Barristers should be appointed under this Bill. They ought to save expense as much as possible; and appointing barristers under the Bill would, he believed, have that effect.
 Mr. Borthwick : Sir, I rise to call the attention of the House to the appointment of the persons who are to be elected members of that body, which will be or may be, a very inexperienced body in the management of funds so large, and the administration of duties so important as those which are to be performed by the Magistrates of the boroughs, and not upon this consideration only but for the sake of preserving peace, unity, and good-will between the new Corporations, and those whose place they fill. I venture to submit to the consideration of the Committee, the Amendment of which I have given notice for the purpose of continuing in their offices for life, all the members of the present Corporation. [" Oh! Oh!" Laughter. 97 Cheers. 98 Loud cries of "Yes! Yes!" "No, No!"
 Mr. Borthwick  thought that the Mayor should not be selected as one of those who were to be appointed for the purpose of revising the lists; indeed he, of all others, should be the last person chosen for such an office; for let him be ever so pure, he must be exposed to suspicion from the fact of his being obliged to take a principal part in making up the Returns originally. He would give his support to the Motion of the hon. Member for Mont-gomeryshire.
 Mr. Sheil  was understood to ask, why the noble Lord had not made a similar proposition with respect to the provisions of the Scotch Burghs' Bill, which was brought forward when the noble Lord was in power? Men in power changed their opinions, and might now be Conservatives although some four years ago they were excellent Reformers.
 Mr. Wason  suggested that no person who had been a bankrupt should be eligible to be elected a councillor, &c. unless be had paid 20 s.
 Mr. Estcourt  said, that the great difficulty in the appointment of such a tribunal as that proposed was, to find persons to compose it who should be competent, and at the same time impartial. So far as he had an opportunity of forming a judgment on the question, he was ready to accept of any tribunal which would ensure an impartial hearing and decision of the cases brought under its consideration; but the last question which should, in his opinion, be submitted, was that of disputed corporate votes. The expense, too, would be infinitely less if men of respectability and character as lawyers were to give decisions which would not be open to any charge of dishonesty, than if a partial tribunal were appointed, to whose judgments almost endless objections would be taken. His experience led him to believe that the trust reposed in the local authorities by this Clause would be exercised with partiality. He was therefore inclined to think that the adoption of the Amendment which had been proposed would ensure better decisions and at a less expense than the Clause as it originally stood. The noble Lord had consented to make an experiment with respect to revising Barristers for the present year. Why not, if that experiment proved successful, continue their jurisdiction?
 Mr. Gisborne  then rose to make the Motion of which he had given notice on the previous night, and said that as he apprehended no objection to it, he should not say a single word upon the subject,
 86
 Mr. Ewart  considered that much more security for the proper management of Corporate Funds was to be obtained from the common interest municipal officers took in the welfare of the community of which they formed a part than from any wealth they might be possessed of. The borough system generally must be remembered as reflecting discredit upon the country at large, and he only wondered that his noble Colleague should not have
 113 ex officio, l. veto
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, he was willing to move that the Chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again, if the Committee
 119 120 l.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  moved as an Amendment the insertion of certain words in the third line, with a view to add to the number of councillors of every borough, the Representatives in Parliament for the time being (if any), and Recorder for the time being (if any) of such borough, and all justices of the peace acting in and for the same. The ground upon which he was induced to move this Amendment was, that he thought the effect of the Bill would otherwise be to reduce the number of Town Councillors to too great an extent. In the city of Oxford, for instance, the number of Town Councillors at present amounted to ninety. Under the operation of the Bill they were then considering, that number would be reduced to thirty-three, and of these eleven would be empowered to do all the acts of the whole body. It was to remedy that defect, and to secure a proper qualification for at least a portion of the Town Council, that he was induced to move his Amendment.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  was not disposed to make the Recorder and Magistrates members of the Council  ex officio,
 Sir James Graham  said, that as the Bill provided a paid legal officer to perform all judicial functions for all large boroughs, he did not see why, in them, that functionary should not be required
 88
 The Attorney-General  thought, that it would be possible to select two intelligent, independent men, from the borough, to perform the duties with impartiality. The questions on which they would have to decide, would involve chiefly matters of fact, and not any very abstruse points of law. Moreover, no pecuniary charge would be caused by their performance of the task; the local distinction which it would confer on them was a sufficient reward.
 The Attorney-General  said, that the great object which they ought all to have in view was to keep down expense as far as possible. The effect which public opinion would have on the mode of conducting the revision of the lists by the Mayor and auditors, would be the best security against any unfair or partial conduct. The expense caused by the appointment of Revising Barristers would, he felt convinced, be much greater than those who supported the Amendment of the hon. Member for Montgomeryshire supposed; for every disputed vote would, in itself, be a case which would, in all probability, occupy the attention of the Court for a long time, by which the duration of its sitting would be prolonged, and the expense inevitably increased.
 Sir John Hobhouse  contended, that the clause as it stood in the Bill was most congenial to its general principles. In his opinion, all persons who were concerned in borough Government ought to have the free choice of the borough Magistrates, who were to have the control of the borough
 110 l. l., l. in toto; 111 bona fide
 Sir John Hobhouse  could not help thinking that the arguments of his noble Friend told against himself. He thought that the greater the power they intrusted to these individuals the greater should be the hold they had on them. For his own part, he thought the elections should be as frequent as was consistent with the peace of the towns, so that the people might have the power of removing men in. office for malversation or incapacity. He denied that elections would perpetually produce disturbances. If he thought so, he should be against the Bill altogether. He would refer to the annual elections in the city of London to support his view. The Common-Councilmen were elected every year, but there were no disturbances produced by those elections. He did not think the noble Lord had, in any point of view, proved the necessity of his Amendment. He doubted the effect of the annual elections producing annual troubles: and even if they did, he considered that they would be cheaply purchased by the control of the community over the governing body. The Bill was purely popular, and founded on a popular basis. He was
 125
 Mr. Jervis  protested against the boroughs being charged with that expense. He saw no objection to the absence of all that enormous expenditure, which he considered was wholly unnecessary. In the Reform Act there were some cases of a complicated nature which might require the decision of a Barrister. But here, there was nothing but matter of fact—the occupation for three years, and the three years' rating; and he really saw no great difficulty in those matters. With great deference to the opinion of other hon. Members, he was bound to say, the men of the world—men of practical acquaint-
 92
 Sir Robert Peel  would accede to any arrangement by which the minority of the inhabitants in the towns and boroughs would be saved from the effects of that partiality which must almost necessarily attach to persons appointed by the dominant party.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that he spoke only of those who were required to be elected. In Stroud the qualification of a Commissioner, under the local Act was 100 l. l. l. 102 l. l. 103 l. l. l., l. l. l. 104 l., l. l., l.
 Sir Robert Peel  rose to propose an Amendment which related to the qualification of those who were to be elected members of the town council, and to simplify his statement on the subject, he would divide it into two heads—first, as to whether there ought to be a qualification or not for members of the town council; and next, if there should be, what ought to be the nature of the qualification. He was aware that there were various opinions on the subject. Some persons thought that there ought to be no qualification whatever, but that the electors should be at liberty to elect whom they pleased, without any reference to property, while others were of opinion, that a certain qualification as to property was indispensable. He would not enter into any detail as to either of those opinions, for he had always found that, where disputed points of this kind were discussed, which turned more on theoretical principles than on facts, the discussion generally ended by leaving each party in the same opinion which he entertained when it began. He would, therefore, confine his remarks to what had been the usual practice in local enactments for many of our towns. He was quite aware that, according to ancient practice, no pecuniary qualifications were required for members of Corporations, but the usual words of the charters were that they should elect "fit, discreet, and respectable" persons to fill the corporate offices. No peculiar qualification was named beyond those general terms, but the spirit of the charters was, that persons fit for
 100 l. l. l. l. l. 101 l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Sir Robert Peel : The proposed system of Revising Barristers would be the best possible protection against unnecessary expense, for the parties who objected would be liable in part to the expense of the proceedings, which would be defrayed out of the Borough-rate.
 Sir Robert Peel , considering that the performance of the duties which devolved upon the Revising Barristers at present, would be almost simultaneous with those which they would have to execute according to the Amendment of his hon. Friend, he thought that the best course would be, to appoint Revising Barristers to revise also the lists of the burgesses. The expense, compared with the importance of the object accomplished by the regulation, would not be heavy. The noble Lord (Lord John Russell) had himself consented that the Revising Barristers should perform this duty for the present year. Why not at once give such a regulation the face of a permanent enactment, reserving to themselves the right of making such alterations as might be found necessary at any future time? The noble Lord would be afforded an opportunity, if he should think proper, of proposing a change in the next
 89
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that there was an impression entertained, either real or feigned—not so much, he believed, in that House as out of it, that there existed on the part of himself, and those with whom he acted, a desire to throw some obstruction in the way of the noble Lord's proceedings with reference to the Bill which the House was now about to consider. He begged to say, for himself, that he did not entertain any such feeling; that, on the contrary, he was most anxious to give every aid in his power to the noble Lord, on every occasion. He wished, indeed, that some arrangement could be adopted, by which a steady perseverance with the Bill might be insured. The plan of devoting an hour and a half one night, and two hours another night, was not one which admitted of their paying proper attention to the measure, and it insured the certain result of a succession of amendments being brought forward on the Report, which ought to have been made in the Committee. He knew well the inconvenience attending upon morning sittings, on account of the numerous Committees which were then engaged, and he did not, therefore, propose them; but if any arrangement could be made for going into Committee on this Bill regularly, on certain days, and at certain hours, so far from having any objection to it, he should be happy to see it adopted, and he was sure it would be most acceptable to all with whom he acted.
 Sir Robert Peel  thought that if we reposed so much confidence in the electing body as to fix no qualification for a councillor, on the same principle we ought to allow of the election of a person who had been a bankrupt, if the electors thought the individual had acted with integrity.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that by the Bill the electors were to have a qualification.
 Sir Robert Peel : You are bound to
 106
 Sir Robert Peel  suspected that the hon. and learned Gentleman was not quite correct as to the place in which this alteration of the qualification had taken place.
 Sir Robert Peel  would give no opinion now as to the mode in which charitable funds should be disposed of, reserving to himself the right to enter upon that subject in the proper Clause; but he thought, as the present Clause left such funds in hands of the common-council, the head of which was the mayor, who was also returning-officer of the borough, and as the Bill disqualified a person receiving assistance from the charitable trustees of the town from voting for the town-council, but did not disqualify a 10 l.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the noble Lord had reproached—no, he would not say reproached—but animadverted upon him for not having rested his case on some general train of reasoning; but had he not adduced a stream of concurring evidence to show that what he proposed would most conduce to the good government of the places to which this Bill was intended to apply? He had thought it better to refrain from adducing any authority except such as was founded upon general reasoning, but if the House wished for other precedents then he would refer them to one of great authority—he would refer them to a Bill brought in by the noble Lord himself—and when he heard the noble Lord pronouncing censure upon those who were unwilling to place implicit confidence in the electoral body—when he heard him talk about good government on the part of the governing body, because forsooth, the electoral body would only choose those in whom they could confide, he stared at the restrictions which he found on looking into the Act which the noble Lord had supported through that House, "for the better regulation of the affairs of the parishes of St. Giles's-in-the Fields, and St. George's, Bloomsbury." Here there was an excellent opportunity for the noble Lord to act upon his own principle; but had he done so? The noble Lord had now disclaimed all restrictions as unnecessary and uncalled for, on the ground that the governing body would be always controlled by the good sense of the electoral body; but was this the principle upon which the noble Lord's own Act was founded? The House would see. The Act to which he referred provided that one-half of those who should be eligible to vote for the election of vestrymen, churchwardens, and other parochial officers in the parishes of St. Giles's-in-the-Fields, and St. George's, Bloomsbury, or who, in execution of that Act, should, from time to time, be elected under it, should be resident householders in the parish, and rated to the relief of the poor in an annual assessment of the value of not less than—what did the House think? why, than 75 l. 118 l. l., l. l.
 Sir Robert Peel : Did the hon. Gentleman mean, then, to tell the House that there were only forty-eight persons in Portsmouth who were worth 1,000 l.
 Sir Robert Peel  quite agreed with the hon. Gentleman, that he had discussed this question in a very blind way. The hon. Gentleman had undertaken to explain his (Sir Robert Peel's) Amendment but how had he accomplished that task? Why, by leaving out of sight altogether the simple fact, that the Amendment gave the alternative of another qualification, namely, that of the possession of 1,000 l. l. l., l.
 Sir Robert Peel : Surely the hon. Gentleman does not mean to allude to the principal part of the Borough?
 Sir Samuel Whalley  said, it was very important they should have a tribunal of revision, without any party violence; and it seemed to him, that the giving to the predominant party in the borough the right of revising the votes, would be very much like giving to the majority in that House, the decision of contested elections. The tribunal should, as the right hon. Baronet had said, be final; and, therefore, it should be one in which all parties would place confidence, and composed of men well versed in the proceedings taken under the Reform Act. He knew no persons so well qualified for that task as the Revising Barristers; for there were many Clauses in the Act which would require men "learned in the law," as well as possessed of common sense, to give judgment upon.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  rose and said, there were other persons who thought fit to declare their scruples at making oaths, and it would be impossible to confine the restriction to Quakers, Moravians, and Separatists as the Clause stood. Any alteration, giving to a solemn declaration the legal obligation of an oath, should be confined to those persons who declared at the time their religious scruples against oths; if not so confined, it was really opening a door for getting rid of the oath with no restriction whatsoever. They could not doubt that there were particularly among the uneducated, many who would fear to swear falsely, but who would think there was some difference in making a declaration which might shield them from the legal consequences of false testimony. He thought it much better that the oath should be done away by a distinct Act than brought thus incidentally within an Act of that kind.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, that it would be much better to have the duties of revision performed by persons not at all connected with any local parties in the borough, such as the assessors would be when appointed by the majority of the counsel. It was extremely important that, in the performance of their duties, every appearance of partiality should be removed, and no ground left for a suspicion of it. He should propose an Amendment, therefore, to the effect, that in all the boroughs to which have been appointed Revising Barristers under the Reform Act, these duties of revision should be performed by them.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  observed, that it would be desirable to have a Board of three or five persons constituted, to decide in the last resort upon all disputed points, so as to insure an uniformity of decision.
 Lord Howick : No.
 Viscount Howick  was not surprised that the right hon. Baronet, with that skill and dexterity which never failed him when he found himself in an awkward position, had endeavoured to draw the attention of the Committee from the real point before them, by trying to get up a laugh against his noble Friend on a matter entirely inapplicable to the present Question. The right hon. Baronet did not attempt any answer to the point urged by his hon. Friend (Mr. Baring) in reference to such places as Portsmouth; nor had he met the observation of another hon. Member, who pressed him to state any general grounds for a qualification such as that, proposed. Both these points the right hon. Baronet thought it unsafe to handle, and, in lieu of entering upon them, he had entertained the Committee with a history of an Act relating to the joint parishes of St. Giles's-in-the-Fields and St. George's, Bloomsbury. The right hon. Baronet could not pretend to say that the uniform practice was in favour of a qualification, as would appear from a reference to Acts passed for the towns of Liverpool and Bristol. If the right hon. Gentleman's proposal were agreed to, the only consolation was, that under the qualification the Clause would be a dead letter, a result, however, which he did not think desirable, and he should therefore oppose the Amendment.
 Lord Sandon  said, that the original Charters provided, that persons elected to Corporate officers, should be fit and discreet persons, When those persons
 109 l. l. l. l.
 Lord Sandon  said, that the observations of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down must be considered just, if the principle that the majority can do no wrong were acknowledged. As, however, he had not the same implicit reliance on the impartiality or love of justice of the majority in all cases, he should vote for the Amendment.
 Lord Sandon  believed that the expense of the appointment of Revising Barristers for the purpose intended by his hon. Friend would be about 20,000 l., 93
 Mr. O'Connell  presented a Petition from inhabitants of Dublin, praying for an immediate Municipal Reform in Ireland. The hon. Member stated that the Report
 131 l. l.
 Mr. O'Connell  asserted positively that he was correct. He would tell the House how the hon. and learned Gentleman was wrong. The Bill of which he had spoken was not sent to the usual Grand Jury, but to the Grand Jury of the county of Dublin. He had a certified copy of the panel of the jurors. The Bill had been found under the statute called Lord Plunket's Act, and this certified copy of the panel contained the name of Sir Robert Shaw, and he certainly was on the jury.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the obstinacy of the hon. and learned Gentleman was no proof. He had the document he referred to, and would produce it tomorrow. The hon. and learned Gentleman then proceeded to read some papers, proving that the office of Mayor, the Chairman of the Court of Conscience, and the offices of Sub-Sheriffs in Dublin were farmed out, and that freemen were admitted, not of right, but of the special grace of the Corporation.
 Mr. O'Connell  repeated that Mr. Hudson had refused to act as his counsel, but he had lately heard that after that refusal he did act as a matter of courtesy for a day and a half, until Mr. Hulton was retained. He was not aware until lately that Mr. Hudson had even so far relaxed his positive refusal to be professionally engaged for him (Mr. O'Connell).
 Sir George Clerk  expressed his gratitude to the noble Lord for the tone and temper in which he had treated the Question. The noble Lord had, however, omitted, in the early part of his Motion, after the words "pastoral superintendence," some expressions suggested by the high authorities to which the noble Lord had alluded, recommending that an inquiry should also be instituted into the situation of chapels of ease and unendowed churches in Scotland.
 Mr. Villiers  said, he could not help thinking that, before so confident an opinion had been expressed by the noble Lord with respect to the evidence which had just been laid upon the Table, and before the hon. Baronet had complimented him for so doing, that it would have been more satisfactory to the House if time had been allowed for Members to have read the evidence themselves. He (Mr.Villiers) was not in a situation now, more than upon the last occasion when he addressed the House, to say whether the noble Lord was justified in the opinion that he had expressed respecting the conduct of the soldiers, and therefore he could merely say that, judging from the only evidence
 135
 An Hon. Member,  as a personal friend of Captain Manning, could state it to be the wish of that Gentleman that the evidence should be as soon as possible in the hands of hon. Members, in order that a decision might be formed upon his military conduct.
 Mr. Goulburn  moved an Amendment, to give to individuals in the different wards the power of voting for any property they might have in any of such wards.
 Sir William, Rae  was not willing to obstruct the general feelings of the House. The facts he had stated were not submitted to the House without sufficient authority. The period of the Session was certainly late at which the Question was brought forward, but he trusted that the fault of delay would not be attributed to him. As the Government had agreed to that part of the Address to the Crown which related to the Church of Scotland, he thought it but fit to wait and see whether the Government meant to bring forward any Measure on the subject. They had not done so, and on account of the numerous petitions he had received on the subject he felt himself bound to bring the matter, though
 153
 Mr. O'Malley  was accordingly called to the Bar.
 An Hon. Member  said, that he himself had been elected to a parochial office by Ballot.
 An Hon. Member  moved as an Amendment, that in case of an equality of votes between any two or more of the candidates for the office of Councillor, the Mayor shall draw by lot the requisite number, instead of nominating the successful candidate.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  said, that he had prepared a Clause on the subject, but was willing to leave the matter in the hands of his noble Friend and his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney-General, who no doubt would frame a Clause much better than he could do.
 Lord Stanley  said, that he intended to call the attention of the Committee to a most important point, namely, the principle on which the Government intended to act in proposing that his Majesty in Council should have the power of dividing a borough into wards. This point involved three important principles—first, whether it was intended to propose that any borough should be divided into any number of wards which his Majesty in Council thought proper; secondly, on what principles his Majesty's advisers intended to propose to fix the boundaries of these wards; and thirdly, whether it was intended for the
 165 166 167
 Mr. Goulburn  thought the difficulty started by his hon. Friend was very likely to occur, and would recommend the subject to the serious consideration of the noble Lord.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  said, that he had an Amendment to propose, to the effect that all persons now holding offices in Corporations should continue to hold them until persons were elected under the provisions of this Act to succeed them. He did not think that provision had been made in the Bill for this purpose.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the principle of the Clause being a division of the popular boroughs into wards, he did not see that there could be any reasonable objection to the proposition being taken into consideration.
 Lord Francis Egerton  thought that the adoption of the Ballot in Municipal Elections would occasion considerable turbulence and confusion. He preferred trusting to the prophecies of his Majesty's Ministers relative to the peaceable and admirable manner in which they would be conducted under the arrangement proposed by them. He feared the persons elected to the Council would be required to pledge themselves to the adoption of the Ballot.
 Lord John Russell  opposed the Amendment, and it was negatived without a division.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the objections of the hon. Member for Liskeard to the Clause as it stood were inconsistent with each other. One of his objections was, that as the Clause stood, there would be great agitation and excitement to get the office of Town-Councilman; whilst another was, that its duties would be so onerous, that it was a hardship upon individuals to be obliged to serve for three years against their will. Another objection of the hon. Member was, that the two-thirds who remained in office would elect the one-third to be elected by a kind of house-list; but this objection was also answered by the assumption of the hon. Member, that there would be great anxiety out of doors to become members of the Council. He had not heard any thing, therefore, to make him doubt that the system proposed to be established by the Bill would work well in practice.
 Lord John Russell  observed that he had a proviso to propose at the end of this Clause, which he thought would meet the objection of his hon. Friend.
 Lord John Russell  observed, that there was no doubt that the principle was of great practical importance on the working of the Bill. It was a question of practical detail, rather than one involving a principle. He was disposed to go to the extent of stating, that he was willing to consider whether the plan of dividing towns into wards containing a less population than 25,000 inhabitants could be adopted. His noble Friend asked, what principle his Majesty's Government intended to adopt with reference to dividing a borough into wards? In the first place, it would depend on the wealth and population of a place. Undoubtedly they would to a considerable extent adopt the principle of population in making a ward —that was, they would not do so unless it contained a certain extent of population. The course, however, they would adopt would depend to a great degree on the circumstances of different classes. For instance, if a place were now divided into three or four parishes, it would depend upon the circumstances of the case, whether that division would be continued. If this arrangement could be continued advantageously, there could be no reason why this should not be done. He should be sorry to divide a borough into wards, when the number of voters were so few that they were likely to be influenced. If this were the case, it would produce a jealous feeling which would be most pernicious. As the case now stood, his Majesty's Ministers would be guided by the circumstances of each town, and the wealth and population of it. He was not
 168
 Lord John Russell  observed that the hon. Member had put an extreme case when he talked of 200 or 300 names appearing in the voting papers. He thought that less than 100 names would probably be inserted, but, admitting that some practical inconvenience might arise, he promised that the point should receive his attention.
 Lord John Russell : In moving that the minutes of evidence which I have just laid on the Table be printed, I shall answer the question which the right hon. Gentleman has put to me. It is quite true that this inquiry was instituted in consequence of a wish, and what appeared to me to be a very general wish, expressed on the part of the House. I stated at the time that the inquiry was an unusual one, and that objections might be urged to such a course of proceeding, but that at the same time the wish of the House appeared to me so manifest, that I thought it my duty to agree to it. The inquiry accordingly was instituted; Sir Frederick Roe proceeded to Wolverhampton, and with that knowledge of evidence, and with that judgment in points such as those which were likely to be brought before him, for which he is so remarkable, he conducted it, I believe, to the satisfaction of the inhabitants of that town. On his return to London he informed me that there was one part of the inquiry into which he had not gone fully—namely, that respecting the conduct of Captain Manning in dividing his troop, amounting to about thirty men, into small bodies for the purpose of patrolling. He informed me that he considered that to be a military matter, and one on which it was not competent for him to enter. In consequence of that communication, in order that Captain Manning might not want the means of stating every thing which he desired to state in reference to the part which he had performed at Wolverhampton, I wrote to the Commander-in-Chief, requesting that I might obtain information on those points which Sir F. Roe had not thought it his duty to investigate. I received an answer from Lord Hill on the following day, containing the replies of Captain Manning to the questions put to him on the execution of his duty as a military man. I consider that this inquiry has been undertaken at the wish of the House of Commons, and I now merely lay both the whole of the evidence taken before Sir Frederick Roe, and the answers of Captain Manning, before the House; but if it be thought necessary by any Member of the House to raise any further question upon the subject, I shall then be prepared to give the reasons on which I ground the decided opinion which I enter-
 134
 Lord John Russell  rose for the purpose of moving an Amendment to the Motion which had been made on a former occasion. I shall not (said the noble Lord) enter into the consideration of the various arguments which may be adduced on one side or on the other of the Question involved in it; but I wish to address the House, in consequence of communications which I have had with various parties to whom the question is one of the greatest importance—both those who urged the propriety of this grant to the Church of Scotland, and those who have felt the strongest objections to its being made. I have the satisfaction of stating, that both parties appeared to me to be perfectly willing to have a full and fair inquiry into the subject, and quite ready to abide by the result of facts accurately ascertained, and that they were both willing that this inquiry should be conducted by a Commission,—the one party seeming to think it better than a Committee, and the other seeming to think it quite as good and effectual. A difference appeared to arise between the two parties on this point—those who were seceders from the Church of Scotland said, that they had been unjustly and unfairly omitted from the accounts which had been made of the population now able to attend divine worship. Whether such may be the case or not, those who appear on the part of the Church of Scotland in this metropolis, and who lately presented an Address to his Majesty on the throne, are perfectly willing that an account should be taken of all the means and opportunities of public worship which are afforded; so that in this material point there does not seem to be any difference between the two parties. There is, however, a question—partly of fact and partly of principle—which still remains to be decided. Those who are in favour of this grant urge, that when you have taken into account all those means of accommodation which the Established Church of Scotland is able to afford, and when you have added to them those means of worship and means of instruction which are now afforded by the seceding or dissenting ministry, there remains still a large mass of the population to whom no sufficient
 137 138 139
 Lord John Russell  was happy to find that there really was no difference between the right hon. Baronet's object and his own. The right hon. Baronet approved of the reference of the subject to a Commission, rather than to a Committee of that House. As to recognising the claims of the Church of Scotland, he was as ready to recognise them as the right hon. Baronet; and, on the other hand, he was happy to find that the right hon. Baronet was as sensible of the valuable assistance rendered to the cause of religion by the Dissenters as he (Lord John Russell) was. It was a fact which ought never to be lost sight of, either in England or in Scotland, that where the State Establishment did not furnish sufficient means of religious worship for the people, it was exceedingly desirable that the deficiency should be supplied by other bodies. He did not, therefore, lament to see the growth of dissent in large towns, where the means of religious worship under the Establishment were insufficient; or that the ground which the Church was unable to occupy should be taken up by others. With respect to the manner and the nature of the inquiry, there was no difference between the right hon. Baronet and himself. As to the Amendment proposed by the right hon. Baronet, a similar one had been recommended to him since he came down to the House, which he had declined adopting, because the Motion which he had offered to the House had been drawn up in the words of high authorities in the Church of Scotland. He had no positive objection to the words proposed by the right hon. Baronet; but, for the reason which he had already stated, he must decline consenting to their introduction.
 Lord John Russell  presented copies of the minutes taken before Sir F. Roe, at Wolverhampton.
 Colonel Perceval  rose, to call attention to the case alluded to the other night, respecting Mr. Hudson. The fact was, that there were two gentlemen employed as counsel by the hon. and learned Gentleman. (Mr. O'Connell), Mr. Hulton, and Mr. Hudson. He had received a letter
 132
 Mr. Charles Buller  rose to move the Amendment of which he had given notice. He said, that there was no one more inclined than he was to aid the progress of the Bill. He wished to place no obstruction in its way, nor did he wish to place the Government in an unpopular predicament. After the discussion that had taken place last night, he must briefly offer his objections to the mode of election of the Town-Council as proposed by the Bill. He objected to the partial renewal annually of the Council. Partial elections, whether for Parliamentary or Municipal purposes, were bad in practice, and contrary to the rights of the people. He was much pleased with the liberal observations that had fallen on the preceding evening from the right hon. Baronet the Member for Nottingham, who was for giving the people full power over elections. He hoped that that power would not be permitted to be neutralized by the present Clause, and he was of opinion that frequent elections would not lead to any dangerous excitement. By the present plan of election, the people would, after all, have only a triennial control over their representatives in the Council, and there would be an additional disadvantage, namely, the annual excitement that would follow a partial election of the Council. The system of partial election had been tried by the Act for parochial government, of which the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Hobhouse) was the author. From accounts he had received, that Act caused a worse effect than even he had anticipated from it. It caused greater excitement every year than if the whole body of the vestry were elected at once. It took three years to turn them all out, and during that time all the excitement prevailed that might be disposed of in one year. A person belonging to the parish of St. Pancras had furnished him with highly valuable information as to the working of the plan of partial annual election. That person stated that the first objection to such a plan was, that it placed too much power in the hands of those who were already elected. With respect to the vestry alluded to, there was a house-list always handed about, and the weight of the two-thirds of the members that remained in was always sufficient to secure the re-election of the one-third
 156 bonâd fide  157
 Mr. Cumming Bruce  was not sure that he could agree to the Amendment which the noble Lord proposed to substitute, though the spirit in which it was introduced was much less objectionable than that which breathed in the speech of the Lord Advocate, in introducing his proposal for a Commission. There was no distinct mention of the Established Church. He disapproved also of the reference to present or future means which are or may be applicable to the support of religion. This was an attempt to throw a firebrand in between the landlords and the Church. It would not succeed. But he disapproved of the attempt. He must say that after the speech on Friday last, of the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, he felt less disposed to place confidence in any proposal of the Government which professed to proceed on the ground of attachment to the Established Church. He had admired the tone, and cheered the beautiful periods of that noble Lord's speech, in which so strong an attachment was declared for the principle of an Establishment, that it should be extended so that the wayfaring man might hear of it and rejoice. But what was the fulfilment of this magnificent promise? What the miserable superstructure raised on this grandiloquent foundation? Why a 5 l. 140 141 142 143 144 145 "To shape new channels which the flood Of sacred truth may enter, till it brood O'er the wide realm, as o'er the Egyptian plain The all-sustaining Nile." 146
 Colonel Sibthorp  moved an Amendment, the object of which was to give the burgesses the power of choosing what Councilmen should retire, and to prevent those who retired from being re-elected for three years.
 Mr. Shaw : He certainly was not.
 Mr. Shaw  did not believe that the Mayor's judicial duties were farmed, and he was sure that the arrangement of the Sheriffs could not be fairly termed farming. The Corporation had indeed admitted persons to their freedom on the grounds of birth and servitude, but they claimed the exercise of discretion in conferring the right. He also took the opportunity of informing the House, in opposition to what had been said by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin on a former night, that his (Mr. Shaw's) father was not foreman of the Grand Jury which had ignored certain bills for bribery—Mr. Stubbs was the foreman of that Grand Jury, his father had nothing to do with it.
 Mr. Grote  under existing circumstances would consent, though with considerable reluctance, to withdraw his Motion. He hoped he had done his duty to a principle which he considered of paramount importance. With regard to the adoption of the Ballot in parochial elections, he could state, on the authority of one of the Churchwardens, that it was adopted in Mary-le-bonne.
 Mr. Grote  said, that the periods during which the Common Councilmen of London held their seats afforded a striking refutation of the argument against annual elections, founded on the inconvenience of having every year a large number of new and unpractised members. The Common Council of London consisted of 140
 158
 Mr. Grote  rose to move the Amendment of which he had given notice, and in doing so, he assured the noble Lord that he was ready to do him ample justice for many of the provisions, and for what he anticipated would be the admirable effect, of this Bill. He could not, however, but express his sincere regret that the principle of the Vote by Ballot was not recognised by the Bill. Considering, as he did, that secret suffrage was the only way to ensure entire freedom from coercion to the honest elector, and as the best method also of debarring the dishonest voter from getting so high a price for his vote as he otherwise might do, he much regretted that it was not introduced into this Bill. He said this, however, more in the way of regret than in the way of complaint. The Amendment which he now proposed to lay upon the Table, did not in the least touch or infringe upon the general principle of the Bill. If his Amendment were adopted, the method of voting which the House had lately sanctioned by its decision would be still open to these Municipal Corporations. There would, however be an option given to the Town Council of those Corporations, if they
 160 161
 Mr. Sinclair  cordially approved of the Motion and hoped the inquiry would be carried to the fullest extent.
 Mr. Aglionby  made the same suggestion, and observed that the mere fact of the metropolitan parishes not having adopted the Ballot proved how safely the alternative might be left to them.
 Sir H. Hardinge : I am sure that the House and the public, and the profession to which I have the honour to belong, will entertain the universal feeling that nothing can be more satisfactory, more manly, and more straight-forward than the explanation of the noble Lord.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said—having previously communicated to the noble Lord my intention of putting a question to him on this subject, I shall take the opportunity of doing so at once. It will be in the recollection of the House that when the matter was last before it, certain reflections were cast upon the military in reference to their conduct at Wolverhampton, and that the noble Lord was induced by these reflections to change his original intention of having no inquiry, and to institute an inquiry, of which the papers he has just laid on the Table are the result. I shall not press the noble Lord to give an immediate answer to the question which I am about to put; but I must express my opinion that it is desirable for the maintenance of due discipline in the army that men who have been made to labour under disadvantages such as those under which the military engaged at Wolverhampton are now labouring, should be allowed to remain exposed to them for as short a time as possible. I would also say that I think it incumbent on the executive Government of the country not to allow the House of Commons to usurp their functions, but to give an opinion of their own upon a matter such as this. I trust, therefore, that the noble Lord will at some period give me an opinion on the part of
 133
 Mr. Warburton  wondered the noble Lord could entertain any such fear when they were told that the system was un-English and opposed to the habits of the people. The fact, however, was, that the Ballot had been adopted with great success in many parishes.
 Mr. Warburton  repeated that if he had been correctly informed, it had been adopted with great success in several metropolitan parishes. He would propose that if any voter should subscribe his name to the list as having voted for a particular party, his vote should be void.
 The Speaker  addressed him to the following effect:—"William Frederick O'Malley, this House has found that you have been guilty of aiding and abetting a witness in absconding to avoid giving his testimony before a
 154
 Mr. Barlow Hoy  expressed his surprise that any proposition should be made for the introduction of a secret mode of voting into a Bill the professed object of which was to do away with secret and close practices.
 Mr. Barlow Hoy  moved, as an Amendment, "That the votes at elections for the Council be taken openly, in the manner now usual at elections for Members to serve in Parliament."
 Mr. Barlow Hoy  had intended to propose an Amendment, that all towns containing 15,000 inhabitants, should be divided into wards; but the Amendment of the noble Lord fully met his views on the subject.
 Mr. Stewart Mackenzie  supported the Motion, and could but express his great satisfaction at the conciliating tone adopted in the debate.
 Dr. Bowring  said, that he would cheerfully consent to the nomination of the Commission; but he hoped that the Dissenters of Scotland would not be annoyed by the use of language offensive to them.
 Mr. Kearsley  hoped the noble Lord would not for one moment listen to the hon. Member for Middlesex, or to any hon. Member on that (the Ministerial) bench; he trusted, that he would rather allow himself to be led by the good sense of the noble Lord who had moved the Amendment, having in view the good of the country. He feared, however, that if the noble Lord relied on the noble Secretary of State, he would depend upon a broken reed; he had no hesitation in saying, that he believed the noble Lord would find that the noble Secretary of State for the Home Department was weak in his knees.
 Mr. Walter  observed, that having the honour of Captain Manning's acquaintance he would venture to assert that a more humane, considerate, and prudent man did not exist.
 Mr. Hume  hoped, that the noble Lord would not agree to the proposition that had been made.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  informed the House that Mr. O'Malley was in attendance. He moved that he be called to the Bar to be reprimanded and discharged.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, that Dr. Farr and another medical gentleman were in attendance to give evidence upon the state of Mr. O'Malley's health. It had been endeavoured to obtain the attendance of Sir Astley Cooper, but that had been found impossible. The learned Sergeant then moved that Dr. Farr be called in.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  rose, and asked if it were the wish of the House that any other medical gentleman should attend? He would then at once move that Mr. O'Malley be called to the Bar, and discharged on payment of his fees.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  hoped that, as it was not practically important, the right hon. Baronet would withdraw his Amendment. It was at the request of persons concerned in the matter, and who were fully competent to judge of it, that the address before the House was adopted by his Majesty's Government. Though the words proposed to be left out were agreed to, it would cause no great alteration as to the leading objects for which the Commission was about to be appointed. It appeared to him, from the speech of the noble Lord, that the people of Scotland would be completely satisfied with what was proposed to be done by Government. The object of the proposed inquiry was, not to trench on the rights of the Dissenters of Scotland—not to interfere with their usefulness—and he felt confident that they would have no objection to it. What was intended was, to provide religious instruction and places of worship for that moral wilderness of population who came neither under the influence of the Dissenters nor of the Established Church. He thought this Commission would provide the very best means that could be devised for that purpose. He agreed with the right hon. Baronet that the period of the Session was too late to have recourse to a Committee. He begged to thank the Government and the House for the kind
 152
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, that he had given notice of his intention to move alterations in this Clause, to the effect that the Mayor should appoint scrutineers for each parish in the Borough to assist him in examining the voting papers, for the purpose of ascertaining which of the several persons voted for were elected. He had been restrained from so doing by the introduction into the Clause of two Assessors to assist the Mayor. He could not however, suffer the Clause to pass the Committee without suggesting to the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, that the time allowed for examining the voting papers and declaring the numbers was far too limited. By way of illustrating this point, he would state that in Oxford the number of electors under the Bill was estimated at 3,000, so that, even if the number of thirty-three Councillors allotted to that City in the schedule should not be increased, no fewer than 99,000 votes might be recorded. Every one of the 3,000 electors would have it in his power to put upon his voting paper the names of any thirty-three persons whom he pleased to select, whether candidates for the office or not, and therefore 200 or 300 different names would very probably appear on the voting papers. Now he would put it to the noble Lord whether, taking these circumstances into consideration, and that the poll, under a former Clause, was not to close till four o'clock on the day of Election, the declaration of the numbers should be required to be made so soon as two o'clock on the next day. It would be next to impossible to classify the names and cast up the votes, so as to make the declaration of the result with accuracy at two o'clock of the succeeding day, even though the Mayor and his two Assessors should sit up for the purpose the whole of the intervening night. But he had not by any means put an extreme case. The inconvenience would operate still more forcibly in larger towns, where both the number
 164
 Mr. Williams (Coventry)  mentioned the case of the Common Council of the city of London, as an illustration that no possible inconvenience or practical objection could arise from the adoption of the proposed Amendment. That body was elected annually, and had the management of funds to the amount of 400,000 l.
 Mr. Ward  meant to impute no dereliction of principle to the Government when he said that if the Amendment were pressed to a division he should support it. After the observations of the right hon. Baronet, however, he hoped the hon. Member for London would consent to withdraw his Motion.
 The Attorney-General  allowed that if the elections were annual, there was every probability the old members would be re-elected; but still there was a possibility for which they must legislate, he meant sudden convulsions in the political world, that might cause the whole body of the Common Council to be changed. This would not be a trifling evil, when it was recollected how much more severe their labours would be under the new than they had been under the old system. They would have to manage all the local affairs of their respective towns, they would have to administer their property, to direct the paving, lighting, watering, and watching of their streets, all of them functions of a complicated and onerous nature, requiring experience in those who discharged them. The proposition contained in the Bill, on the other hand, was not a speculative experiment; for it had been tried in Scotland, and, as far as it had been tried, had succeeded to admiration.
 The Attorney-General  said, that the adoption of such a principle would cause the Bill to become exceedingly unpopular.
 The Attorney-General  rejoiced in the right hon. Baronet's determination. He rose, however, to correct a statement made the other evening by the hon. Baronet, to the effect that such had been the rapid growth of infidelity in the city which he(the Attorney General) had the honour to represent, that not an eighth part of the population at present received religious instruction. So far was that from being the case, that he believed there never was a period at which piety and religion more extensively prevailed in the metropolis of Scotland than at the present moment.
 Sir John Hobhouse  again stated, that no one parish had availed itself of the provision in his Bill which gave them the power of adopting the Ballot.
 Sir John Hobhouse  believed that it had not been adopted in any one instance.
 Sir John Hobhouse  said, that in preparing a great measure like the present, and in endeavouring to attain the best mode of carrying it into execution, it was perfectly impossible that they could fall in with all the modes proposed by every individual Member. He entreated the cordial co-operation of the House, and he made no complaint of the reception the Bill had received, because it certainly had met with a very fair share of support; but if Gentlemen whom they had the pleasure of seeing on those (the Ministerial) benches really meant well to the Bill, he implored them to merge their own minor differences of opinion, to stand by the Government, and support the great principles of the Bill.
 Sir Robert Peel,  being unwilling to disturb the tone and temper which had hitherto prevailed on this occasion, and understanding that the Motion was admitted to contain a recognition of the principle for which he had contended, felt that he should best perform his public duty by not pressing his Amendment to a division.
 Sir Robert Peel  observed, that all he wished for was, that the Church of Scotland should be placed on the same footing as the Church of England.
 Sir Robert Peel : If the Motion of my right hon. Friend had been brought before the House at an earlier period of the Session, considering his high authority, I should have had no difficulty whatever in expressing my preference of it to the Amendment which has been moved. But I cannot omit from my consideration the time in which we are to decide upon it. On the 1st of July it is that we are called upon to go into an inquiry, and at this late period I feel that it is impossible to come to any conclusion which will lead to a vote of the public money. Two months ago I should not have hesitated to prefer the original Motion, but at this advanced period I cannot but think that the inquiry byCommission will be more satisfactory than the appointment of a Committee for the same purpose. I am afraid that the appointment of a Committee would lead to a double inquiry, that, at the termination of their labours, the Committee would find it expedient to recommend that a Commission of Inquiry should be instituted. In short, the result would be the same as that of the Corporation Committee. After spending much time in fruitless investigation, the Committee would find themselves unable to come to any satisfactory conclusion—a Committee of Local Investigation would, from its expense, be out of the question—and the only course left would be to appoint that Commission of Inquiry, which, if it is to be ultimately recommended, had better be appointed at once. I find it impossible to throw the present time out of consideration, and, therefore, I am inclined to prefer the full investigation of the matter by a Commission to its consideration by a Committee. There is a slight difference in opinion—slight in terms, but important
 147 nemine contradicente. 148 149 150
 Viscount Howick  was rather at a loss to understand the right hon. Baronet's precise object. His noble Friend's Motion, as it at present stood, comprehended both the Church of Scotland and the Dissenters from that Church. Why introduce words which might be construed into a limitation of the inquiry in a manner in which the right hon. Baronet himself, according to his statement, did not wish to see it limited? Being all agreed on the principle of the
 151
 Mr. O'Connell  asked whether it was compulsory on the Clerks of the Peace to accept their offices? If not, they certainly should discharge the duties of the office.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  desired to know if any public officers could disobey the orders of that House until they were first paid for their services? Surely every public officer held office subject to the
 185
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer , in consequence of what had fallen from his hon. Friend, gave notice that if the Returns for Carnarvon were not made within a fortnight, he should move that the Clerk of the Peace for that county should be summoned to the Bar of the House.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  suggested that the better way to regulate the matter
 186
 Mr. Gilbert Heathcote  hoped the interests of the counties would be taken into consideration. Hon. Gentlemen were not aware of the heavy expense of those Returns. He had seen a Clerk of the Peace's account, one-fourth of which, and they were heavy, was caused by the Returns ordered by the House. If these Returns were necessary for the general service of the public, they ought to be paid for by the public, and not by the counties.
 Mr. Goulburn  suggested that a provision be made for those parties who were put to very great expense.
 Lord Stanley  rose to move his Amendment of this Clause, which was to the effect, that the Town Clerks hereafter to be appointed should have a tenure of office during good behaviour. The noble Lord opposite (Lord John Russell) had made some alteration in the Clause as it originally stood; but the effect of that alteration would be that the question of the propriety of continuing the Town Clerk in his office would be one annually submitted for the decision of the Council. Now, the Amendment which he meant to propose was directed towards the attainment of a very different purpose—namely, that when a respectable individual, one well qualified to fill the office of Town Clerk, was once appointed, he should not be subject to removal at the caprice or wish of a certain portion of a constantly fluctuating body, such as the proposed Council was intended to be. He did not propose his Amendment with any view of affecting by it the appointment of the other officers of the proposed bodies to which the Clause referred; but he was decidedly of opinion that when the Town Clerk was once chosen, he ought not to be exposed to the chance of dimissal but should he allowed to retain his office, except some charge of misconduct were proved against him. There might, perhaps be even some restrictions beneficially imposed on the powers which the Council would possess with respect to other officers of those Municipal bodies; but with regard to the Town Clerk, he was one, of all others, whose tenure of office it was desirable to have as permanent as possible. For what were the duties of the Town Clerk? He was aware that those duties would
 190 191 192
 Lord Stanley  observed, that the arguments on the other side altogether made in favour of his proposition. They were encouraging the doctrine, that the office of Town Clerk should be a political office. They were now canvassing on the relative strength of parties. They were making a legal and professional office a political and party office. The result of the canvass was not to be determined by the personal and professional character of the candidate, but by his politics and his party zeal, and the office was to be obtained by the man's political adhesion to the dominant party at the time being in the borough. They told him, that if the borough generally changed its politics, it would be a good ground for changing the Town Clerk; and now they, in fact, offered it as a prize for political support. The appointment would be a standing job. He did not say this with reference to the Representative in that House, for which it would be too contemptible, but with respect to Corporations. They were on the system proposed laying it down as a foundation for truckling for borough office upon political grounds. The Town Clerk would have to look anxiously to every change of politics in the Council, to every, the minutest, change in the Government. They would be laying the foundation of corruption in that which they desired to have pure. If they wished to have the office filled by respectable professional men, who would occasionally, be it remembered, have to do unpopular work, they should accede to his proposition. Suppose the Town Clerk was concerned for the borough in any legal affairs against any influential political persons there, how was he to execute his duties? The local affairs of the borough must in such a case infallibly suffer. He really would beg to appeal to the good sense of his noble Friend opposite. His noble Friend's Government would have the first appointments which would be made under the excitement of change, and in the full freshness of odium against the old Tory Corporations. He, therefore, could only wish to preserve the Friends of the existing Government in office, for they would be elected till they misconducted
 198 Tulk:
 The Chairman  suggested, that the noble Lord's object would be better attained by moving, that the words "Town Clerk" be left out.
 Lord Stanley  adopted the suggestion.
 The Attorney General  said, that in many Corporations the Town Clerk was now appointed annually, but, notwithstanding this, was, if he conducted himself properly, constantly re-elected year after year. As to the functions of a Town Clerk they were Ministerial. They were analogous to those of the Clerks of the House. It was not necessary that the Town Clerk should be the Solicitor for the Corporation. He did not think the Town Clerk ought also to be the Solicitor. He should say, too, that if the Town Clerk had Municipal functions to discharge, he should go out with the change of his party. It was true, as the right hon. Baronet observed, that there was a case of an officer's continuing to hold his place under a new Government, differing widely from that which preceded it. He blushed to say, that he knew one instance in which an Attorney-General did remain in office after his friends had left power. But he could assure the right hon. Baronet that no consideration would have induced the Law Officers of the Government which preceded the right hon. Baronet's to continue to hold their places under his Administration. [ A voice, "mere you asked
 Mr. William Williams Coventry : In
 199 l. l.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought the noble Lord was quite right in not wishing to have the appointment of the Town Clerk made a job. The question was, whether the appointment as proposed in the Clause, would or would not be a job. Certain he was, at all events, that if this officer were to be appointed during good behaviour, it would become a permanent job. If this were to be the arrangement the Town Clerk would be the master, instead of the servant, of the Council. The noble Lord, in speaking of the Council, and especially of the appointment of the Town Clerk, had spoken of it as a job too contemptible for that House to deal with. "I should be glad to know (continued the learned Gentleman) if any job can be too contemptible for this House to deal with. I should be glad to know how the noble Lord, sitting where he now does, can talk of any job as too contemptible, for what job was too contemptible, for those around the noble Lord to deal with? The noble Lord should not speak in this strain.
 Lord Stanley  (who sat on the Opposition Bench) said: The words which I used were "too contemptible to have the Members of this House affected by, and therefore unknown to them."
 Mr. O'Connell : What the noble Lord said was, "too contemptible to think of."
 Lord Stanley : I ask the hon. and learned Gentleman to explain what he means.
 Mr. O'Connell : I mean precisely what I say.
 Lord Stanley : Sir, I wish to know what is the meaning which the hon. and learned Gentleman attaches to his words in the face of the House; and in the face of the House I demand an explanation of them. I have a right to stand on my character, when that character is assailed publicly; I am bound to defend it particularly when the attack comes from one who neither here nor elsewhere is prepared to vindicate his assertion. I have a right to ask what
 200
 Mr. O'Connell : I congratulate the noble Lord on his extreme valour. I rejoice at it. If he had attended to my words, and repeated them correctly, there would not have been the least occasion for this ebullition.
 Lord Stanley : Then let the hon. and learned Gentleman repeat his words.
 Mr. O'Connell : I asked, whether there was any job too contemptible for the side of the House, on which the noble Lord sits, to think of.
 Lord Stanley : I rise to order, I wish to know whether it is consistent with the observance of order in this House, that any hon. Member sitting in the place in which the hon. and learned Member sits, can speak of "any job as being too contemptible to think of?"
 Mr. O'Connell : If the noble Lord had allowed me to finish, he would have seen that there was no necessity for his interruption. I added to my former remark, that I did not see how, sitting in the place in which the noble Lord sat—I wondered how he could consider any job as being too contemptible to think of. I said that, and I repeat it.
 Mr. O'Connell : I did not attack individuals, but of a side of the House. I did not charge the noble Lord particularly with adopting jobs, though from the violence with which he met my observation it would appear that he for the first time consented to pass a thought on them, however he may desire to have us imagine that a thought about them could never enter his mind. I go further—I put the case individually, and I ask whether every man of us would not be more likely to become permanent jobbers if we had a permanent tenure of our seats here. The noble Lord's argument that these Councils being political Councils, should therefore choose their officers according to their political opinions, was not a sound one. Politics might occasionally interfere with their proceedings, but they would be generally constructed with a view to local interests or urban purposes. If, however, you have permanent Town Clerks,
 201
 Lord Stanley  regretted to interfere, even for the shortest possible time, with the regular and orderly proceedings of the Committee; but he trusted that, under the peculiar circumstances of the case, the Committee would bear with him if he alluded to the attack which had been made by the hon. and learned Member for the City of Dublin on himself personally, and on the body of Members in that House from whom he differed in some points, and with whom he agreed in others, but by whom it so happened, by the arrangement of the House, that he was surrounded. The hon. and learned Member for the City of Dublin had spoken of him as sitting on that (the Opposition) side, and had coupled that remark with an accusation which he trusted it was quite unnecessary for him to take the trouble of throwing off in that House, and of which he should certainly take no other notice. But as the personal attack thus made upon him, although of no importance in that House, might be considered so out of doors, where the circumstances of a Member sitting in one place, or sitting in another place, was not so well understood, he would trouble the Committee with a few words on the subject. At the commencement of the present Session of Parliament, and when the country was under a different Administration, he had felt it his duty to adopt the line of conduct prescribed to him by his conscience and his feelings. Being unable altogether to agree with the then existing Ministers, and yet being determined to manifest towards them no factious or violent opposition, he had taken that place in the House which was considered a post of neutrality between contending parties. On a change taking place in the Government he maintained the same place and the same determination; and, so far as he could do so, consistently with his own opinions, he had shown no hostility to the Government of his noble Friend. But some observations which had been lately
 202 Hear.! 203
 The Solicitor-General  begged to remind the hon. Member for Boston that the Town Clerk, treasurer, and other officers had to give security, and that no money could be paid except upon an order made by the Council, which would make the responsible officers take care that the order was in proper form.
 Mr. Parker  said, that the licensing was a part of our system of police, and as the police was put under the control of the Town Council, he could see no reason why the
 214
 Sir George Clerk  wished to put it to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether such a Bill would be advantageous to Ireland?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had rather reserve his opinion upon it till it should be in the hands of Members.
 Mr. Goulburn  protested against the deviations from the ordinary mode of proceeding on Bills of that kind: they were attended with very dangerous consequences. Bills were introduced without any reference to the object they had in contemplation, they got upon the order-list: deferred night after night till they came to the morning Session and then were passed, stage after stage, without any one knowing any thing about them; so that they got into the statute-book before they were aware that such measures were in existence.
 Mr. Cressett Pelham  thought the circumstance which had just taken place highly important—so important, indeed, that he did not consider it right, in justice either to himself or to the House, to allow it to pass unnoticed. The question was, whether lion. Members were to come there to be the servile slaves of a party. He conceived that he had a perfect right to take his place in whatever part of the House he chose. It had happened to him to change his seat; and in his experience he had seen hon. Gentlemen change their seats very often. He was sorry to hear a noble Lord apply the term "puppets" to Town-Clerks. It was but justice to his constituents at Shrewsbury to say that that was not the case in that town. At the same time he thought a Town-Clerk should not be a political Town-Clerk.
 Mr. Fox Maule  said, that the Clerks of the Peace for Buckingham and the West Riding of Yorkshire had promised to make the Returns. A partial promise had been obtained from the Clerks of the Peace for the county of Pembroke; but the Clerk of the Peace for Carnarvon, although he had the Returns made up, refused to give them unless his expenses were secured. He had, in his official capacity, called on the Clerk of the Peace three times for the Returns, but he refused, and declared his determination to abide the alternative of meeting any consequences.
 Mr. Fox Maule  brought up Returns of the Justices of the Peace in the several counties in England and Wales—also of the Clerks of the Peace for the several counties, and also of the number of Licenses granted to Victuallers in March, 1834, &c. The hon. Member stated that no Returns had been received from the Clerks of the Peace for the county of Buckingham, the West Riding of Yorkshire, the counties of Pembroke and Carnarvon. He begged leave therefore, to move that the House should order that those Returns be forthwith made.
 Lord John Russell  moved the Order of the Day for the House to go into a Committee on the Municipal Corporation Reform Bill.
 Lord John Russell  was understood to say that the subject should be taken into consideration.
 Lord John Russell  was of opinion that the removal of oaths in every case in which it was possible tended to strengthen the efficacy of those oaths which were allowed to remain. He did not think the present one of the cases in which an oath ought to be retained. As the hon. Baronet did not
 189
 Lord John Russell  said, that he proposed to make an alteration in the Clause, by which, after the word "borough," the words "every year," should be inserted. The effect of this alteration would be, that the officers who filled those situations specified in the Clause would be removable at the expiration of each year. It was intended, however, that though this power was conferred on the Council, it should not be exercised except on such grounds as imperatively called for their interference.
 Lord John Russell  certainly thought that the officer in question could not be appointed under this Clause, but a Clause must be introduced for that purpose.
 Lord John Russell  thought that the adoption of this Amendment might be productive of inconvenience in this way,—that when the business to be transacted in the Council consisted of mere matters of course, it would be difficult to obtain the attendance of two-thirds of the Councillors. On the other hand, it was not at all probable that any abuse would arise under the Clause as it stood, because there could be little doubt, that when any business of importance was to be transacted, there would be a full attendance of members.
 Lord John Russell  would trespass on the attention of the Committee for only a single moment. It had given him great pain, as his noble Friend well knew, that the difference of opinion had taken place between them which occurred last year. He also regretted the course which his noble Friend had pursued this year, as well as the other differences of opinion on matters of policy which had occurred between them; and which had occurred to such an extent, that whenever a division took place in that House on any contested point, his noble Friend and himself were generally found on different sides. With respect, however, to the seat which his noble Friend might think fit to occupy, that was certainly a matter entirely for his own decision: and he (Lord John Russell) would not take the liberty of making a single remark upon that subject. But as to the cheers to which his noble Friend had alluded, as having taken place at the close of some of the divisions, he must say, that he thought they proceeded rather from a disposition to excite a laugh, than from any more serious motive; and that his noble Friend attached too much importance to the circumstance. With regard, too, to the comments of the public Press, he thought his noble Friend would better pursue the course of duty to himself by disregarding what was said without the walls of that House, rather than by permitting himself to be influenced by comments which they all knew appeared day after day, and which were frequently couched in terms of great violence and bitterness. His noble Friend had stated that his opinions were not changed by his change of place. He had no doubt of it; but he could assure his noble Friend, with regard to the whole course of his public conduct, both when he (Lord John Russell) had the good fortune to agree with his noble Friend, and when he had the misfortune to differ from him, that he was thoroughly persuaded that if there was any man on whom no imputation of unworthy motives could possibly be cast, and who acted universally on his own convictions of right, that man was his noble Friend. No part in politics which his noble Friend might take would ever induce him to believe that he acted from any other motive than his own sense of honour.
 Major Beauclerk  thought the public funds should pay the expenses.
 Colonel Perceval  agreed with the hon. Member for Tipperary, in one thing, that the hon. Member had better postpone his Bill till next Session.
 Major Cumming Bruce  was clearly of opinion that there ought, at any rate, a concurrent jurisdiction to be given to the county Magistrates and to whom an appeal might lie.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that in putting this power into the hands of the Council, the House would be investing a body of persons with that power who would be disposed to encourage the existence of Tom and Jerry shops; and in taking it from the Magistrates, they would be unnecessarily and unjustly impeaching the respectability of those gentlemen.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that while he was of opinion, that frequent changes were highly undesirable, he thought the nature of the Town Clerk's office rendered an agreement in political opinion between him and the Town Council absolutely necessary. The Amendment of the noble Lord, however, went to render that office permanent, rendered his removal impracticable unless for fraud or felony, and thus enabled him to set the council at defiance. He was of opinion that the course adopted by the Bill was the best; for, while it rendered it easy to dismiss the Town Clerk, it rendered it impossible to dismiss him for any trivial cause, or anything short of the displeasure of the majority of the Town Council. With respect to what the right hon. Baronet had so facetiously observed, on the canvass going on at present for the office of Town Clerk, though there were no burgesses as yet appointed, and no Town Council—the electors in the case—in existence, he should only say, that the burgesses, though not as yet appointed, were pretty well ascertained, and also that it was tolerably easy to foresee in every borough who would be the Town Councillors. Therefore, the argument of the right hon. Gentleman derived from the ludicrous assumption which he put, was worth the laugh it caused, and no more. In point of fact, he knew of his own knowledge in one borough, that an active canvass for the situation of the Town Clerk was actually on foot at that moment. So much, therefore, for the right hon. Baronet's supposititious case. He hoped the Committee would adopt the clause as it stood, and give a power of removal to the Council. He particularly hoped so, as to
 197
 Mr. Tulk  said, that he knew a place where an active canvass was going on for the office of Town Clerk.
 Mr. C. Williams Wynn  said, that without entering upon the general question at all, the orders and rules of the House should be established, as there was great inconvenience in these deviations from the usual mode of proceeding. He need only say that any interference in any contract between man and man—to say that a tenant taking a lease of his landlord, that he should have a claim upon him for compensation, if, at the expiration of the lease, he did not thint fit to renew it—it might be unobjectionable or not—but to say that this House had the power of interfering with existing contracts was in his opinion highly objectionable. He had no doubt that the measure was introduced from the purest and most charitable motives, but it
 220
 Mr. Baines  said, that having been appealed to by the right hon. Baronet as to the practice at Leeds, he could state that at Leeds, the County Magistrates had no concurrent jurisdiction with the Magistrates of the borough. As a proof that the power of granting licences was used by the Magistrates for party purposes, he might mention that while a large proportion of the population of Sheffield was in favour of the liberal candidates at the late election, the publicans were as two to one against them.
 Mr. Cayley  rose before going into Committee on the Municipal Reform Bill, to call the attention of his noble Friend below him to the circumstance of existing corporations having, since the introduction of this Bill, entered upon the practice of letting out corporate lands and other property on long leases; of course on advantageous terms, and for which, one day or other, they would have an equivalent, at the expense of the interests of their trust. One instance of this kind he had heard of as having taken place in his own constituency, namely, the borough of Scarborough, where he understood they had never been in the habit of leasing out the corporate property. He had heard this on very good authority; and if it were true, it demanded the immediate interposition of the House, in order to render null and void any bargains of this nature. It appeared to him a gross contempt of the proceedings of this House, and he hoped his noble Friend would not fail to institute a remedy.
 Mr. Shaw  presented a Petition to which he begged to call the especial attention of the House. The petition he said was from the freeholders of the county of Meath, and was most numerously and respectably signed. The character and station of the petitioners were in themselves enough to entitle them to the serious attention of the House, but the facts which they detailed, and the system of outrage which they complained of, were still more worthy of solemn consideration. The petition complained of an evil that was unhappily too often experienced in Ireland—the intimidation, the coercion, and the improper interference of the Catholic Priests at elections—a system that, if tolerated by the Government of the country, whose duty it should be, as its interests palpably was, to arrest the progress of clandestine revolution which was creeping on under the mantle of the Priesthood—would subvert all freedom of election, without which Parliament itself was a nullity—would untwist all ties of social union, and scatter throughout the country the seeds of animosity, dissension, and sedition. If these turbulent Ecclesiastics were suffered thus to awaken prejudices which had long slept, and to infuse new and pernicious animosities into the susceptible minds of the peasantry, there could be no security or
 183 184
 Mr. Shaw  asked the noble Lord, the Chief Secretary for Ireland, if he was aware of the nature of the Bill: as it was quite out of the usual plan to bring in a Bill without receiving some explanation of the principles on which it was founded.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that having moved for these Returns he would readily, according to the hon. Baronet's hint—have paid the expenses himself rather than they should not be made, so important did he consider them.
 Mr. Warburton  could not gather from the hon. Member that he did interfere with existing contracts; or that his Bill differed from what already existed in this country, in the custom that the out-going tenant was to have his improvements, such as manure, crops, &c, estimated by fair valuation; and it was very probable that the hon. Member meant to do no more than provide that, by his measure, the same valuation should take place in Ireland. He, therefore, thought the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Wynn) had been rather hard upon his hon. Friend.
 Mr. Wilks  moved as an Amendment, after the words "signed by three or more Councillors," to insert the words "at the meeting of the Council at which the order was made."
 Mr. Hume  moved for "leave to bring in a Bill to repeal as much of the Act 25th Geo. 2., as restrains the Amusements of Music and Dancing."  [The hon. Gentleman in rising to make this Motion front the Ministerial, instead of the Opposition side of the House, where he has always heretofore sat, was very loudly and significantly cheered by the honourable Gentlemen on the Opposition benches.]
 Mr. Hume  said, that although that Question had been then for the first time before the House, it had on every occasion arisen before private Committees whenever it was required from Clerks of the Peace. The present was a most erroneous system. The county should, for the discharge of all duties, pay a fixed salary to the proper officer. He had lately seen a list of charges by a Clerk of the Peace to an amount so extravagant as not to be borne. In fact, every item was on the scale of a lawyer's charges for his professional services. The gentlemen of the several counties ought to put an end to that system, by allowing an annual salary sufficient to pay for the performance of every duty connected with the Clerkship of the Peace. He had, indeed, seen a list of salaries paid to Clerks of the Peace throughout England, and on the average they amply remunerated the Clerks for all the duties they performed in their counties, and were called on to do for the House. He supported his hon. Friend's Motion.
 Mr. Sheil  thought that perhaps at this late period of the Session his hon. friend would have done well to postpone it. But as he had brought it forward, he had been rather unjustly dealt with; for there was already in Ireland, provisions that a tenant for twenty one years should plant the lands, and that the value of the plantation should be given to him at the expiration of the lease. At the same time, he must say, he thought at this time it would have been better to reserve the Bill for a future occasion, seeing they were engaged on two such important questions, the Irish Tithes, and the Corporation, (he hoped Irish, too,) Reform Bill,—remembering also there was another question which must come under discussion next Session—viz. the Irish poor-laws—it was impossible, whatever opinions they might entertain on the subject, for the Government to postpone it further till next Session—they must then say decisively—they shall be or they shall not be.
 Mr. Estcourt  said, that the observations of the noble Lord had not convinced him of the inexpediency of adopting the Amendment. At present, when the Corporations were not under the influence of popular control, no difficulty was found in obtaining the attendance of members to transact business, and he was surprised that the noble Lord should anticipate that a difficulty would arise after the passing of the Bill.
 Mr. Estcourt  could not consent to give this power to a half sort of magisterial body of persons. He wanted to know what the objection was to the present system exercised by the Magistrates. Perhaps he should be told that the Magistrates made a jobbing and partial business of it. If the noble Lord could prove any such practices on the part of the Magistrates, he would be the last to raise or support an objection to the removal of the power from the Magistrates, but no such attempt had been made. He admitted it was a most invidious duty to perform, but take by far the greater proportion of the cases in which licenses had been granted, and he was perfectly confident it would be found and admitted on all hands that they had been fairly, reasonably, and properly granted. The noble Lord not only now proposed to take it out of the hands of the Magistrates, and to place it in the hands of six other persons, but he proposed to leave it in the hands of a Committee of two of those very impartial persons—a duty which the Magistrates were not to be supposed competent or impartial enough to discharge. It would appear that those persons on whom such an office was to be made to devolve must be persons of a very superior grade and degree of intellectual power to that of the Magistrates of the present day. He was not aware that any persons who could be elected as a Council could be of superior ability or respectability to the Magistrates. If the Magistrates were accused of partiality they could be removed from their office; and as the law now stood, there was much less reason to suppose there would be any greater connexion between the present powers that distributed the licences and the lower grades than there would be between that class of persons and the Council. He would submit to the noble Lord whether he was warranted in making this alteration without bringing forward some cause of delinquency on the part of the Magistrates. In the great majority of cases licences had been granted most impartially and with very great discretion. He was sure that in large
 215
 Mr. Thornely  thought one-third enough.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes : With the understanding that the noble Lord would in another stage of the Bill, introduce words into this Clause, to the effect that no busi-
 208
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  rose to propose an Amendment, namely, that two-third, parts, Instead of one-third part of the number of the whole Council shall constitute a quorum. He had, on more than one occasion, had to advert to the fact, that of the present Corporation of Oxford, consisting of ninety members, forty must be present whenever a vote of money was passed. Considerable jealousy was naturally felt, that eleven, being one-third of the proposed new Council, should be able to perform all the functions, which less than forty of the present Corporation could not execute. If, under the existing system no difficulty had been felt in obtaining the attendance of forty members, surely under the new system of popular and frequent elections, none would be experienced in requiring the attendance of twenty-two members; and as no property qualification was to be required from the new Councillors, and they would have all the Corporation Funds in their power, he thought that the security should be given which was implied in his Amendment. The hon. Member moved an Amendment to the effect stated.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes : Before that Clause was passed he begged again to draw the attention of the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, to a point which he had raised when Clause 3, which enacted the style of the new bodies corporate, was under consideration. He then stated that the present style of the Corporation of Oxford, was the Mayor, Bailiffs, and commonalty, and that the Bailiffs executed in that city the functions performed by Sheriffs in counties, in executing the process of the Court of Session, and taking custody of the prisoners; and he had inquired how the execution of those duties was provided for by this Bill. The noble Lord the Secretary-at-War answered that the Council, under the Clause then before the Committee, would have power to appoint officers for the discharge of those duties. He was of a different opinion at the time, and a letter he held in his hand confirmed that opinion. It was from the learned Recorder of Oxford, whose opinion was entitled to the greatest attention, not only from his great legal knowledge and experience, but from the circumstance of his having for considerably more than twenty years represented the city of Oxford in Parliament—he meant Mr. Lockhart, who must be known to a great many Members. The learned Gentleman stated that the office of Bailiff was attached to the Court of Quarter Sessions, and that it was impossible that that officer should be ap-
 206
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, that during the four Parliaments he had had a seat in that House he had never heard a single complaint brought against the Magistracy for the manner in which they had discharged this duty. It was to be remembered that in conjunction with them there was the Recorder, who had also to exercise
 216
 Mr. William S. O'Brien  thought that when the condition of the Irish peasantry was such as it was, the House would appear to disadvantage in the eyes of that people if an exception was made against this Bill in not allowing it when so many other Bills were admitted to their first reading. He should hold himself disengaged in regard to the principles of the Bill; and he should be prepared to give it his earnest attention, in hopes of its containing something capable of advancing the general improvement of the people of Ireland.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  had merely abstained from giving any view of his object from the late hour of the night, and his conviction that it would not be well understood till his provisions were before the House. It was not his intention to push the Bill this Session—his object was to get it printed, and circulated through the country. The Measure which he wished to introduce was one founded on the
 219 [The hon. Member then read two extracts from the evidence alluded to: the first was from J. F. Lewis, Esq. who stated that "the relations between landlord and tenant was one of the great sources of evil in Ireland—"in which he was confirmed by another extract from the evidence of Mr. Forster and an extract of a Letter to Sir R. Peel.]
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  moved for leave to bring in a Bill "to amend the Law of Landlord and Tenant in Ireland." He would not at that time, unless it were the pleasure of the House, make any observations, nor discuss the merits of the Bill: but would content himself with simply moving for leave to bring it in, that it might be printed.
 Mr. Mark Philips  said, that he thought placing this power in the hands of the Council would be much better than allowing it to remain with the Magistrates. The local knowledge of the Council of the temper and wants of the inhabitants would qualify them better for the distribution of the licences than the Magistrates could be.
 Sir James Graham  rose to move the Amendment on the Clause, of which he had given notice. He spoke to the following effect:—Mr. Bernal, Sir, as I understand, in the Clause now under discussion, the 52nd, it is proposed that the Councils shall have the power of granting licences to ale-houses, only in cases in which a separate jurisdiction shall be granted to the borough. This anomaly appears, to me, inexplicable. My objection certainly would not have been diminished if I could have understood the reason. As the Clause now stands, I not only object to the principle, but to the arrangement, which is such as I cannot understand. Where there is a separate jurisdiction given, following the analogy of all arrangements respecting ale-houses, one would have said, that the local jurisdiction should have exercised the power of licensing ale-houses: where there was no longer the jurisdiction, there, I could have understood it would have been expedient, if you were unwilling to grant this power to the County Magistrates, to give it to the Council. But however, by this Clause, where you have the opportunity, you have not intrusted these judicial functions, but delegate them to the Council exercising no other judicial functions but this one: where you have not the opportunity, (and where I could have understood the intrusting this power to the Council,)  there 209 l. 210 211 No, No! Potter: 212
 Sir James Graham , in reply to observations made by the noble Lord (Howick), quoted the words of the statute passed in the year 1552, in the reign of Edward 6th, by which all the ale-houses in the realm were placed under the jurisdiction of the Magistracy. He was more anxious to appeal to practical experience, according to which the power of licensing had never been abused, than to any of the fanciful theories resorted to by the Government for placing it in hands with which it had never yet been intrusted; and, judging from the character of the county Magistrates on the one hand, and the Town Councilmen on the other, he did think that the power of granting ale-house licences would be placed with much greater safety in the hands of the former than in those of the latter.
 The Attorney-General  said, there was this objection to the Amendment, that it would often happen an order would be made by the Council in substance, which could not be signed till it was drawn up in form. That form might require consideration, and it would be found exceedingly inconvenient for Councillors to wait till the minutes were put into form for them to sign, or might lead to the practice (as we understood the learned Gentleman) of a blank paper being given them to sign, which the Town Clerk would afterwards fill up. Orders being to be signed by three Councilmen, as well as by the Town Clerk, precluded the idea of danger.
 The Attorney-General  said, it was a mistake to suppose that the expenses of the Clerks of the Peace could be paid out of the county-rates.
 The Attorney-General : Nothing should induce me to hold office under men from, whom I differ in politics.
 Sir Robert Inglis  moved the Amendment of which he had given notice, to the effect "that Municipal Officers should take the oaths of allegiance before they could perform any of the duties of their office." He said, in rising to suggest an alteration in this Clause, that, except as to the other Clauses of which he had given notice, he should not take any other opportunity of calling the attention of the House to the Bill, till the more regular opportunity; viz. the bringing up of the Report. But
 187 188
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that no provision was made to meet the expenses of the Clerks of the Peace on those occasions. It was not understood that they should be paid out of the county-rates.
 Sir Robert Peel  did not consider the arguments of the noble Lord who had just addressed the House perfectly conclusive in favour of retaining the Clause as it stood. The noble Lord, for instance, in the first place, stated that one of the grounds on which the Town Clerk would, under the proposed Bill, be sure to be continued in office, was the difficulty of getting rid of him. Was there, then, to be such a want
 194
 Sir Robert Peel  resumed. He was only-speaking of an Attorney-General in the abstract, he was making no particular allusion to the hon. and learned Gentleman. Crambo had found it impossible to form an abstract idea of a Lord Mayor without imagining some particular individual clothed
 195 Attorney-General: 196
 Viscount Howick  admitted that great inconvenience must arise from constant changes being made with respect to the persons who should in future fill the office of Town Clerk. Every Gentleman in that House must know that it was with great inconvenience and difficulty that the management of his private affairs were taken out of the hands of an agent, to whose care they had been, for any considerable period, intrusted. That was an inconvenience which, no doubt, arose in an equal degree from frequent changes as to the persons who should fill the office of Town Clerk. It was certainly true that the Town Council might be a fluctuating body, and might have different objects to accomplish at different periods, but he took it for granted that the Town Council for the time being, however their views might vary on other matters, would be uniformly influenced by a desire to maintain their own rights to their full extent, and to carry as far as possible all their legal claims. It would, in fact, be their first object to promote by all means their own interests. Therefore the person most likely to ensure his continuance in office was the Town Clerk, who had for the longest period remained in office, and who had consequently acquired that experience which best enabled him to serve those by whom he was employed. But if his tenure of office was made not really and practically during good behaviour, as the Clause signified, but according to the Amendment of his noble Friend—legally and technically during good behaviour—so that the office should be held until proved misconduct was urged against its possessor—the effect would certainly be, that the Town Clerk would be made independent, but the Council would as certainly be rendered dependent on him. His noble
 193 bonâ fide
 Lord Howick  said, it appeared to him that his right hon. Friend, the Member for Cumberland did not properly perceive the view upon which his Majesty's Government had devolved the power of granting licences to the Town Councils. The difference between the views of his right hon. Friend and those of the Government was this, that while he contended that the power of licensing was a judicial function, he (Lord Howick) contended that it was a power which had no relation whatever with the judicial functions of the magistracy. The
 213
 Lord Morpeth  was of opinion that his hon. Friend had better say a few words in explanation of the measure he proposed to produce.
 Lord Morpeth  had no objection to its being brought in, though he did not hold himself committed to its principles; it might contain suggestions worthy of being adopted into the law of Ireland.
 Lord Sandon  said, it was very well known that there was no body of persons who exercised a greater influence at elections than publicans; therefore, the placing of this power in the hands of the Council would be clothing them with a very great political influence. It would be just the thing to lead to a corrupt system. The Magistrates were the best persons to have the power, of granting licences, but if it was to be removed from them, the Town Council were the very last persons to whom it ought to be transferred. The Town Council would have to grant the licences to the very individuals whom they would have to look to for their re-election to office; and they would both grant and take away licences for the very purpose of securing interest for their re-election. All persons might be supposed liable to abuse the power, but certainly the Magistrates were the least likely to lend themselves to malpractices.
 Lord Viscount Sandon  said, in Liverpool it was thought necessary to have a majority.
 Lord Sandon : If the hon. and learned Gentleman meant to make the charge generally, he would tell him that he had no right to consider those who sat at that side as being capable of jobbing.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  denied that the remark was applicable. The very speeches made this evening showed that the colonies were not unrepresented, and that the House as well as the Government felt the deepest anxiety for their welfare. The general mass of the people, including of course the ten pound householders, was interested in every question relating to our foreign possessions, and would return Members well calculated to legislate in their behalf. Looking to times past, before the Reform Bill was in operation, he saw that East-India Directors then represented populous places, and they might do so still; and it was one of the arguments used on the Reform Bill, that the Chairman of the Court of Directors was returned by a popular constituency.
 Mr. Pemberton  thought the Clause admitted of much improvement and wished it postponed. He would only say in the hope, that the Clause might be postponed, that the proposed transfer of charitable trusts would be a perversion of the intentions of the original donors.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  suggested whether the final consideration of the Clause should not be postponed until a period when they might come better prepared for the discussion upon it. The intention of the Bill was, that the liability of the present Corporations with respect to charitable trusts, should be continued in the new Corporations, and it was therefore fitting that they should have a choice in the trustees.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  moved the following Amendment:—"Provided also, and be it further enacted, that nothing in
 242
 Mr. O'Counell  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman, when he talked of disappointing the will of the original donors, forgot how many souls were at this moment suffering in purgatory for want of the masses they gave their property to obtain. As the hon. and learned Gentleman had been pathetic upon the disappointment of the original donors, lie would in his turn be pathetic, and appeal to him on behalf of the suffering souls who had not had the masses celebrated for them, which much of this property was given for. At all events he could assure the hon. and learned Gentleman that his fears were vain; for by the Irish Penal-laws, passed by a gross breach of the faith of Treaties, the Roman Catholics of Ireland were deprived of all power, directly or indirectly, to present, either individually or as Corporators, to any living, and these statutes had never been repealed.
 Mr. O'Connell : Nor in England; and the Duke of Norfolk could not now present to any advowson, any more than before the passing of the Emancipation Act. The 15th section of that Act kept the penal statutes in full force, and there was nothing
 247 à fortiori,
 Mr. O'Connell  would protest against the introduction into this Bill of any test to make a distinction between Dissenters and the members of the Established Church. He would repeat, however, that he should have no objection to impose a penalty on Roman Catholics acting improperly in regard to Church livings.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the existing state of the law had been lost sight of. Corporations were already open to Dissenters, and in many there was a preponderance of Dissenting members. Besides, there was no statute against a Dissenter possessing and disposing of the advowson of a living. Suppose that he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) became a Dissenter, still that circumstance would not divest him of any control he might have in the usual way over Church property. If the principle of excluding Dissenters from controlling the advowsons invested in Corporations was good for anything, it was also so far good as to exclude Dissenters from exercising any power over their private property in advowsous. The late Mr. Wm. Smith was a Dissenter, yet who disputed his right to dispose of advowsons? Now, hon. Gentlemen, ought to go the whole length of the principle, or not argue upon it at all. He confessed he would rather see all Church patronage in the hands of members of the Established Church; but that was not the question under consideration.
 Mr. Sergeant Goulburn  approved of the Amendment on the ground that the conduct of a judge ought to be above suspicion. It was almost impossible that if a Recorder was in the habit of practising as a Barrister circumstances would not occur which would be prejudicial to his character as a judge.
 Mr. Law  said that his point was, that under this Bill there would be no means of ascertaining what Councillors were Dissenters. He wanted those means, in order that Dissenters might be prevented, should they be so disposed, from improperly intermeddling with Church property. As to the term of "the original donors," he applied the term in a larger sense. He used it in reference to the numberless trusts confided to Corporations to be affected by the Bill.
 Mr. Law : That is in Ireland.
 Mr. Law  said, that the effect of the present Bill would be to nullify the 15th section of the Emancipation Act, prohibiting Catholics from at all interposing with any appointments connected with the Established Church. He did not mean to say that he considered the danger to the Church greater from the Roman Catholics dispensing its patronage then other Dissenters: but he disapproved of any Dissenters having any influence over the patronage of the Church. It was true that Dissenters had been admitted to Corporations, and had thereby been concerned in the distribution of Church patronage; but it should be recollected that they were now taking property from the hands of the trustees, in whom it had been vested by the original donors, and were about to place it in other hands contrary to their intention. He was not desirous of establishing any test to ascertain the religious creed of Councillors, but some provision should be made to prevent Dissenters from interfering with the appointments of the Established Church, allowing them to do which would be as unjust as it would be to enable Churchmen to interfere in the appointments of Dissenters.
 Mr. Cresset Pelham  had understood from the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, that the probability was that this Clause would be postponed with a view to referring the whole subject of charitable trusts to the inquiries of a Commission. He was very desirous that the question should be investigated by an
 243
 Mr. Scarlett,  while he admitted, that in small towns it might be difficult to find persons, not members of the Council, who were competent to be trustees, thought that in large towns it would be highly expedient that the trustees should not be exclusively members of the Council. It was not his opinion that existing abuses would be much lessened by this Bill, which transferred power from an independent to a popular body, that had every motive to distribute their patronage for political purposes. It must be recollected, that although the burgesses themselves might not he in a condition to benefit from the mal-administration of these trusts, every burgess had many relations, some of whom might be in such a condition. If the Town Council, a popular body, had the whole administration of these charities, it was certain, if any reliance could be placed on experience, that they would be appropriated entirely to political purposes. Such could not be the object of either side of the House; and it was, therefore, exceedingly desirable that time should be given for the consideration of the subject. Otherwise, they would not he acting on the professed principle of the Bill; which was that the funds in question should be administered in a fair and honourable manner. ex officio,
 Lord John Russell  deprecated further discussion of the Clause at the present moment, and more especially with reference to the Question of whether only a portion of the trustees should be composed of members of the Council.
 Lord John Russell  did not think that he had said anything to subject him to the imputation which the hon, Gentleman had cast upon his observations. What he said, had immediate reference to the subject before the House. The hon. Member wished to know if Ecclesiastical patronage was to be exercised by members of the Established Church; and what he (Lord John Russell) said in reply was, that the Act of Charles 2nd, which excluded Dissenters from Corporations, had been repealed by Parliament without any restriction, and that it certainly was not his
 246
 Lord John Russell  said, that he would refer the hon. Gentleman to the fact that the statute of Charles 2nd, which excluded Dissenters from Corporations, had been repealed.
 Lord John Russell  after what had fallen from the Right Honourable Gentleman, wished to state what he considered the present state of the law to be, and what would be the effect of this Bill. The Act repealing the Test and Corporation Acts replaced the ancient securities by a declaration to be taken by every person assuming an office either under the Crown or in a Corporation. But that declaration was not to be a test applied to the conscience; and he was of opinion that after this Bill should be passed, the same declaration would be required from persons taking office as was now required by the law.
 Lord John Russell  said, that under the operation of the Bill the Church patronage would go with all the other powers and possessions of Corporations, and the new Corporations would have the same power of dealing with it that the present Corporations had. The hon. Gentleman was well aware that since the Repeal of the Test and Corporation Acts, a Corporation at the present moment might be composed entirely of Dissenters, and be as competent to dispose of Church patronage as a Corporation consisting entirely of members of the National Establishment.
 Lord John Russell  said, he had already stated, in his opening address, that the effect of the Clause would be merely to place the trustees appointed by the Council in the place of the present Corporations. They would have no greater powers than those now vested in the old Corporations; even supposing the case, therefore, that the Council should all elect themselves, they would stand exactly in the same situation with the Corporations which now exercised the power of the trustees. It was another question, into which he did not wish at present to enter, whether they should disqualify members of the Council from serving as trustees,—the number being so large as fifteen, he thought that principle might be attended with inconvenience, particularly in small boroughs. But what he had stated to the Committee at the commencement was, that in his opinion, whether under the present Corporations or under those about to be created by this Bill, there was no sufficient control over the funds of charities; and that, even laying aside the whole of the question of intentional perversions of the charitable funds, it did often happen that the trustees who had the management of them, either through carelessness or some other cause, took so mistaken a view of their duty, that the original purposes of the charity were not accomplished, and those for whose benefit such foundations were instituted received no advantage whatever. He had, therefore, stated it as his opinion, and that of his Colleagues, that some controlling and superintending power should exist, by which they might be enabled to check and regulate the application of those funds in case the local bodies who had the management of them misdirected or perverted them. The question in what manner that object could best be attained had recently been brought under the attention of Parliament in that House by the hon. Member for Southwark, and in another place by a noble and learned Friend of his (Lord Brougham), chiefly in connexion with the subject of education. That noble and learned Lord had since informed him that it was his intention shortly to introduce a
 236
 Lord John Russell  quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that those persons who were best qualified to be trustees of charities would not perhaps wish to become burgesses. He would, therefore, consent to strike out that part which required the trustee of any charity to be a burgess. With respect to the appointment of a Commission to which the right hon. Gentleman alluded, if he thought that appointment could lead to any practical result, he should not hesitate to accede to the Motion; but he did not at present see that it would be attended with any such effect. If the right hon. Baronet wished to have the Clause postponed till Monday, with a view to make any favourable alteration in it, he would not object to its being postponed.
 Lord John Russell  appealed to the Committee, whether it was proper to protract this discussion, inasmuch as no amendment had been proposed. Me had already
 250
 Lord John Russell  said, that the Clause had no reference whatever to Ecclesiastical trusts as connected with Corporations. But that was, no doubt, a most important subject, and there was a notice on the books which would bring it regularly under the attention of the Committee in a future stage of the Bill.
 Lord John Russell  said, that it was a provision for placing certain trustees, to be appointed by the Town Councils, in the situation of the present Corporations, and not for giving to them any greater power than those Corporations now stood possessed of. Whether under the present Corporations, or the Corporations to be created by this Bill, there was a sufficient control over the funds of these charities or not—laying aside the whole question of an intentional perversion of the charities to private or party purposes—it was a fact that the trustees appointed by those who had the management of the funds did often, either from carelessness or some other cause, entertain such a mistaken sense of their duty that the funds were not applied to the purposes for which they were originally given, or to purposes to which they might be devoted with very beneficial effect. It was, therefore, the opinion of himself and his Colleagues, that some controlling and superintending power should exist for the purpose of causing the funds to be rightly and directly applied. It was not, however, expedient that any provision to that effect should be
 233
 Mr. Harvey  said he had an amendment to move upon that Clause. He thought Recorders, who were, in fact, Judges, ought not to be placed in the dependent situation of seeking favour from attornies; and, therefore, he moved as an Amendment to the Clause, "that no person shall hold the office of Recorder of a city, town, or borough, who practises at the assizes or sessions of the county in which such town or borough is situated."
 Mr. Harvey  withdrew the Amendment.
 Mr. Harvey  hoped that hon. Members would lay aside all party feeling and prejudice and come to the discussion of this most important question without any tinge of political or factious animosity. They were all agreed on the principle, and could only be anxious as to the best method of carrying it into efficient practical operation. He begged leave to put a case: in some small boroughs where there might be only fifteen Councillors, unless there was some Clause to provide that the electors should not be the elected, there would be an appointment without an election. The trustees and the Council would be one and the same body. He did think, whether the trustees were rich or poor, peers or paupers, without some controlling and unconnected power over the whole, they would only have a perpetuation of the abuses which were connected with the
 235
 Mr. Harvey  observed that it might be desirable to postpone the consideration of the Clause, but that it was obvious that the Clause itself could not be altogether dispensed with. The old Corporations were about to be extinguished; and it was necessary to take care that the goods and chattels of the deceased should be properly disposed of. If the property in question were left unprotected, it would be like a wreck on the shore, and thousands would be scrambling to come in for a share of it. It was important, therefore, that the property should be administered by trustees; and the Clause had that object in view. The right hon. Member for Tamworth had misunderstood him in one point. He had never stated or contemplated that all the charitable funds in the country should be in the hands or under the control of a permanent board. All that he suggested was, that there should he a permanent board of supervision, to which the trustees of the different charities might, from time to time, be amenable. But it never, for a moment, occurred to him that the actual administration of all these charitable trusts— thousands in number, and local in their character—ought to be transferred from trustees on the spot, to a board in London. With respect to the Councils, in his opinion, neither should the members of them be altogether excluded from the trusts in question, nor, should those trusts
 244
 Mr. Grote  admitted the justness of the principle on which the Amendment of the hon. Member for Southwark was founded, but recommended him not to press it to a division, because, if carried, it would deprive the smaller boroughs of the advantage of having Recorders at all, on account of the expense which their appointments would then necessarily lead to.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  rose to call the hon. Member to order, as the House had agreed not to discuss petitions.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  referred to the consequences of the Reform Bill upon the colonies, which it might be almost said to have disfranchised, inasmuch as the only Member now sitting as the representative of a colony was the hon. Member for Bath.
 Mr. Twiss  suggested, that each Dissenting member of a corporation should make the declaration prescribed by the Test and Corporation Acts; and that a Clause should be introduced to that effect. Another point he would suggest was, that corporations of towns ought not to be invested with Church patronage under any circumstances, and still less so when, as would be the case under this Bill, the members of the Corporations would be elected by large bodies of the lower classes, subject to many passions and prejudices from the influence of which a more select and better educated class of electors would be exempt. A tyranny of this kind would be much worse than that of which the hon. Member (Mr. Wilks) had spoken. He presumed that if a separate measure had been introduced to deprive Corporations of Church patronage, it would have received the support of hon. Gentlemen opposite, but he did not see why they should not support a similar principle in a Clause in this Bill. There were in Liverpool eighteen churches to which the Corporation of that town had the presentation. Would it be fit that Protestant clergymen should be going about to solicit the patronage of the ninety Town Councillors who were appointed by a body ten times as numerous?
 Mr. Bagshaw  had heard the intimation of Ministers with satisfaction, and hoped that the state of the Cape of Good Hope and Malta would be taken into early consideration.
 Mr. Hardy  wished to know whether, under the term "Charitable Funds" was comprehended the patronage of livings? If so, the disposition of livings in the Church of England might fall into the hands of those who were not connected with the Establishment. There was in the hands of the Corporation of Leeds certain patronage of that kind, and he wished to know how it would be affected?
 Mr. Wilks  said, that there was no Member of Parliament who might not be said to represent the colonies of the country; and in his opinion the colonies were better represented now than under the unreformed Parliament.
 Mr. Wilks  was delighted to hear the observations made by the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department. He begged to assure the noble Lord, the Member for Liverpool (Lord Sandon), that
 249 O'Connell:
 Mr. Hume  said, the way to meet the objection stated by the noble Lord, was to enact, that no borough should have a Recorder which would not provide the funds to maintain him adequately.
 Mr. Hume  adverted to the manner in which, in Scotland, trustees for the administration of similar trusts were appointed. Of a body of twenty-one-trustees, the Council elected ten, and the burgesses eleven. This formed a very efficient board of control; and perhaps the same principle might be applicable in this country. He wished to throw out another suggestion. It was frequently the case that the burgesses were not sufficiently acquainted with the purpose for which charities had been instituted. The whole of the accounts ought to he open to general inspection, in order that it might be ascertained whether or not the legitimate object of the charity was carried into effect.
 Mr Hume  hoped, that the Clause would not be postponed. He was sure that a clerk would never be able to watch over the proceedings and control the management of the charitable trusts of the country. Although the proposition of a noble and learned Lord did not entirely meet the views which he had taken of the system of charities as regarded education throughout the country, yet he agreed with the substance of them. He was convinced that a general and superintending control over every charity in the kingdom, such as that contemplated, would be successful in guarding against abuse. Therefore, he hoped that instead of multiplying the number of persons engaged in the Departments of the Government, they would, where it was found necessary, appoint such a body as might be expected to watch with due care over the expenditure of thousands and millions of property invested in charitable trusts.
 Mr. Hume  replied, that the objection was to lengthened speeches of three quarters of an hour, for instance upon Municipal Reform, when the Question would come in so many other shapes before the House. Here was a petition on a subject which could not otherwise be discussed, and which, if debated now, would save the trouble of a regular and separate Motion. He was not desirous of detaining the House, but was anxious to remark upon a point not adverted to by his hon. Friend who presented the petition, that this colony, unlike most others, although so heavily taxed, had not any
 231
 Mr. Hume  could not but feel gratified at what the hon. Baronet said, but it would afford the subjects of the colony only very little consolation to hear it stated, that in two or three years hence the Act of Parliament by which they were governed would expire, and that then an attempt would be made to do something for them. The House ought to know that that colony was taxed to an enormous amount, more in proportion than Great Britain, and the subjects had no control whatever over the appropriation to the amount of 1 s. 230 l. l. l.
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  had great pleasure in supporting the prayer of this petition, and was perfectly satisfied that the desire for a Legislative Assembly was so great, that till it was granted the colonists would not be satisfied, and most probably that desire would increase into positive discontent.
 Mr. O'Connell  would only detain the House a few moments. He was almost sorry that the right hon. Baronet (Sir George Grey) had been able to give so distinct a pledge upon the subject, because at all events it prevented the adoption of any immediate measures, and to a certain extent deprived the colony of the sympathy of the House. As the existing Act would expire in December, 1836, a consideration of the state of New South Wales must necessarily take place in the next Session, and he hoped that a strong inclination would then be felt to give to the settlers all the advantages which as British subjects they were entitled to. Free institutions ought to be planted wherever they would flourish, and prerogative ought to over-ride the rights of freemen only where the peculiar situation of the colony required it. The petitioners asked for a representative assembly, not such a mockery of legislation as existed in some of the West-India Islands. There were more free colonists in New South Wales than in fourteen of the West-India Islands. In giving a Legislative Assembly to New South Wales, he hoped that the distinction between free settlers and emancipationists would not be continued: emancipationists were entitled to every encouragement. A man who went out a convict, served out his time, reformed his character and habits, and acquired property, ought to enjoy all the benefits of his improved moral and political condition. After a Legislative Assembly had been given to the colony, the next step would be to give them the power of electing an Executive Council, so that it might have the entire management of its own affairs, while it paid a willing obedience to the mother country.
 Mr. Estcourt  asked what would then become of Church patronage which was vested in Corporations, seeing that the Clause contained no provision in that respect?
 Mr. Sergeant Talfourd  said, that as he filled the office of Recorder, he could state from experience, that his conduct as a Judge was never in the slightest degree influenced by his practising as a Barrister. If the Committee should be of opinion that the adoption of the Amendment would promote the pure administration of justice, he would submit to its decision, although it would sever a tie which bound him to the Corporation of the town which he represented.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  complained that there was no Clause in the Bill which provided for such cases as he had adverted to. It was very true that it was now proposed to make those who were trustees of charities personally responsible for any breaches of trust with which they might be chargeable, but that was rendered all but nugatory by the fact that no qualification was required from the members of the Council. If the provision were adopted which he should propose, some of the trustees at all events belonging to a liberal profession would afford some guarantee for a due performance of their charitable functions. He had a list of no fewer than twenty-two charities of a very important character belonging to the city which he had the honour to represent, and which placed considerable political power in the hands of those by whom they were dispensed. Some of them were given specifically to be enjoyed by members of the Church of England, and as the Recorder and Magistracy were much more likely to belong to the Establishment than the members of the Council, he was anxious that the former should at least have a concurrent direction in the application of the charity estates. He did not ask that the Recorder and Magistrates should be the sole trustees, but merely that they should be associated with the fifteen chosen of the Council; and he did not see any possible objection that could be entertained to such a proposition. It would,
 234
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  repeated the same question, and said, that a considerable sum of money had been left to the Corporation of Oxford for the establishment of forty lecturers in that city, resident clergymen of Oxford. He did not know whether the Clause was intended to apply to that property?
 Sir Frederick Trench  said, he did not mean any discourtesy to the noble Lord, but he must say, that he looked upon the noble Lord in no other light than as an instrument in the hands of those about him. He did not mean to say that the noble Lord himself had any designs hostile to the Established Church; but, seeing that he was only an instrument in the hands of those who had, he thought it behaved the House to see that the interests of the Protestant Church were not injured by this Bill. He considered that the noble Lord and those around him were utterly unable and incapable to carry on the Government of the country. The noble Lord was, in fact, in the hands of the great giant, who wielded him, as his victim, just as he pleased. The object of his question to the noble Lord was to ascertain if the interests of the Protestant Church and its patronage were to be preserved in the hands of men belonging to that Church? To that question the noble Lord thought proper to reply with a sneer, but he could tell the noble Lord that he should always do his duty in that House honestly, conscientiously and fearlessly, whatever view the noble Lord might think fit to take of his conduct.
 Sir Frederick Trench  said, that he wished to know from the noble Lord oppo-
 245
 Sir Frederick Trench  said, that it was his intention to propose an amendment, in a much as he thought that this was calculated indirectly to do that which no person would attempt to do openly and directly. He believed that the effect of the Clause would be, whatever might be the intention of those who proposed it, to destroy the Established Church. If he had on a former occasion expressed himself warmly, he begged to assure the Committee he had done so sincerely; and his conscientious belief was, that the noble Lord opposite (Lord John Russell) and many of his Colleagues were nothing but puppets in the hands of the giant opposite. The amendment which he intended to move would be to the effect that the property of the Church should be at the disposal of those persons only of the Town Council who were members of the Established Church; but as he understood that it would come in more properly in the 79th Clause, he should defer it till that Clause was proposed.
 Sir George Grey  said, he was sure the hon. Gentleman could not expect that he was to give any pledge at present for the Government on a subject that required the most mature consideration. The present Act of Parliament by which this colony was governed, would expire in the Session of Parliament succeeding December 1836; so that the circumstances under which that colony was constituted would have to come under the notice of the Legislature in the course of the next Session of Parliament; and he would give this pledge—that before any new act was brought forward for the government of New South Wales, his Majesty's Government would not fail to give the subject its most serious consideration. He had no doubt his Majesty's Ministers would look at the subject with the most anxious desire to extend, as far as possible, to the colony the benefit of free institutions.
 Mr. Henry Bulwer  said, that he had an important Petition to present from this Colony, and he would not infringe on this occasion the very proper Rule laid down by the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair, were it not that by laying the case now before the House he should do away with the necessity for a Motion upon it. The petition was signed by 6,000 free inhabitants of New South Wales, and the petitioners claimed that a Legislative Assembly should be granted to the Colony. He would state shortly and simply the peculiar circumstances of the case, and then he would appeal to the justice and good sense of the Government to do
 228 l. 229
 The Attorney-General  said, the Clause applied exclusively to charities, and did not embrace church patronage.
 The Attorney-General  said, he had no objection to the principle of the Amendment; and would agree to it, if it were possible to provide such salaries for persons filling the office of Recorder, as would induce them to give up their practice; but the boroughs would not submit to the pecuniary burden necessary to effect that object.
 The Attorney-General : It was impossible that the Bill could be construed to affect in any way the species of property alluded to in the Amendment of the hon. Baronet (Sir M. Ridley). The different descriptions of property to which he had adverted, were under the control of certain bodies, or what might be termed separate Corporations. He hoped that the Clause would not be persisted in; for though it was impossible to deny that much greater difficulty existed in legislating on this subject, than if these charitable trusts had been of late invested, still he expected that under the proposed system, all the beneficent purposes for which they had been left would be fully answered.
 Sir Robert Peel  wished to be understood as not having spoken of charities for the purposes of Education, when he adverted to the appointment of a Commission.
 Sir Robert Peel  could not hold out any such hope to the noble Lord. He would however say one word more with respect to a Commission. He thought that much more good might be effected by the appointment of some person attached to one of the offices of state, who would give constant reports to
 241
 Sir Robert Peel  thought no one could for a moment contest the truth and importance of the observation made by the hon. Member for Southwark, that they should all, on such a question as the present, whatever might be their divergence of political opinion, endeavour to consider this question on its own merits without any party bias, and solely with the view of making the clause as satisfactory in its operation as possible. With that object in view, and there being no difference of principle between them, they had first to secure the application of those charities as nearly as possible to the original intentions of their foundation, and in the next place to prevent the abuse of them for any Parliamentary or electioneering purposes. The only question was by what mode those objects could be most efficiently carried into practical effect. He agreed with the hon. Member for Southwark, that wealth, property, and station in society were not necessary guarantees of the due performance of a charitable trust. The truth was, that persons were apt to undertake the duty of trustees without at all considering the obligations which that imposed on
 237 238 239 240 l.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  abstractedly agreed
 248
 Mr. Clay  could see no objection to making the members of the Council,  ex officio,
 Lord Sandon  thought that as the Clause now stood, it would be a practical invasion of the rights of the Church, inasmuch as the power of presentation would be given to members of Corporations without any restriction, or any mode of ascertaining their religious principles.
 Lord Stanley  said, that though he was not perhaps perfectly justisfied in declaring what course he meant to take with regard to the Irish Tithe Bill, which the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, had obtained leave to bring in, yet as he had taken an active part in all the discussions on the question to which the Bill referred, the House would, he hoped, excuse him if he stated a word or two how he meant to act with regard to this measure. The noble Lord opposite (Lord Morpeth) had prepared the Bill, at least so far as could be collected from his speech on introducing it, in such a way as that it involved two questions—two points of principle totally distinct from each other. One of these he (Lord Stanley") considered very desirable, the other so objectionable that no persuasion—no consideration whatever, could induce him to support a Bill embracing such a principle. He was placed, therefore, in this difficulty—that he could not oppose or support the Bill on its second reading without approving or condemning both the principles included in it. He would then offer the Bill no opposition on its second reading, with this distinct understanding, that he would take the earliest opportunity of objecting, when the one of the two principles to which he had alluded could be considered separately, to that by which the property of the Church was intended to be appropriated to other than Ecclesiastical purposes. With this reservation he would give the second reading of the Bill no opposition, but he hoped some time would be allowed after the Bill was printed for the consideration of the details, and for the purpose of seeing how far individual cases alluded to in the Report of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, would be affected by it.
 Mr. S. Lefevre  said, that an individual might appeal on the part of his parish.
 Mr. Bonham Carter  observed, that there would be quarter sessions in most of the corporate towns, at which the greater portion of the offences committed in them would be tried, and of course the expense of them would fall wholly on these towns. The number of cases sent to the assizes would be very small, and the expense so trifling that it would not be worth while
 269
 Mr. Charles Duller  expressed his surprise to find that the Clause established a bad system of Local Courts. Not only was a non-resident Recorder maintained in spite of the objections which now existed to that practice, prisoners being often confined in gaol for three months waiting for trial, but an incompetent Judge was provided. The Clause made no provision for the residence of the Recorder, and enacted that in his absence the Mayor should preside in the court. The Mayor by previous Clauses was to have the burgess roll under his care, to act as a justice of the peace, to be the Returning Officer at elections, to be at the head of the Watch Committee, to be Chairman of the Council, and now, by this Clause, he was to act as Judge of a Court of Record. The Clause revived the Courts of Record, together with their defective progress, and their election of jurors from a small circuit; besides which, the proceedings were to be absolutely final, and not to be carried by appeal to the courts above. Out of 150 boroughs there were only twenty-two in which these courts had not fallen into disuse, and in those boroughs the jurisdiction was, as appeared by the Report of the Commissioners, matter of just and bitter complaint. He was a friend to the establishment of a well-digested and effective system of local jurisdiction; but in this revival of ancient Courts of Record, with their faulty
 270
 Mr. Blackburne  said, that his hon. and learned Friend was quite mistaken as to the objects of this Clause. There was nothing in it that would establish any court that did not exist before. All that it would do was, that where there were Local Courts already established, it would place them under better control, and make them more efficient than they were at present.
 Mr. Blackburne  contended, that the Report of the Corporation Commissioners spoke in praise only of the Common Council of the City of London.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought that they ought, to take the number of burgesses, not the amount of the population, as the test whereby to judge of the propriety of dividing boroughs into wards. He thought that there should be no division into wards, unless in boroughs where there were more than 800 voters on the burgess roll. Less than that number would create a number of small unsavoury rotten boroughs, and more than that number would be sufficient to insure a proper degree of popular vigilance and control over the conduct of the Council. He hoped that a Clause to this effect would be introduced into the Bill.
 Colonel Connolly  was surprised that the hon. Member for Middlesex should oppose the Bill in the face of those who had had
 274
 Captain Gordon  also said, that he did not object to the second reading of the Bill, but that he hoped that ample time would be allowed for its consideration.
 Lord John Russell  admitted that the principle of this Clause would, to a certain extent, affect the schedules; and, therefore, he should not propose the schedules to the consideration of the Committee that evening.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the adoption of this last Clause with respect to wards rendered it necessary that some new arrangement should be made in the schedules; therefore, he proposed, that they should reserve the consideration of the whole of the schedules till to-morrow. He should now move that the Chairman report progress; and he hoped that to-morrow, at five o'clock, they would be able to go on with the schedules. When the debate on the schedules had closed, which he supposed would be after a day or two, he should move that the Bill be recommitted  pro formâ,
 Lord John Russell  proposed the insertion of a Clause in the place of the 30th Clause, which had been postponed, to the effect that in all cases where the population of a borough exceeded 12,000, his Majesty should be empowered to divide it into two wards, for the purpose of electing Town Councillors, and where the population exceeded 24,000, then into as many wards as his Majesty should think fit.
 Lord John Russell  defended the Clause, and contended that it was an object of desire that in all boroughs where the population was under 12,000, there should be only one election for the whole of the Officers of the Corporation. Experience, he submitted, had proved that in small boroughs the ward system was anything but desirable.
 Lord John Russell  said, that as he had read the Clause, the new corporate bodies would certainly be at liberty to apply the money derived from the corporate property from time to time as they thought fit. He perfectly agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman, that the rents and profits of the corporate property should be liable to the debts of the Corporation; but that the
 268
 Lord John Russell  could not quite accede to the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman. He thought it was a Clause that properly belonged to the present Bill; but after the discussion that had taken place, and considering that there were several points deserving consideration, he did not know whether it would not be better to divide the Clause into two Clauses on bringing up the Report, or on the recommittal of the Bill.
 Lord John Russell  said, his attention had already been directed to the point, and he should take care to remedy the discrepancy. He might take that opportunity of mentioning his intention (although not intimately connected with this Clause) in relation to the question of wards. He proposed to carry the principle of dividing the town into wards further than it was carried at present by the Bill. He proposed that the Privy Council should direct a town with 12,000 inhabitants, and not more than 18,000 to be divided into two wards; when there were 18,000, and not more than 24,000 inhabitants, the town should be divided into three, and not more than four wards; and where the population exceeded 24,000, the town should be divided into wards, providing that not less than six Councillors should be elected by each, so that two should go out annually at every election.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that he thought it right to bring the 79th Clause, which had on a former night been postponed, as soon as possible under the notice of the Committee. It was altered in a great many points, and a considerable number of the changes which had been made in it were made in accordance with the amendments proposed by several hon. Members. He thought it necessary to mention two of these alterations. By the first, the Town Council were made liable to the payment of the capital as well as the interest of the debts of the Corporation; and by the second they were not at liberty to lower the rate until this debt of the Corporation was satisfied.
 Lord John Russell  said, that he had provided for the case which the right hon. Baronet anticipated.
 Mr. Bannerman  in rising to move the second reading of the Aberdeen Universities' Bill, said, that it would be necessary for him to state a few of the circumstances which had led to the framing of this measure. It was a Bill of the utmost importance, which aimed at affording facilities for the advancement of learning in Scotland, by the consolidation of the two Universities of Aberdeen. At present both these Universities were individually inefficient to the purpose for which they were designed; each conferred degrees, without having the means of testing the fitness of the candidates, while there were two sets of professors, who, under the present system, were unable to perform, properly, the duties of one college. It might be supposed that he was introducing some new scheme; but the union of the Universities had been attempted in—1755, 1766, and 1786. In the former of the three years he had referred to, an attempt was made to unite the two Universities, which failed because individual interests were defended to the exclusion of views of general utility. In 1766 a similar attempt was made, which was ineffectual. In 1786, the under professors of both Colleges attempted to bring about a union. They met, and it was proposed, by a majority of the professors, that a petition should be presented, praying for a royal visit for that purpose; but the minority had interest sufficient to defeat the scheme. His way, however, had been made clear by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, who, in 1826, when Secretary of State, advised his Majesty to appoint a Commission to inquire into the subject,—an act on his part for which those interested in the prosperity of the Universities were most grateful. At the same time he must say, that when the Hon. Member for Middlesex endeavoured to urge the Government to do something towards the furtherance of the object he had in view, with reference to these same institutions, that effort, on his part, unfortunately proved unsuccessful. The act of the Right Honourable Baronet, however,
 277
 Colonel Perceval  said, Mr. Hume and his Friends took an entirely false view of the case. They did not understand the linen trade, and were incompetent to pronounce upon it. If the Bill passed, any one might go to the market and buy his commodity without the risk of being cheated.
 Mr. Callaghan  was astonished that Ministers should renew so objectionable a system for three years. It was a Bill of pains and penalties for the linen manufacturers of Ireland. No case whatever had been made out for the measure.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that if the suit to which the right hon. Baronet alluded were decided against the Corporation, they would cease to he possessors of property which they ought long since to have given up: the Bill would put them in no worse situation than they would have been in if such Bill had never existed. As to the costs, he apprehended that in 99 cases out of 100 the Corporation would not have to pay costs if the suits were decided against them.
 Mr. Grote  certainly could not believe that the sort of legislation which had been found so injurious to England and Scotland, could be beneficial to Ireland.
 Mr. Grote  was glad to find that the noble Lord did not mean to make any concession to the right hon. Baronet opposite, as he (Mr. Grote) considered the Clause which was now proposed would be a very great improvement of the Bill. It might, however, be well to establish some minimum in reference to the payment of rates and taxes to regulate the division of a borough into wards.
 Mr. Grote  had never lauded the Corporation of London further than to say, that he approved of the annual election of the Members of the Common Council.
 Mr. Warburton  was sorry that the noble Lord supported a Bill of this kind. Let him look at the marginal notes and see the yard-and-sevenths sort of legislation of which the Bill consisted, and he must surely be ashamed of supporting such minute and ridiculous legislation.
 Mr. Warburton  hoped that the evidence taken before the Commission would be reprinted.
 Mr. Emerson Tennent  said the proposition was merely to revive for three years longer a Bill passed three years ago, and which was about to expire. The Bill did not interfere between the manufacturer and the weaver. It was a protection to them and the buyer. If there were not some certificate of the width of the linen there might be fraud. The Bill merely referred to the article exposed to sale in open market. The experience of those engaged in the trade was of higher authority for the Bill than the fanciful theories of Gentlemen opposite against it.
 Dr. Bowring  did not rise to oppose the Motion, but to request that the hon. Gentleman would give time for its full consideration.
 Mr. Wilks  thought the Clause required correction in more than one particular. In its present state it would be impossible to carry it into practice; he, therefore, pressed on the noble Lord the importance of postponing it till they could better judge of the alterations which had been made in it.
 Mr. Wilks  thought it would be highly inconvenient, after the amendments proposed by the noble Lord (Russell) in the Clause now under consideration, to discuss it to-night, at least before those amendments were placed in a printed shape in the hands of hon. Members. Other propositions were to be made, and how could they proceed, when, for anything they knew, their amendments had been anticipated by the noble Lord? He hoped the noble Lord would consent to postpone it till a later hour in the evening—say ten o'clock, when they would be better prepared to deal with it.
 Mr. Brotherton  argued that some principle ought to be adopted to guide the division, and he thought no principle could be better than that of taxation connected with assessment to the Poor-rates. He should wish a power to be given to remodel the new Corporations at the end of fourteen or twenty-one years, if alteration should then be found requisite.
 Mr. Hume  moved, that the Bill be read a second time that day three months. This Bill was founded upon principles opposed to all those on which the manufactures of this country were founded. The more free the manufactures were left from such restrictions and regulations as those contained in this Bill, the better for the manufacturers and those whom they employed.
 Mr. Hume  thought it but justice to Ireland to place her upon the same footing as
 275
 Mr. Hume  expressed his deep regret that his Majesty's Government should leave all the principles of free trade unsupported on the present occasion.
 Mr. Hume  concurred in the wish for further time; for he was persuaded the more the proposition was examined the more distinctly would its importance and value be made apparent. It would be much better that Aberdeen should have one complete University, than that it should remain divided as at present.
 Mr. Lennard  begged to call the attention of Lord John Russell to a defect in Clause 10. By that clause it was professed to preserve the rights of all persons entitled to their freedom now in existence. But this was not done perfectly. One of the most valued rights of the daughters of the freemen of Maldon was that of conferring the freedom of the borough on their husbands. But this Clause confined this privilege to those only who were married previously to the 5th of June last. He contended that the rights of all the daughters now in existence of freemen should be preserved; and he gave notice that he should move an amendment to this effect, unless the noble Lord adopted his suggestion.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, that this Clause embraced so many distinct and important topics, that it was utterly hopeless to attempt to accomplish all the objects which it sought to obtain by one Clause. Indeed, there was in the Clause sufficient matter to constitute a Bill by itself, and he hoped the noble Lord would withdraw the Clause, and introduce a distinct measure in relation to the several subjects contained in it.
 Captain Pechell  rose pursuant to notice to present a Petition most numerously signed from certain owners and occupiers of land in the vicinity of Chichester, Arundel, and Worthing, expressing
 257 v. 258 259 260 Parrott, 261
 Captain Pechell,  in reply, said, after the satisfactory explanation of the noble Lord, he should wholly refrain from bringing before the House those facts which were discreditable to the clergyman, and which he kept in reserve unless provoked by hon. Members. He had received notice that other petitions were coming to him on the same subject, and it would depend on hon. Members whether he should remain quiet or not. The Hampshire clergymen certainly appeared to mark out the unfortunate naval officers for their prey and plunder, for he held in his hand a decree of Chancery in a suit just decided, "Richards  versus 262
 The Attorney-General  considered that it was better that those Local Courts should be preserved than be entirely extinguished; and, if so, power ought to be given to the Mayor or Recorder to try particular actions, as that would render those courts more extensive and efficient.
 Sir John Wrottesley  stated, that as the Clause stood, the counties would be reimbursed for the expenses of prosecuting at the assizes offences committed in corporate towns. He thought that the borough funds should also be liable for a payment of a portion of the salaries of the officers of the assize courts. He therefore proposed, as an Amendment, that after the word "witnesses," the words "together with a proportion of the salaries of the officers of the gaol, and the costs for repairing and enlarging it," should be inserted.
 Sir Robert Bateson,  as a representative of a large section of the linen manufacturers and weavers of the north, would say that they were all unanimous in favour of the Bill. Public meetings had been held in all parts of Ulster on the subject, and not one voice was raised against it, but, on the contrary, numerous petitions were presented in its favour. That surely was strong evidence of its utility. The trade was prospering under the Bill—it was almost the staple trade of the country—and he hoped that the good sense and justice of Parliament would not now destroy it, in deference to the quack doctrines of modern philosophers.
 Sir Robert Peel  was disposed to defer to the opinion of the majority of the House on the subject. It was inexpedient to force even right principles on those who were engaged in the manufacture in question. If it could be proved to him that the measure would permanently promote that manufacture, the benefit to morality which must then ensue would leave him without hesitation on the subject. But he confessed he had some doubts respecting it, and could not clearly see that that must be good for Ireland which was not considered good for other countries. In his opinion a committee ought to be appointed in the course of the next session to investigate the subject. In the mean while, as the time for which the Bill was to be renewed was only three years, he thought it would be better not to force upon the manufacturers principles Which they were not disposed to approve of.
 Sir Robert Peel  declared himself friendly to the principle of the Bill, but joined the two Hon. Members who had preceded him in hoping that time would be afforded for its consideration. He trusted that the hon. Member would endeavour to obtain his object with the good will of all the parties concerned. It is a saying in Scotland, that "Aberdeen, like England, had her two Universities." He should be glad to remove this distinction; but he was decidedly of opinion that instead of risking an angry discussion in the present Session, the hon. Member for Aberdeen had better postpone the measure.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that he wished to justify the reference which he had made to the Report of the Corporation Commissioners, and to show that he was quite warranted when he said that they approved of the practice of the City of London. The right hon. Baronet read a passage from the Report, which bore out the assertion, that the Corporation of the City of London was spoken of generally by the Commissioners with the utmost praise.
 Sir Robert Peel  thought that establishing a minimum of rate payers would be a very good principle to go upon, and such a test, he must say, would be obviously much better than if they were to be guided solely by the total number of men, women, and children. He was surprised, he must confess, to hear the hon. Gentleman, the Member for the City of London, condemning a
 272
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that as there might be as many burgesses in a borough with a population of 10,000 as in one where the number of inhabitants amounted to 12,000, this restriction of the exercise of the power intended to be invested in the Crown was unwise as it was, in his apprehension, unnecessary. It might also so happen that in boroughs where the population exceeded 18,000, more than two wards would be necessary, and therefore it was that if they were to place such a power in the hands of the Crown, it should be so placed as to enable the Crown to exercise a proper discretion. Many boroughs, with a less population than 10,000, now actually conducted
 271
 Sir Robert Peel  begged to call the attention of the noble Lord to another point. The rate to be levied was to be in the nature of a county-rate, and that was the form used in previous Acts of Parliament. The clause provided, that the council should not be empowered to receive an appeal against that rate, but it assumed that there might be an appeal against the rate made by an individual, the words being—"and if any person shall think himself aggrieved by any such rate, it shall be lawful, &c." Now, there was no appeal on the part of an individual against the county-rate; that appeal must be made by parishes. The law required that the rate should be of the nature of a county-rate, and yet it anticipated an appeal against it, while there could be no such appeal, for though there might be an appeal by a parish, there could be none by an individual.
 Sir Robert Peel  maintained that the rate being in the nature of a county-rate, an individual could not say that he was himself improperly rated. The law required that the appeal should be by a parish.
 Sir Robert Peel  had no doubt, if it remained in its present vague and indefinite shape, much inconvenience would arise, and great expense would be incurred in useless litigation. In his opinion it would, be highly expedient to separate the payment on account of poor-rate from that payable for borough-rate. Thus, should the whole payment be 2 s. d., s. d. s. s. d s. d. s.
 Sir Robert Peel  called the attention of the House to the necessity which there existed to make provision for the payment of the debts of a Corporation. He knew the case of a Corporation which for upwards of 200 years had remained in possession of a certain quantity of freehold property, that freehold was now claimed on behalf of the poor of the parish, and proceedings in Chancery had been instituted for the recovery of it. The only result of those proceedings up to the present time was, that costs had been incurred to the amount of 1,000 l.; l. l. 267
 Sir Robert Peel  said, it was difficult to amend the Bill even when the amendments were assented to. There was what appeared to be a discrepancy between the Bill and one of the schedules in an important particular, to which he begged leave to call the attention of the noble Lord. In page ten, line ten, the Clause assumed that the particular species of property for which an individual was entitled to vote should be described on the burgess roll: the words were these—"And no person shall be admitted to vote at any such election except at the booth allotted for the part wherein the house, warehouse, counting-house, or shop occupied by him, as described in the burgess roll, may be." It contemplated a distinct description of the nature of the property out of which the qualification arose, following the principle of the Reform Bill, as was indeed absolutely necessary in order to guard against those cases of fraudulent description which otherwise were likely to occur. If the noble Lord, however, looked at schedule D, he would find that there was no column for a description of the property, but only for the street in which it was situate. Arguing from the analogy of the Reform Bill, and on every principle of common sense, there should be a third column containing a specific description of the property out of which the franchise arose: at present the schedule was at variance with the enacting parts of the Bill.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that in case a surplus should remain after providing for municipal purposes, he hoped that the Town Council would not have the power of alienating what was considered corporate property. The Corporations had, in many instances, large estates, which in all probability would increase in value under a system of good government. Now, he apprehended that under the Bill, as it then stood, or at least as it was originally introduced, the Town Council would be invested with all the legal powers which the existing Corporations possessed; and according to the construction put on the law by the Court of King's Bench and other judicial tribunals, the Town Council might be enabled to alienate the property of the Corporation. The Corporation of the town of Derby imposed a rate at one time for the purpose of lighting and watching, under an Act called the County-rate Act. By this Act the Corporation of this town were empowered to levy a rate for certain municipal purposes. The Corporation of the town imposed that rate. It was objected to by some of the inhabitants on the ground that there were in the hands of the Corporation, sufficient funds to answer the object for which the rate was imposed. They alleged that they ought not to be called on to pay a rate in the shape of a county-rate until the funds of the Corporation were proved to be exhausted. In the Court of King's Bench, however, it was ruled (Lord Ellenborough being the Chief Justice) that they had no power to compel the Corporation to apply corporate property to municipal purposes and the validity of
 264
 Sir William Follett  begged to call the attention of the noble Lord (Russell) to what he deemed to be a very important defect in this Clause. Much had been said about the power claimed by the existing Corporations to alienate their property; but the effect of this Clause would be to empower the new Corporations to alienate the whole of the corporate property. The Clause stated that the Corporations should pay off all existing debts, before they applied any of the corporate property to Municipal purposes. This would compel the new Corporations, immediately on assuming their functions, to impose a rate on the burgesses, which would not fail to excite considerable discontent. He hoped the noble Lord would take this point into consideration. Again he would ask the noble Lord what he intended to do with respect not to the mere bond debtor, but to the mortgagees and other real securities held by persons from the Corporation? If any power were given to the new Corporations to dispose of the corporate property, it should only be with a view to enable them to pay off mortgages and other real incumbrances, and not an absolute power to sell the property without reference to those special obligations. He would suggest, however, that it should not be compulsory either on the Corporation to redeem, or on the creditors to call in their money on mortgage of corporate property; but that the Bill should leave it as a matter of private arrangement between the parties.
 Lord Morpeth  said that though the provisions of the Bill might not in strict theory be all perfectly justifiable, yet as it had received the general assent of both manufacturers and operatives in Ireland, he would give it his support.
 Lord Morpeth  said that Ministers rested their justification on their having been assured that if they refused to renew the Act for a limited period, they would inflict a serious injury on the present flourishing state of the manufacture in question.
 Lord Sandon  asked whether the principle on which this Clause was founded would not affect the number of Councillors given to the different boroughs in the schedule to this Bill. In some of these boroughs there would be too many, and in others too few Councillors, if the boroughs were to be divided into wards.
 Lord Sandon,  as one of the Members alluded to by the hon. Member for Brighton, having taken part in the debate on the presentation of a former petition, wished to correct any opinion that might have gone forth as to his wish or intention of casting any reflection on the statement made by that hon. Member as to the facts contained in the petition. He did not intend to express any doubt as to the authenticity of the petition; but he certainly had seen many petitions against the clergy which stated facts not afterwards borne out. He considered this not a party question, but one that required immediate attention; he hoped Ministers would speedily apply some remedy to prevent the recurrence of such vexatious proceedings as appeared in the petition.
 Sir George Strickland  believed that Coroners were allowed 9 d. d. d.  l. d.
 Mr. Curteis  objected to it on two grounds. In the first place, because it proposed to pay the Coroners out of the County-rates, and in the next place, because he considered that the sum proposed to be paid for mileage was too large. It was for these reasons that the former Bill was thrown out by the House of Lords.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  thought, that the hon. Member was acting upon a wrong principle in bringing forward such a Clause as this, tending to take away the rights of the lower classes. The expenses of Coroners were very enormous; and yet, if the question were put to any Coroner throughout England, he would say he was ill paid. Still, however, men were to be found who, for the sake of distinction, or influence, or progress in their respective professions, were ready enough to become candidates; and in the choice of men to fill such office, why should any be excluded from voting, merely because he possessed a smaller amount of property than another man?
 Sir George Strickland  said, that he was inclined to extend the franchise as widely as possible. He thought that the Amendment of the hon. Member for Bridport was very valuable. Who were the persons most interested in the election of Coroners? The poorest men in the county.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  considered that the Coroner's Court ought to be a close Court, as it bore the most strict analogy to the Grand Jury. He was decidedly of opinion that if the Coroner's Court were allowed to be open the ends of justice would be defeated.
 Sir George Strickland  said, as an Englishman, he was of opinion that all Courts of Justice should be open; but he was of opinion that, under peculiar circumstances, the ends of justice might be defeated, if the Coroner had not the power of closing his Court when those circumstances arose. He was satisfied with the Clause as it stood.
 Mr. Palmer  did not see that any advantage would arise from inserting the word jurors, because the Coroner, who was usually a professional man, was to be supposed the best judge of whether the Court ought to be open or not.
 Mr. Blackburne  observed, that if Mr. Hogg had chosen to send in his Reports with respect to the places which he had been appointed to visit, they would have been published in the Report of the Commissioners. There was no disposition to suppress anything. If he had done that he, would have done what the other Commissioners had done, and what it was his duty as a Commissioner to do. Mr. Hogg had sent nothing whatever but Reports respecting two places, which Reports were published in the Report of the Commissioners. He (Mr. Blackburne) felt himself personally to blame for the appointment of Mr. Hogg as a Commissioner. He had especially recommended him to the noble Lord to whom the formation of the Commission devolved. He was sorry to say that he no longer entertained the opinion of Mr. Hogg, which he entertained at that period; and he could assure the House that that change of opinion was not occasioned by Mr. Hogg's thinking differently from him on this subject. By the terms of the Commission, any three or more of the Commissioners were entitled to make a report to his Majesty
 297
 Mr. Blackburne  said, that Mr. Hogg's duty was to have sent in his reports, accompanied with the evidence on which they were founded. He had done so, however, only in two cases. If he chose to send them in they should all be published.
 Lord John Russell  answered, that he had received as he had told the House some days ago, a paper from Mr. Hogg, which that Gentleman had first called a report, and had then called a protest. Containing, as it did, only general observations, he did not conceive that it was his duty to receive it, and of course he could not lay it on the Table.
 Lord John Russell : The accounts I have lately received of this nature have been so numerous, that it will be quite necessary to introduce some Clause such as has been suggested by my hon. Friend.
 Lord John Russell  said, that as he understood a Petition had been presented to the House in his absence, complaining of the appointment of Lieutenant-Colonel Lyndsay to the command of the Fifeshire Militia, he should beg to say a word on the subject. He was ready, and fully prepared, to justify any recommendation to any appointment made by him at any time. But he thought that before he did so it was quite as well that those who forwarded the petition, as well as the hon. Members who presented and supported it, should be made aware of the law on the subject. The Militia law vested all appointments to the command of regiments in that service in the Lord-lieutenant of the county. The only provision which made that right of appointment not absolute was the necessity of a notification, on his part, to the Secretary of State for the Home Department, stating the fact and describing the individual appointed. If, within the space of fourteen days, the Secretary of State returned no answer, then the appointment was to be considered as final. In his (Lord John Russell's) view of the law the appointment was in the Lord-lieutenant solely—and it was merely for the Minister of the Crown to negative the introduction of any improper person into the command of the Militia. On the ground of unfitness alone, then, he could notify the disapprobation of the Crown. But he did not conceive that for motives purely personal, still less for motives connected with political opposition, the appointment of the Lord-lieutenant should be superseded. Yet these were the only grounds alleged against the appointment of Col. Lyndsay. Acting on that interpretation of the law, he had recommended to his Majesty to sanction the appointment made by the Earl of Rosslyn. He need scarcely assure the House that upon nothing less than very serious grounds was the disapprobation of the Crown to the appointment of the Lord-lieutenant ever signified, and it was never done upon political grounds. Of course there had been no notification made in the case adverse to the appointment of Colonel Lyndsay, and for the reasons he had stated, he felt entitled to deny that in the appointment of Militia Officers the same degree of responsibility attached to the Secretary of State as if he had directly counselled the appointment He felt it necessary to say these few words in the way of explanation, as there had been a good deal of misrepresentation on the subject.
 Lord John Russell  was quite ready to admit the remarkable and honourable testimony which had been borne to the Corporation of Tamworth by the Commissioners in their Report; and if it had been general in favour of the Corporations, there would have been no necessity for introducing the present Bill: but as the Measure was general in its nature, while there was no reason to apprehend any evil to result from its introduction in the particular instance alluded to, it would be inconsistent with its leading policy to make individual exceptions.
 Lord John Russell  said, I agree with the right hon. Baronet that some day should be fixed on which this Debate on the Irish Tithe Bill may be brought forward. I do not think, however, that my noble Friend, the Secretary for Ireland, can state tomorrow, or the day after, the precise day on which the discussion is to be taken. My noble Friend will move the second reading of the Irish Tithe Bill on Monday and in the course of the week I mean to propose that the Report on the Corporation Bill be brought up. On that occasion I should think there will be considerable dis-
 290
 Major Beauclerk  said, that he had voted for the Clause (in the Corporation Bill) for taking away the rights of freemen. He certainly had given that vote with much regret, but he was yet to learn that the vote was a wrong one. He voted upon the principle that a strong case had been made against the freemen; but he would not say that those who had come to an opposite opinion were not in the right. To the present Amendment he would give his warm support, and he hoped they would go back to the original principle of giving to every freeholder a right to vote.
 Mr. Charles Buller  wished to draw the attention of the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) to the circumstance that several Corporations had lately proceeded to dispose of their property with a view to defeat the operation of the Corporation Reform measure.
 Mr. C. Villiers  said, that seeing the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Hull (Mr. Hutt) in his place, he (Mr. Villiers) wished to ask him, as one of the Commissioners appointed by the Crown to carry the Act of Parliament for establishing a new colony in South Australia into execution, whether any, and what steps had been taken with regard to effecting the object of that Commission? He asked this question, at the instance of many persons interested in the formation of this new colony.
 Mr. Harvey  supposed, that there would be some qualification, to the unqualified opposition threatened by the opposite side to the principle of appropriation. He presumed that they did not design to oppose the grant of the million first voted as a loan to the Irish clergy and Irish tithe payers. He had listened for an intimation of any such intention on their part; but he could hear nothing of it in any of the observations which had been made. However, that was not the object of his rising. It was to put a question to the noble Lord respecting certain returns of the defaulters in the matter of tithes, which he had moved for some time since. He wished to know whether these returns had been made, according to the order of the House, or whether they were in progress? It was im-
 293
 Mr. Maclean  observed that the Coroner could not exclude strangers without alleging some reason for so doing to the Jury; and although the hon. Member for Shaftesbury contemplated two cases, that of an individual accused who might hear something that would lead to his escape from justice, yet he thought the statement of such a reason for closing the Court would be very unfair, and have the effect of prejudicing the Jury.
 Mr. Maclean  objected to the introduction of the words "and the Jury," as it
 283
 Mr. Maclean  asked the hon. Member for Shaftesbury how he meant to manage, in case there was a difference of opinion between the Coroner and the Jury? The Coroner might wish to close the Court, and the Jury might wish to have it open?
 Mr. Lechmere Charlton  observed that as the hon. Member for Huddersfield was now present, the noble Lord would, perhaps, allow him to trespass, upon the attention of the House for a few moments. It was well known that the Report of one of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the state of the Municipal Corporations had not been laid on the Table of the House. Mr. Hogg, the individual in question, finding that he differed from his brother Commissioners on the subject, sent a Report to the noble Secretary of State, which the noble Lord, however, declaring that it was personal and irrelevant, declined to receive. He had reason to think, that it was neither personal nor irrelevant. On the Report of the Commissioners, the so-named important Municipal Corporations Bill was founded; and yet it appeared that the opinions of two of the Commissioners were not in conformity with those of the other Commissioners. From their statements, it appeared that much of the evidence in favour of the existing Corporations
 296
 Mr. Charlton  said, that to remove all objections in point of order, he would conclude by asking if the noble Lord had received Mr. Hogg's protest on the subject of the Corporation Report and if he would lay it on the Table.
 Mr. Charlton  expressed his satisfaction with the explanation and promise of the hon. Member; and the subject dropped.
 Mr. Lechmere Charlton  repeated that he only wished to have the opinions of Mr. Hogg, as well as those of his fellow Commissioners, especially as they totally differed.
 Mr. Baines  said, he could see many reasons why a Peer should not vote for a Member of Parliament, but none to prevent him from voting for a Coroner.
 Mr. Cayley  had, on a previous occasion, called the noble Lord's attention to the subject just mentioned by the hon. Member for Liskeard, and he wished now to ask his noble Friend if any of the new Clauses would contain provisions with respect to this matter. In corroboration of the disposition of the old Corporations to alienate property, he had that morning received a letter from Yeovil, in Somersetshire, stating that the Corporation had lately advertised the whole of the landed property for sale;—property estimated at 25,000 l.;
 Mr. Shaw  said, that in the present position of the question he begged to say a few words to guard his conduct, and that of his friends with whom he acted, from misconstruction. He confessed that at first he had felt a great repugnance to allow even the first reading of the Bill without a division, such was his aversion to the principle which the bill contained, of appropriating Church property to secular purposes, and suppressing 860 parishes in Ireland. But under all the circumstances of the case, he was disposed to think the course proposed by his right hon. Friend (Sir Robert Peel) the best. Considering the difficulties which had been interwoven with the tithe question in Ireland by four years of non-assertion of the law—the dexterous mixture of two distinct questions
 291 l. l., l. 292
 Mr. Warburton  said, if they had now the right, why give it them by the Bill?
 Mr. Warburton  observed, that this Clause had been introduced in consequence of a Resolution adopted by the House two Sessions ago. There was nothing in this Clause which he objected to, until they came towards the close of it. Power was there given to the Crown "to order all persons to retire from the said Court, when, in the judgment of the said Coroner, the ends of public justice require the exclusion of such persons from the said Court." This power was subject to the approbation of the Lord Chief Justice of the King's Bench, or the Secretary for the Home Department; but this restriction did not appear to him to be sufficient. It appeared that very
 282
 Mr. Warburton  said, that he was glad to find that the hon. Member by whom the Bill had been introduced had himself seen the difficulty of the case. The object of the Committee should be to attend to the rights of the voters, and at the same time
 281
 Mr. Warburton  proposed to omit the provision which recognised the right of Peers to vote.
 Mr. Warburton  said, if the hon Member intended to propose any Amendment upon this Clause, he should do so at once. He was decidedly opposed to the limitation of the election to eight hours, because it would have the effect of making the struggle more violent between the parties, whose object would then be to try who could first get possession of the polling place, and bring up the greatest numbers on their own side
 280
 The Speaker  observed that the question before the House was to read the Order of the Day for going into a Committee on the Municipal Corporations Bill, for the purpose of postponing it. It was not usual on such occasions to raise a discussion on another question; and the effect of the introduction of extraneous matter must be the defeat of those hon. Gentlemen who had notices on the books of the House.
 Mr. Hardy  moved as an Amendment, that every election of Coroner shall be by a majority of persons "resident" in the district at the time of the election, who shall be freeholders resident within the district, and also of all such persons resident within the said district who shall be possessed of an estate of land or tenements that shall entitle them to vote for Knights of the Shire, under the Reform Bill. He saw no objection to this principle.
 Mr. Hardy  said, that there was much of plausibility in an open Court, but he thought that there was a great similarity between a Coroner's Jury and that of the Grand Inquest. They did not sit for the purpose of punishment, but of inquiry, and pending that inquiry no person was so fit a judge as the Coroner of whether the public should be excluded or not. All the mischief which they wished to avoid might be done if the Coroner were obliged publicly to state to the Jury his reasons for wishing to exclude the public, and therefore he was willing to leave the matter to the discretion of the Coroner. His acts would always take place in the presence of twelve witnesses, who would be afterwards enabled to give their opinions to the public (as there was nothing to prevent their doing so), in condemnation of the conduct of the Coroner, if they thought he had improperly excluded the public. He had known instances where criminals had escaped for the want of the inquiry being kept secret. He remembered, not long ago, a case of a most cruel murder, where the person who had actually committed it, was present at the time the inquiry before the Coroner took place, and finding the evidence likely to implicate him, took himself away and never was heard of afterwards. If on that occasion there had been a close Court, the probability was, that the criminal would have been brought to justice. He trusted, therefore, that the hon. Members would withdraw their Amendments.
 Mr. Poulter  did not mean that the discussion upon whether the Court should be open or not should be public; that would defeat the very ends he had in view.
 Mr. Poulter  suggested, that after the words "in the judgment of the Coroner," the words, "and the Jury," should be introduced, as it would be important to have their approbation in case of the public being excluded.
 Mr. Wilson Patten  thought that Juries who were casually summoned, and knew nothing about the case, would be very incompetent persons to decide upon the impropriety or fitness of excluding the public.
 Mr. Wilson Patten  regretted that some provisions were not introduced for dividing the counties, as in some cases there were
 279
 Mr. Cripps  observed, that he was quite aware that there were great objections to this Clause on the ground of its being the means of depriving a number of persons of their votes for the office of Coroner. In supporting this Clause, he did not wish it to be understood that he intended to oppose himself to the wishes of the House.
 Mr. Cripps  said, that he could not consent to the Amendment of the hon. Member for Bridport. The Committee must be aware that the House of Commons was in favour of an open Court, and the other House in favour of a close Court; and in consequence of this difficulty the learned Attorney-General had framed the Clause as it now stood, and which had afterwards received the sanction of the noble Lord, then Lord Chancellor. Both these learned Gentlemen had said, that there could be no objection to this Clause; and, as it had received their sanction, he would not presume to alter it.
 Mr. Cripps,  previously to the Question being put, wished to state to the Committee if they objected to the original Clause, he had drawn up another, which he thought would obviate the difficulty—that Clause was to the effect, that all persons duly qualified to vote should have been in actual possession of lands and tenements in respect of which they were qualified, or should have been in possession of the rents and profits for six months previous to the election.
 Mr. Cripps  wished to correct the hon. Member when he stated, that the Bill was thrown out by the House of Lords in consequence of the payment to the Coroners. Now this was not the case. The fact was, that the House of Lords passed this Clause, but the Bill was subsequently thrown out by their Lordships, as every body must recollect, in consequence of objections which their Lordships entertained to allowing the Coroners' Courts to be open to the public. As to the amount charged for mileage in this Bill, it would be recollected that the Committee had divided upon this part of the Clause last year, and decided by a considerable majority that the amount charged was very reasonable.
 Mr. Cripps  had some difficulty in knowing how to act in regard to the Clause. If the House thought that the Amendment would take away the difficulty, he would not oppose it. There was a difficulty in getting rid of those voters who had no right to vote at all. He agreed that, if possible, it was desirable to prevent all mob influence.
 Mr. Phillip Howard  thought the Coroners would be much less independent, if the voting took place in parishes. It would throw the election into the hands of large proprietors, and totally destroy all freedom of election.
 Mr. Potter  instanced the case of a man who was executed at the last Assizes for Lancaster under peculiar circumstances. In the absence of his family he administered poison to a child. An Inquest was held before a Coroner who always kept his Court closed, and the verdict was "Accidental Death." The neighbours heard of that, and applied to the Magistrates who instituted an inquiry, and the man was afterwards found guilty.
 Mr. Mackinnon  said, that as his name was connected with the Commission in question, he was desirous of saying one word. He felt extremely anxious to do his duty to the best of his power; but it would be upon a clear and distinct understanding that he would never receive any reward or compensation whatever for any duties that he might perform. It was unnecessary for him to say more than that; generally speaking, he concurred with the hon. Gentleman, the member for Hull, in what he had stated; and that he believed the object they had in view in that part of the world to which the Commission related, would ultimately be attained. How long it might be before South Australia should become such a colony as it was desirable to make it, he could not possibly say; but that it would eventually be successful, he did not hesitate to declare as his decided opinion.
 Colonel Verner  rose, pursuant to notice, to call the attention of the House to the case of Mr. Harpur and others, against whom informations had been sworn, for attending a meeting called by the Lieutenant of the county of Tyrone, at Dungannon, in December last, and for which they had been bound over to take their trial at the next assizes. In bringing forward this subject, the hon. Member contended, that the meeting in question was, if at all a violation of the
 299 "As Grand Master of Tyrone, I feel called upon, in consequence of the interpretation which Lord Melbourne gave to the debate upon Lord Mulgrave's processional entry into Dublin, to request, on the behalf of Mr. Harpur, one of your constituents, and others, members of the Orange institution, that you will, in your place in parliament, ascertain from the Home Secretary (Lord John Russell, I believe), or from the Attorney-General for Ireland, whether their interpretation of the act agrees with that of the Prime Minister. "This is of no slight importance to us, whose personal liberty, and property, to a certain extent, are involved in the reply. The late administration, though we were known to be amongst its most zealous supporters, felt it to be their duty to institute prosecutions against some of us for a breach of the procession act, in attending the call of the Lord-lieutenant of the county of Tyrone (of which county, as well as of Armagh, Mr. Harpur is a freeholder) to address the King in support of his prerogative. The meeting took place upon no anniversary, and was connected with no political event. This prosecution still hangs over them, and they are bound over to stand their trials at the next assizes. You will perceive how strong our case is. We were regularly convened by a lawful authority, while the Dublin assemblage originated with the processionists themselves, without any legal sanction, unless the letter of the Lord-lieutenant's State Steward (I think he styles himself), stating the hour at which his Excellency would join them, can be reckoned such. "I further beg leave to add, that I witnessed the procession, headed by Lord Mulgrave, into Dublin, which was called a procession of the Trades' Union, but which I assert was one of revolution, for, independent of standards with the harp without the crown, and 'Erin go bragh,' 'Repeal of the Union,' the cap of liberty upon a pole, with the word 'Liberty' placed on it, each member carried a long white rod, with the tri-colour floating from its end—viz. red, white, and green ribbons; and although the streets were lined with military, and the police apparently on the alert, some ruffian was permitted to place the tri-colours in the hand of the statue of King William, in College-green. "As friends and constituents, a slight apology for the trouble we impose upon you would, we know, be accepted; but we feel certain that you will readily undertake this matter for the sake of the public, to whom it
 300
 The Attorney-General  rose to order. There was no question before the House.
 Mr. Jervis  thought that all ancient practice showed that the Court of the Coroner ought to be open, reserving to the Coroner the power to dismiss from the place all those who acted against decorum.
 Mr. Jervis  said, that although he admired the principle of the Bill, he would sooner abandon it altogether than have the present Clause inserted in it. It would altogether abrogate the common law right of voting for Coroner, and substitute the Parliamentary right for it; but the hon. Member violated the common law right by substituting the Parliamentary one, and he violated the Parliamentary one by allowing Peers to vote. The Clause would most seriously alter the law, without the slightest necessity for the alteration; or without it having been shown that any difficulty had been found from the exercise of the law as it stood. He would vote against the Clause.
 Sir John Wrottesley  trusted the hon. Gentleman would persevere in the Clause, which, in his opinion, was one of the best in the Bill.
 Sir John Wrottesley  did not object to giving the freeholders the right to vote for Coroners; but if the country was to be at the expense and trouble of a registry, it was surely most desirable to make it available for the purposes of this Bill; it was also desirable that the poll should take place in one day.
 Sir Robert Peel  rose and said: I wish to take this public opportunity of stating the course which I intend to pursue with respect to this Bill. It comprehends some enactments in the general policy of which I concur; it comprehends others to which I feel the most decided objection in point of principle. I concur in the policy of making some new arrangement with respect to the collection of tithe in Ireland; I con-
 288 289
 Sir Robert Peel : I don't mean to say a word more, or adduce a single argument in favour of my views on this subject. All I desire is, that it should be understood that it is my distinct object to take the sense of the House on the principles involved in the two parts of the Bill to which I have already alluded.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he had been desired by the Corporation of Tamworth, the borough which he had the honour to represent, and holding as he did the situation of High-Steward in that Corporation, to present a Petition to the House, praying that the provisions of the Bill which the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) had brought in might not be extended to that Corporation. If it had been charged with any abuse, or if there had been a general desire expressed on behalf of the inhabitants to have a change made in the constitution of that Corporation, he should have felt some hesitation in presenting the petition, but the most honourable testimony having been borne by the Commissioners who conducted the examination into the affairs of that Corporation, with respect to the conduct of the Corporate body, he hoped that the noble Lord would not object to except the town of Tamworth from the provisions of the Bill. The Corporation of the town was not so considerable as to justify the application of the Bill to it; and there were other towns which also sent Representatives to Parliament, having Corporations, to which the Bill did not apply. He begged leave to call the attention of the House to a short extract from the Report of the Commissioners with respect to the Corporation of Tamworth, and then he would appeal with confidence to any man whether it was possible to have received
 286 287
 Sir Robert Peel  had had the honour of being one of his Majesty's Secretaries of State—Secretary for the Home Department—for many years; and he felt bound to state to the House that during that period he had put the same construction on the Militia Law, as respected the matter of the petition, as had been put on it by the noble Lord opposite. He never should have thought of setting aside the recommendation of Lords-lieutenants of counties to Military Commissions, however contrary those who recommended, or those who were recommended, were to him in political feeling and opinion. He was convinced the noble Lord acted rightly; and he was also convinced that he acted in entire accordance with the spirit of the law. He believed the spirit of the law to be the design of depriving the Crown of the power of negativing the appointments of Lords-lieutenants of counties on the ground of political disagreement alone. With respect to the appointment in question he could only say, that any one who knew the characters of Lord Rosslyn and Colonel Lyndsay would be fully satisfied that the former would not recommend an improper person to such a high situation, and that the latter was as honourable a Gentleman as existed; and, moreover, as well fitted as any one in the kingdom for the office.
 Sir S. Whalley  thought that it would give the public additional protection if the approbation of the Jury were necessary before turning it into a close Court. He thought the Amendment would be satisfactory to the House.
 Mr. Hutt  was happy to give the hon. Gentleman such information as it was in his power to do on this interesting subject. As soon as the Commission was issued by the Crown, the gentlemen named in it directed their earnest attention to the object, with a view to carry into effect the provisions of the Act under which they were appointed. However easy or simple that task might appear, the Commissioners had found it surrounded with considerable difficulties. They had, however, overcome those difficulties, and had printed and circulated widely, a paper, the result of their labours, in which were set forth the rules and regulations by which the new colony
 298
 Lord Morpeth  said, that he was as anxious as the hon. Member that everything which could be known on the subject should be before the House; and that he should, therefore, make special inquiry on the subject of the question put by him.
 Lord Morpeth  brought up and laid on the Table of the House a Bill for the Better Regulation of Ecclesiastical Revenues, and for the Moral and Religious Education of the People of Ireland; which was read a first time, and ordered to be read a second time on Monday next.
 Mr. Miles : I certainly do not think it fair that a Motion in which the hon. Member for St. Ives is personally concerned, should be discussed in his absence.
 Sir G. Clerk  doubted very much whether the hon. Member for St. Ives would move a resolution on the Corporation Reform Bill in conformity with the terms of the notice which he had given. He did not mean to express his concurrence in, or give his support to, the Motion of the hon. Member for St. Ives; but he merely wished to observe that when the hon. Member should make the Motion it would be then competent to any other Member to move that the resolution which he might submit be expunged; and he believed that it had not been unusual for hon. Members who entertained a strong opinion on any Measure passing through that House to take the same means as the hon. Member for St. Ives had used of expressing their minds in bold and sometimes not very decorous language. This was a mode of attack to which the late Mr. Sheridan had frequently resorted, and in one instance with reference to the Royal Marriage Act; and he did not see what the hon. Member for Exeter could gain by having his Motion agreed to, because even if the Motion were expunged it would still be in the power of the hon. Member for St. Ives to bring forward his Motion if he should think fit. The notice was only an intimation to the House that it was intended to bring forward such a Motion, and the House, he thought, should not be called on to interfere with that notice.
 Mr. Ruthven  thought it rather premature to expunge the notice without hearing the defence of the hon. Member for St. Ives, if he had any to make.
 Mr. Fresh field  had had no intention to hurt the feelings of the hon. and gallant Member for East Surrey, or to misrepresent the political sentiments of his constituents, which he had still the best reason for believing, were for the most part quite adverse to those of the hon. and gallant Member. He still believed that if that hon. Gentleman persevered in his present course, he would at the next election lose that seat which had been mainly secured to him by the Conservatives in preference to the other candidate. The hon. and gallant Member had asserted that the subscribers to the petition which he (Mr. Freshfield) presented the other night, might be respectable, but they were wrong-headed. Now, he (Mr. Freshfield), of his own personal knowledge, could assure the hon. and gallant Member that at any rate the greater part of them were any thing but wrong-headed. So far from he (Mr. Freshfield) having misrepresented the political sentiments of the people of East Surrey, he had received the thanks of several public meetings held there, for having vindicated their political opinions.
 Mr. Denison  said, that he was not present the other evening, or he should have made a few observations on the occasion. On reading the debates, however, in the newspapers of next morning, he had been exceedingly struck by the remarks made by the hon. Member for Penryn; for, having represented Surrey for many years, he was surprised at the sentiments ascribed to the people of the Eastern Division of the county by the hon. Member, which were wholly different from those which in a long experience he had ever found them to be. Under the cir-
 304
 Mr. Miles  considered that the notice was not worthy of the consideration which seemed to be attached to it by the Motion of the hon. Member for Middlesex.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would not have addressed the House at that moment, had it not been for some not very candid observations which had fallen from the hon. Member for Stroud. The hon. Gentleman had adopted rather an extraordinary tone in the course of his speech, and had been pleased to assume that hon. Gentlemen who were connected with Ireland differed with him as to the view he took of the subject, because they
 325 326 327 in loco parentis, 328 Hon. Member, 329 P. Scrope 330 331
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that it was clear that the hon. Member did not understand the Statute of Elizabeth. The abuses of which he spoke flowed necessarily out of that Statute; for the principle of the Statute of Elizabeth was, that the labourer who had employment should contribute a portion of his labour to the person who had no employment. The necessary consequences of such a principle was, that abuses grew out of it. He had come down to the House with the intention of voting that the Bill be referred to a Committee, and he had been determined in that intention not by the speeches which he heard in favour of the Bill, but by those which he had heard against it. The hon. Member for Knaresborough had amused him not a little. He had called upon him to give some arguments in favour of the introduction of Poor-laws in Ireland. Now the only reason which he (Mr. O'Connell) would give for their introduction was this, that although the system of Poor-laws was a bad one, still they were driven by necessity, not by choice, to do something for the relief of the indigent poor of Ireland. They were driven to it even at the expense of the property of the country. The hon. Member for Knaresborough by his speech drove them to this. [Mr.  Richards 336 per saltum. 337 No, no! 338 The Morning Herald 339
 The Lord Advocate  opposed the Bill. He was understood to object that it gave the tenant the power of determining the improvements that were necessary on the estates. He hoped the gallant Member would not press his Motion, as he (the Lord Advocate) had scarcely had sufficient time to consider of its provisions. If his hon. Friend pressed the Motion, he should be obliged to move that the Report be reconsidered that day three months.
 Captain Gordon  said, that last Session the learned Lord asked for delay. It had been before the House the whole of the present Session, and yet the learned Lord asked for further time. This was the more to be regretted, since the subject was one of great importance in many parts of Scotland. He (Captain Gordon) thought that the learned Lord was quite mistaken, if he supposed that the Bill would give the tenant the power of determining what improvements were needed on the estate. The Bill proposed to carry into effect the agreement between the landlord and tenant, therefore it was the landlord who was to determine. The tenant was to pay for the improvements in the course of his lease, and at the end of the lease the landlord was to pay for
 343
 The Lord Advocate  repeated, that, in his opinion, the Bill ought not to pass; and he hoped the hon. and gallant Member would impute it to no unwillingness on his part to study the provisions of the Bill, if, retaining as he did, the objections which he had stated last year, he persisted in his opposition.
 Captain Berkeley  said that if any officer on board his Majesty's navy had acted in the manner described by the hon. Member, he was liable to be tried by a Court-martial, as well as to an action from the owners of the merchant vessel. He did not believe that such a circumstance as that stated was ever known.
 Captain Berkeley  said, he did not mean to impugn the veracity of the hon. Member, but merely to deny that such proceedings were common on the part of naval officers.
 Mr. Cresset Pelham  said, that looking at the state of the poor in this country, he thought it dangerous, unless upon good grounds, to introduce Poor-laws into Ireland.
 Mr. Bennett  considered the effects of the measure as regarded England to be quite a minor matter. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had told them (as he had often told them), that all the evils of Ireland were to be attributed to bad, or in the terms used by the hon. and learned Member, Tory Government. Now he agreed with the hon. and learned Member entirely, and that one of the chief causes of that misgovernment was the absence of the Poor-laws. He remembered making motions for Committees to consider the propriety of making some legal provision for the poor of Ireland, and those motions for Committees had always been refused by Tory Governments. He had voted in many minorities upon those motions against a Tory Government, and he had rarely known a Whig Government refuse those Committees. But it was rather surprising to hear the hon. and learned Member for Dublin saying (although he had made the strongest possible speech against Poor-laws in Ireland) that he would now vote for the Bill being read a second time. He knew full well that a Committee was the way to get rid of the question altogether. He contended that it was a most pressing question, he put it upon much higher grounds than the benefit which would accrue from it to England, or to Ireland—to this country, or to that—he put it upon this: that it was an act of justice towards those persons who, being in society, should be able to live in society. He contended that it was an act of justice that those persons who were born into the world should be able to live by their labour, and by the sweat of their brows. It was the duty of the state to enable them to maintain themselves, that was the principle upon which he called upon the House to decide the question before them. It was of a much higher description than the benefit which was expected to result from the measure to England, by relieving her from the superabundance of Irish labour. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had also stated another point, in which he (Mr. Bennett) believed him to be much in error, viz. that, wherever the Poor-laws were introduced, there followed misery and wretchedness. The hon. and learned Member had taken the cause for the effect of the Poor-law system. He was not advocating the particular system which was before the. House, which he did not
 340
 Major Beauclerk,  though priding himself on having been elected as the representative of the Liberal interest in East Surrey, was happy, though surprised, to hear that his success had not been disagreeable to the Conservatives. That the Liberal interest was the stronger one in that county was evident from the fact, that while himself, as candidate on that interest, though coming late to the contest, was returned without the expenditure of any—but the least possible—amount of money, many thousands of pounds were laid out on the opposite side of the question. No doubt there were many Conservatives in Surrey, but the Liberal interest constituted the vast majority.
 Major Beauclerk  had a Petition to present from Reigate, in favour of Municipal and Church Reform. It was signed by 105 out of the 160 electors who formed the constituency of that town, and by several hundreds of the other inhabitants. The petition expressed the
 301 302
 Mr. Aaron Chapman  said, that he had seldom been more gratified than by hearing the provisions of the Bill described. The permission to return home would reconcile men to the service. Impressment might be necessary on the sudden breaking out of hostilities; but the encouragement which this Bill held out to sailors would induce them to come forward voluntarily and enrol themselves in the defence of their country.
 Colonel Leith Hay  differed entirely from the hon. Member who spoke last, as to the way in which this Motion should be treated by the House. He did not think that such a notice should be allowed to remain on the books. He could not bring himself to believe that the hon. Member who placed it there had not sense enough to see that such a mode of proceeding was far from being conducive to the maintenance of the dignity of the House. The hon. Member might have considered it a very good joke, but it was certainly one which ought not to have been played within the precincts of that House.
 Mr. Anthony Lefroy  regretted that the hon. and learned Member for Dublin should have introduced such a tone and spirit of party into this discussion as must tend to defeat the object which he presumed they all had in view—some improvement in the condition of the people of Ireland. He was glad to hear the opinions which had fallen on this subject from the noble Lord and the right hon. Gentleman. The Bill he did not consider a good one for the object in view, but, at the same time, he would say that if any measure could be devised for the relief of the really distressed, the sick and impotent, it should have his support, but he was opposed to giving any claim for relief to the able-bodied poor.
 Mr. C. Wood  then rose and said, this Bill had been a long time before the House, and had lately been transferred into the hands of the Government by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Cumberland (Sir J. Graham). The object of the measure was to improve the condition of seamen employed in his Majesty's navy, and to render the service more agreeable to them than it was at present. Upon the subject of impressment he would merely say, that, having given the greatest attention to it, he did not entertain the slightest doubt of its legality, and he believed that it was necessary to retain some power of compulsory service, as indeed was admitted by almost every hon. member who had taken part in the discussion. The hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Buckingham) proposed a system of registration, as a means of manning the navy in cases of emergency. Upon the possibility of establishing such a system, he must, at present, decline giving an opinion; all he could say was, that the present Board of Admiralty would give their best attention to the subject, with the view of ascertaining whether it were in their power to establish such a system with benefit to the country. He was perfectly aware that in a Bill which had passed the House, a system of registration was established; upon that he would only say, that he very much doubted whether that system had worked well;
 344 345
 Mr. Divett  would withdraw his Motion for expunging the notice, if that was the feeling of the House.
 Mr. Divett  conceived that such a notice was a gross insult, as well to the House as to the respectable householders intended to be incorporated under the new Municipal Bill. Having given notice to the hon. Member for St. Ives, that he would call the attention of the House to this subject at five o'clock; and as the hon. Member did not choose to make his appearance, he thought he was justified in at once moving, "That a notice having appeared on the books from the hon. Member for St. Ives, which appears to be a gross insult to this House, and to the householders to whom the Corporation Bill is meant to apply, it is the wish of the House that such notice be expunged."
 Mr. Divett  rose to call the attention of the House to a very extraordinary act on the part of the hon. Member for St. Ives (Mr. Halse.)
 Mr. Divett : If the terms in which the notice is drawn up had been used in the heat of debate, I should be willing to concede to the suggestion of the hon. Member for Dublin; but as it appears to be a notice coolly and deliberately penned, I feel bound to persevere in the Motion which I have made.
 Mr. Divett  had seen the hon. Member about twenty minutes ago, in the House,
 305
 Mr. George F. Young  could not concur in the principle laid down by the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that capital would not be increased by a Poor-law in Ireland. It was well known that, a great portion of the capital of Ireland consisted of rent, and the greater portion of that rent was sent out of the country, and employed in foreign or English labour; it was clear if that capital were kept at home, a great portion of it would be employed to buy Irish labour, and would then give work to a considerable number of labouring Irish who now sought to find labour by emigration, they following the capital, in fact, to have their share of it. The outrages that had been committed in Ireland were, in his opinion, chiefly caused from want of food arising from want of employment. That prevented English capital from going into the country, and took out of it much Irish capital which would otherwise remain. In his opinion, a wise and prudent provision for the destitute poor would be the means of restoring tranquillity to that country, and would thus correct the two evils with respect to capital which he had just noticed. He regretted the present measure had not been introduced in the shape of Resolutions rather than a Bill, and he must say that the present Bill was in some respects rather clumsily concocted, and contained provisions to which he could not assent, but at the same time he must protest against negativing a principle which was in itself so just as the leading principle of that Bill. All that was in fact required was to extend to Ireland the principle of the Statute of Elizabeth freed from its defects. If the Government had come forward and stated boldly that it would be ready to grapple with this measur in the next Session, or if it had
 335
 Mr. Aglionby  would consent to send the Bill to a Committee for the purpose of striking out any Clauses to which he objected, though he owned he at present saw very few Clauses of which he could approve. By this Bill, if the House assented to it, they would be bringing the Government into collision with the people of Ireland. He could not support this measure, because it was a partial one; but he would willingly support any general measure to mitigate the great distress of the unfortunate poor in Ireland. He implored the House to consider what would be the general state of Ireland supposing that only two or three parishes adopted this Bill. The poor of other parishes would flock into those parishes which adopted its provisions, and the consequence would be that the resources of those parishes would soon be devoured, inasmuch as the Bill gave no power of removing casual poor. He should certainly give his vote against the proposition of the hon. Member behind him. In order that it might not go forth to the public, that in voting against this Bill the House were voting against the introduction of Poor-laws into Ireland, he hoped that the hon. Member would withdraw it, or that, if he would only move that it be read a second time, for the purpose of letting it go before the public now, and perfecting it afterwards, when the Government should have received the report of the Irish Poor-law Commissioners.
 Mr. Barron  said, that if the Bill were pressed to a division he must vote against the Motion of his hon. Friend, as there were portions of it to which he could on no account give his assent. He hoped, however, that his hon. Friend would not place him under that unpleasant necessity, but would of his own accord withdraw his Motion.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that, taking for granted that the notice was given as a mode of conveying the opinions of the hon. Member on the subject of the Corporation Bill, it must be considered rather a speech than a notice. It was, at all events, a very inconvenient mode of carrying into effect the supposed intention of the hon. Member for St. Ives, and he would, therefore, support the Motion for expunging the notice.
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that he should trouble the House with but few observations; and these would be chiefly expressions of congratulations and of praise. Those hon. Members who knew the deep interest which he had taken in the Question of manning his Majesty's navy without recourse to impressment, and the Motions which he had brought before the House in the two preceding Sessions on this subject, would readily believe him, when he said that he had watched the progress of this Bill with intense anxiety. When it was first introduced into the House by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Cumberland, and late first Lord of the Admiralty, (Sir James Graham) it contained so much that was objectionable that he felt it his duty to state his determination to oppose it. In its original shape, it was a Bill professing to offer new inducements to voluntary enlistments, but under that title, really enacting impressment, and giving to that revolting practice all the sanction of a statutory power, which it never yet had, and which he hoped it never would possess. Even when the Bill was transferred from the hands of the right hon. Baronet to the present Government, he (Mr. Buckingham) felt it his duty to declare that unless purged of these defects, he should still feel bound to give it his decided opposition, whether moved by the Government or by any private individual; because he never would for a moment consent to such an enactment as would give to impressment a statutory recognition as a part of the law of the land. Since the Bill, however, had been in the hands of the present Government, he was bound to say, and it gave him great pleasure to bear this testimony, that they had evinced the most anxious desire to meet the wishes of himself and other hon. Members who cooperated with him in maintaining the just rights of the British seamen. In this spirit of generous and liberal concession, all those parts of the original Bill which went to enact impressment as a lawful power, and give to it the force of statutory authority, were expunged, to such an extent that the Bill did not now contain more than one half of the clauses which were embodied in it; and indeed it was now, what it had never been before, a Bill of encouragements, bounties, protections, and inducements, corresponding to its preamble and its title as a Bill to encourage the volun-
 347 348
 Mr. James Grattan  said, though the subject was without doubt embarrassed by many weighty and serious considerations, he should notwithstanding press it on the attention of the House, because of the magnitude of the evils which it went to remedy. It was not a question of party or of faction—perhaps if it had been, it would have long since received more attention—but it was one which concerned the poor of Ireland alone. Notwithstanding the indisposition shown on all occasions to entertain any Bill like the measure before the House, the subject of Poor-laws for Ireland would ultimately, from the importance of its nature, force itself on the attention of any Government who might hold office, be their opinions what they might. There was another measure which would have the effect of accelerating that force, which was the ample and excellent Tithe Bill of the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland. It would be unfair to consider that Bill, without at the same time considering, as in connexion with it, the poor of Ireland. It was a fact, though, perhaps,
 313 314
 Mr. Richards  was of opinion that Ministers could not do otherwise at so late a
 317 per saltum, d. 318 officina operum, There were few Members on the Opposition side the Ministerial, Benches were full. non equidem invidio miror magis. 319
 Mr. Wilks  said, that though the propriety pf bringing this question forward might, in
 308
 Mr. Hume : Then I shall move, that the notice given by the hon. Member for St. Ives be discontinued in the votes.
 Mr. Hume  was as much alive to the importance of the subject of Poor-laws for Ireland as any of the hon. Members from that country could be, and he considered the question to be of equal importance to English Members as the subject of their own Poor-laws. He had for twenty years exerted himself on all occasions to expose the system of misrule and wrong-doing towards Ireland, from which so many of her evils sprung, and which he was of opinion had wholly caused her present destitute and wretched condition, and he must say, that he at one time was very much disposed to believe that the only remedy would be to apply the Poor-law system to that country, as it had been done here. But when he came to consider the causes of that misery and destitution, owing to the pertinacity with which English Ministers adhered to the maintenance of all the abuses which had existed for ages in Ireland, and which had cramped the industry and thwarted the views of those who would have employed their capital in the encouragement of manufactures and public works, he must say, that he did not think the introduction of any system of Poor-laws, however perfect, would be attended with success, unless the predisposing causes of the evils to which he had referred, were altogether, or partially removed. For this reason he was not disposed to view the question in the light in which many hon. Members had attempted to place it before the House. The proposition of the hon. Member for Wicklow, for affording the destitute poor of Ireland relief by setting them to work, and paying them for it, was of all plans the only one likely to succeed, and it was also the most rational. But the consideration presented itself whether Ireland had ever been in a situation to warrant the employment of capital; and he answering this question in the negative, would also affirm that until the present system of misrule was changed to a better and more liberal system, there
 320 ultimatum
 Mr. Hume  said, that he thought that the continuance of such a notice on their books, as that which had been given by the hon. Member for St. Ives, was little creditable to the common sense or the dignity of the House. He hoped that such a notice, which he could not call an insult to the House, because he did not know what was the intention of the hon. Member who placed it on the Journals, would not be any longer continued on the books.
 Mr. Hume  would second such a motion. He was certainly desirous that the hon. Member to whom it referred should be present before they entered on any proceeding in the matter; but after the explanation which had been given on this point by the hon. Member for Exeter, he did not see any reason why the Motion should be delayed. It had always been understood that no notice should be inserted on the
 306
 Mr. Hume : As I understand, the hon. Member alluded to by the hon. Member for Exeter is not present, would it not be better to postpone the Motion until he is in the House?
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  felt satisfied that the maintenance of the impotent and the infirm Irish poor was not sufficient, but that one of the main principles in any system to be adopted ought to be, that employment should be furnished to those who were destitute of it. The latter he
 321 322 323 s. s., 324
 Captain Alsager  said, that having been engaged in the merchant service for thirty years of his life, he might presume to say that he knew something of the feelings of British sailors, and he begged to express their gratitude for the benefits which the. Bill held out to them. At the same time he could not but regret that the power of impressment had not been entirely abolished. He had known instances in which that power had been harshly exercised. Upon occasion when he entered the Chan-
 349 l.
 Captain Alsager : I rise to order. The circumstance happened to myself. The commander of the king's ship was Captain Page, and his vessel the Caroline. I was coming from the East Indies.
 Mr. Sheil  thought enough had been admitted on all sides to induce the House to send the bill to a Committee. The Bill, it should be recollected, did not make it obligatory on a parish to borrow funds or to assess its inhabitants for the relief of the poor—that was left optional, and the power would be used only in cases of emergency. The noble Lord had stated
 341
 Captain George Fergusson  moved the further consideration of the Report.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  spoke amid the general impatience of the House. After deprecating the inhuman sentiments so often expressed by the political economists on the subject of Poor-laws, the hon. Member proceeded to express a wish that the hon. Member had turned his Bill into a Resolution declaring the necessity of introducing a well-regulated system of Poor-laws into Ireland. In that case he had no doubt but that the hon. Member would have had a majority of the House in his favour. If such a system of Poor-laws were given to Ireland, that country would undergo a great and immediate beneficial change. The peasantry which inhabited it were not idly disposed, on the contrary they were most desirous to obtain employment; still, though he had rather have had a resolution declaratory of the necessity of introducing Poor-laws into Ireland, he did hope that this Bill would not be withdrawn.
 Mr. William S. O'Brien  said, that he had heard much in favour of the Bill, and nothing against it; for the right hon. Gentleman who last addreseed the House had gone the whole length of admitting the leading principle of the Bill. He had said he would give relief to the sick, diseased, maimed, and impotent. The Bill scarcely went further, and he called on the friends of the principle to help its promoters to arrange in the Committee the machinery by which its principle might be carried out. His hon. Friend proposed to refer it to a Select Committee for the purpose of ascertaining how far
 332 l. l. 333
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  was of opinion that even a more extensive system of Poor-laws was necessary for Ireland than that proposed by the present Bill, but that was no reason why they should reject the present measure. In that part of Ireland with which he was connected there had been established several mendicity societies, from which the poor of the neighbourhood had derived great relief; but now these were failing from want of the power to assess the districts in which they were located, and that was the principle for which the present Bill contended. He, therefore, gave his support to the Bill, though in doing so he had no wish to take any step that would embarrass the Government.
 Sir Edmund Hayes  hoped that if the present Motion were carried, the Bill might not be referred to a Select Committee. He thought it would be much better to have it discussed in the whole House. In voting against the Motion, he wished to be understood as not being opposed to the principle of a Poor-law, but to him it appeared that to remain as they were would be much less objectionable than to enter upon a bad system, and as no two Gentlemen seemed as yet agreed upon the kind of system that should be adopted, he thought that if they legislated in their present unprepared state, they must do so improperly and injuriously. It was to be regretted that some Gentlemen, who were disposed to take an active part with respect to Irish Poor-laws, had not made themselves better acquainted with the necessity for them, and the probable operation of those laws in Ireland. He was led to this observation
 334
 Sir Thomas Troubridge  concurred in what had fallen from the hon. Member who had spoken last, and added that it was not the practice for captains in the command of his Majesty's ships of war to distress merchant ships, and he was satisfied that the case related by the hon. Member for Surrey (Captain Alsager) must have occurred under very peculiar circumstances.
 Sir Richard Musgrave  rose to move the second reading of the Irish Poor-laws' Bill. He was aware of the great difficulty which there was in pressing on a Bill which had not the sanction and support of the Government; and how much more forcible he felt that difficulty when the Administration were adverse or indifferent to it, he thought he need not say. But, considering the condition of the poor of Ireland, he deemed it his duty to have the opinion of the British Legislature on it recorded, and he should, therefore, press the Motion for a second reading of the Bill. There was nothing to deter him from so doing in any argument which he had as yet heard used, and there was nothing which should impede English Members from voting for his measure. Unless any hon. Member should rise in his place, and state that the Reports which, from time to time, had been laid on the Table of the House respecting the manifold and great distress of Ireland, were no proof of its existence—unless it was denied that crowds of starving Irish paupers were annually driven by the direst distress from their own country, and discharged upon this—unless it were contradicted that the poor-rate of England was infinitely increased by the maintenance which was afforded them, or the expenses of their transition back to their own country—or by the support of reduced labourers of this country, unable to compete with the desperate poverty of the Irish labourer—unless all this were done, there was no argument in anything which had been said on the subject against the necessity of a system of Poor-laws for Ireland. As, however, none of these things were denied, none of them contradicted, he felt he was fully justified in the course he had adopted, and in which he was determined to persevere, of bringing the matter before the British Legislature. Every one who lived in Ireland, knew what crowds of wretched paupers were supported by voluntary contributions in that country; and every one who had made any inquiries into the actual condition of the poor was, he was satisfied, aware that nearly as many more pined and
 309 310 311 312
 Sir Richard Musgrave  was understood to say, that in the present state of public business he could not rationally expect to get the Bill through the House during the present session. He wished to have the Bill read a second time, to have it amended
 342
 Lord Eastnor  admitted that his political opinions were not consonant with those of many of his constituents. He was not at all surprised at the sentiments contained in this petition, knowing as he did, the means which had for some time past been in operation to create an excitement on these subjects in the borough whence it emanated. He was convinced, too, that many of the petitioners did not know the exact nature of what they had subscribed. The petition expressed its desire for the passing of the Municipal Reform Bill unaltered. Now although he was favourable to the general principle of the measure, he could not consent to the passing of every portion of it in its present state. In reference to the Reform of the Church too, the petitioners went infinitely too far; nor did he believe that they expressed the feeling of that part of the county on the subject. For himself he would say that, ever since he had had a seat in that House, it had been his anxious desire to promote all such measures as tended to give persons differing from himself in religious sentiments, all the advantages which he considered them fairly and justly entitled to, consistent with the maintenance of the Protestant Establishment in all its efficiency. The Measure, however, which was now before the House, appeared to him to have a direct tendency to impair that efficiency; and the petitioners went still further, for what they contemplated was the utter destruction of the Church. He
 303
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that he rose early, in order to communicate to the House the course which he intended to take upon the subject. His hon. Friend who had brought forward the Motion had consulted him upon it, and he had begged his hon. Friend to defer all proceedings until such time as the House should be in possession of the Report of the Commission appointed to inquire into the state of the poor of Ireland. He had then told his hon. Friend, that in a month he hoped to be able to lay the Report upon the Table of the House, and he had been able to fulfil his expectations, for a month had elapsed precisely on that day: and he had that day brought up the voluminous Report of the Commissioners, and had laid it on the Table. The House had not had an opportunity of reading the papers, but he knew their contents, and he was sorry to say that he could not hold out to the hon. Mover a hope of any practical benefits that
 315 316
 Sir George Strickland  supported the Bill. It was an act of tardy justice and mercy; for he considered it nothing more. If the Bill went to do justice in the capital case, why not extend it to all inferior cases? But then came a most formidable argument that this Bill would occupy so much of the time of the Courts of Justice. They were, therefore, to inflict imprisonment, perhaps transportation, because it would occupy too much of the time of the Judges and Magistrates at Quarter Sessions to inquire into the cases brought before them. He did not believe that such an argument could be sincerely stated by any Member of the House. It was always a matter of astonishment to him that they should have gone on so long with the present system. Every person who attended Courts of Justice in England—there were many Counsel present—he appealed to them, he appealed to the late Attorney-General, the Member for Northampton (Sir F. Pollock), who, in a speech full of argument and good feeling, supported this Bill, every person who attended our Courts of Justice, like the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir F. Pollock) felt shame at the exhibition he witnessed. The hon. and learned Gentleman had stated that opinion, and he had only expressed the general opinion coming from such an authority, which he hoped the House would agree with him was a high one; he would say that he would take no shame to himself for supporting this Bill, which he hailed as an act of tardy justice, to enable prisoners to make a defence in a Court of Justice.
 Sir E. Wilmot  explained—During twenty-nine years that he had attended the Sessions, he had known hardly a case in which any statement whatever was made against the prisoner by Counsel. The practice always was, the instant the Jury was sworn, to call witnesses. If a speech were made on the part of the prosecution, he would allow a speech to be made for the prisoner. He did not use the loss of time as an argument—he did not care whether he sat a week or twelve months; but his opinion being that it would make against the prisoners, he used the argument of taking tip the time of the Court as auxiliary to his other argument.
 Mr. Ruthven  supported the Bill, think-
 363
 The Chairman  suggested that it would be better for the hon. Member to reserve his Motion until they came to some town in the schedule to which it was intended to give thirty or more than thirty Councillors.
 Mr. Williams  did not think the number proposed by the Bill too large. It should be remembered that, as the noble Lord had observed, the Members of these Town Councils would have their own business to attend to as well as that of the public. Adverting to the number of the Common Council of the city of London, he maintained that if, instead of that number, the number was only sixty, the whole of their time would be occupied by the business of the city.
 Mr. Williams , in explanation, observed, that the due execution of the duties to be imposed upon the Town Councils would occupy much time; and that, unless there was a division of labour, those duties would be imperfectly discharged.
 Sir George Clerk , in order to show that the number of Members of the Town Council prescribed by the Bill for Bath was excessive, adverted to the case of Paisley, a place of nearly equal population, the Municipal authority of which consisted of a body composed of only sixteen individuals.
 Mr. Wallace  rose in conformity with the notice which he had given, to bring forward a Motion respecting the state of the Post-office. Before he proceeded, he begged to state, that in any remarks which he might be induced to make, he wished the House to bear in mind, that when he spoke of the Officers of the Post-office, he only alluded to them as public men, and that, beyond that, he had no knowledge of them. He was in a similar situation with regard to the Gentleman who had conducted the Revenue Inquiry, on whose Report the observations which he should have to make were chiefly founded. He was satisfied, from that Report, that the department of the Post-office was capable of much more extensive utility than it was likely to attain as long as the present system was persisted in. That system had now been acted upon for fifty years, and he was more and more convinced, from what he saw, that the Post-office could be administered more advantageously to the public if a great change were to take place. Before he proceeded to the subject matter of his Motion, he should very briefly revert to what had been said of him in another place by a noble Duke, who was formerly Postmaster-General. He would not recriminate on that Nobleman, but he thought that he should have no difficulty in showing that
 373 l. 374 l. 375 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 376 d. d. d. d. d. l. l. s. 377 l. l. 378 s. hocus pocus d. d. 379 l., l., l. l. l. l. 380 
 1st. That the Post-office is a great and most important establishment, declaredly for the convenience and advantage of the whole body of the people, rather than one of revenue. 2nd. That the net revenue of the Post-office has been falling off of late years. 3rd. That every other branch of the revenue has been increasing, and very generally in proportion as the rates of taxes have been diminished. 4th. That the same result may fairly be expected to follow a general reduction of the rates of postage; and a more liberal and extended post communication. 381 5th. That the convenience and advantage of the people will be best consulted by a low rate of postage; and post communications established with every village in the empire. 6th. That two and one penny posts can only be considered as local posts. 7th. That two and one penny posts, therefore, can injustice be viewed only as short distance posts; and in fairness, and on principle, must be conducted on the same rules as longer distance posts. 8th. That to superadd two or one penny postage to letters charged with general postage, merely because it suits the convenience of the Post-office to cause the delivery to be made by the local post, is unjust, becase it is against the true spirit of distance being the sole and only rule of charge of letters. 9th. That to charge newspapers with two and one penny postage, merely because it suits the Post-office partially to transmit a portion of them through a local post, is still more unjust, because the declared practice, as well as the principle of the law is, that newspapers shall be delivered free of postage; and it is a perversion of this principle, and a quibble raised against the true spirit of the law, over and above being in violation of the unalterable right of equal taxation, to charge postage on newspapers going short distances, while they are legally sent, in all directions, hundreds of miles, free of all charges whatever. 10th. That no postage whatever shall be demanded or paid in future, on newspaper, sent by post in Great Britain or Ireland. 11th. That no postage shall be demanded or paid (without the previous sanction of Parliament) on newspapers sent from foreign countries. 12th. That prices current and the like mercantile communications, having their covers open at the sides, shall on payment of 2 d. 13th. That prices current and the like mercantile communications sent as above from foreign countries, shall be conveyed by post in Great Britain and Ireland, our colonies and dependencies, on payment of 2 d. 14th. That letters addressed to, and by, Members of Parliament, from and to our colonies and dependencies, shall pass free as they do in this country. 15th. That letters shall be charged by weight and that charges on letters having envelopes, or on double, or such like letters, shall be discontinued. 16th. That Members of Parliament, when resident in London may frank on Monday the number of letters allowed by law on Sunday, as well as those on Monday. 17th. That it shall be declared lawful, as it unquestionably is just, for persons everywhere to send, carry, and receive letters by private conveyances of any kind, provided there is no
 382 18th. That the arrival and departure of mails from London should be at different hours, according to circumstances. 19th. That a morning and evening mail should be despatched daily on all the great lines of communication—the hour of the morning departure to be made convenient for conveying the morning newspapers. 20th. That every mail-coach should average the rate of ten miles an hour. 21st. That this arrangement would simplify and cheapen the communication with Ireland. 22nd. That it would be the means of placing the whole mail-bags under cover, in place of being piled on the top, and injured by wet, as at present. 23rd. That all Post-office communications by steam-packets should be effected by contract. 24th. That post communications by steam-packets, hired for the pupose, or being traders should be established wherever the time required be less by sea than by land.
 Lord Lowther  was favourable to the Motion of the hon. Member for Greenock; and differed entirely from the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken as to the superiority of a Commission to a Committee of the House of Commons in making an inquiry of this nature. He knew from experience that a Commission was inefficient to grapple with so strong a body as the Post-office department. When he had the honour to belong to a Commission of that nature, the Post-office almost set them at defiance; and it was found by the Commission to be a matter of the greatest difficulty to extract from the Post-office any information necessary for the elucidation of the inquiry. The Post-office authorities were, equally negligent in complying with the orders of the House. A paper was called for by the House in October last; in March and April last the application for this return, which was one of consequence, was renewed, and it was not forthcoming on the last day of April. Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman could say whether it had since been made. [Mr.  Labouchere: 386 l. l. 387 s. s.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed that there was no one whose opinions on this subject were entitled to so much weight as the noble Lord the Member for Westmoreland. The noble Lord possessed the two best elements of knowledge on the subject. He possessed a knowledge of the principle on which the office in question ought to be conducted, and he possessed a knowledge of the fact as to the manner in which it had actually
 388 389 390 391
 Lord Lowther  explained. He had not complained of the heads of the department having refused the production of papers; he complained of the tardiness, or obstinacy, on the part of witnesses and other persons in refusing to produce papers before the Commissioners.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  understood the noble Lord to state that the inquiry had been impeded by the stubborn and obstinate nature of the department in withholding evidence which the Commissioners required. He would take it upon himself to say, that if any person connected with that department should be shown to refuse to give information to the Commissioners, that person should be dismissed from his office the next day.
 Mr. Evelyn Denison  preferred the inquiry to be continued by the Commissioners; but so satisfied was he of the existence of great abuses in the Post-office Department, that if, during the recess, the Commissioners should not be able to bring the Inquiry to a close, nobody would be more ready than himself to support a Motion for a Committee early in the next Session.
 Mr. Wallace , in reply, said, that he had perfect confidence in his Majesty's Government, and in the assurances that had been made by them, that they would attend to the subject he had brought before the House. He had brought forward the Question on former occasions and had been requested by Lord Althorp to withdraw his Motion because a Commission would be appointed. He agreed with several hon. Members, however, who had addressed the House, that a Committee up stairs would on every account be more satisfactory than a Commission issued by the Crown. They had last night an instance of a difference arising between Commissioners where one of them differed from his associates, and chose to make a separate Report. Supposing, however, that a Commission was appointed, they might have to wait a considerable time for the evidence, and when they had it laid before them they would not know how it had been given; but before a Committee up stairs they would be able to learn the nature of the evidence and to understand its different bearings. He did not intend on that occasion to follow up his Motion by pressing it to a division, in consequence of the confidence he had in the present Government, although he had been recommended to do so. The only object that he had in view in bringing the subject before the House was to obtain a full inquiry. He was satisfied, however, on the present occasion with the declarations of his Majesty's Ministers, and he hoped that the suggestions that had been thrown out on the subject would be taken into consideration with as little delay as possible. The hon. Member withdrew his Motion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that if the Motion, of which he had given notice was likely to lead to any controversy or discussion he would postpone it; but he was confident that hon. Gentlemen would be satisfied with the course he had taken when they recollected the nature of the Motion he had to propose, as well as the conduct of the individual who was particularly connected with it. He need hardly state that the object of his Motion had reference to the retirement of one of the officers of that House. A Treasury Minute was on the
 396 Saturday, June 6, 1835. My dear Sir,—I request you to allow me to trouble you upon a subject of some importance to myself. I am desirous of telling you that, finding my health to have been suffering considerably within the last three or four years, and being quite convinced that the climate of London and the hours are very detrimental to me, I wish to resign my office, provided I may be permitted to do so, retaining the difference between my salary and that to which my successor, by an Act passed last year, will be entitled. I believe you are aware that the office of King's Sergeant attending the House of Commons is held by patent, and that the salary is 2,300 l. l. The salary of my successor, as fixed by the Act of last year, is 1,500 l. l. 397 If what I have submitted for your consideration shall appear to you to be such a proposition as I am justified in making, you will oblige me particularly by taking such steps as in your judgment may be advisable for making it known to the Government, in order to its being carried into effect, in the event of its being approved of. I have only to add, that my private fortune being a very small one, I could not, under any circumstance, resign my office, unless a retiring salary should be secured to me. (Signed) HENRY SEYMOUR. To the Right Honourable the Speaker. 398
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  cordially supported the Motion. He begged to remind the House that the present Sergeant-at-Arms had held that office for a long period, during which he had most attentively and considerately performed all its duties. Mr. Clementson, the Deputy Sergeant-at-Arms, had held that
 399
 Mr. Scarlett  rose to move the Amendment of which he had given notice, to exempt from the operation of the Bill all boroughs to which it was proposed by the schedules to give thirty Councillors, the population being, as he thought, too
 366 367
 Mr. Scarlett  said, seeing no disposition in the Committee to support his Motion he begged leave to withdraw it.
 Lord John Russell  said, he had some alterations to propose in the Schedules with regard to several of the places which they contained, but they were not of a very important character. With respect to one borough (Malmesbury), he proposed striking it out of the Schedules altogether, its population being principally of an agricultural character, and especially as he found that under a Local-act there existed rights of inheritance with which he did not think it right to interfere. He considered it better to reserve that borough to be classed with various others, not included in the schedules, for any separate Bill which hereafter Parliament might think proper to introduce. There were also some alterations which he should find it necessary to submit with respect to the number of Councillors. He did not think it desirable that the precise number for each borough should be definitively settled by the Bill; towns being divided into wards, and a specific number of Councillors being required for each, there might arise in some cases considerable inconvenience in providing fit and proper persons to undertake the office. The Privy Council should, therefore, he thought, have the power of fixing the number of Councillors at twelve, sixteen, twenty-four, thirty, or more, according to the condition of individual boroughs. The noble Lord in conclusion moved that Aberystwith stand part of Schedule A.
 Lord John Russell  observed, that in considering the number of Members of which a Town Council should consist, it ought to be remembered that the individuals composing that Council were far from being persons who could devote the whole of their time to public duties. The greater part of them were occupied in trade or business; and it was only their extra time that they could spend at the meetings of the Council. If, therefore, the number of Members of the Council was very small, the duty would fall heavily on a few of the Members. On that account, he thought the Town Council ought to be rather a numerous body—the more especially as he was not without hope that they would eventually have the whole affairs of the town under their management. It was true, that it had been represented by some persons, that the number of Members of the Town Council prescribed by the Bill, was too large; but then, it had been represented by others, that the number was too small. He thought it would be no advantage to reduce the numbers.
 Colonel Perceval  said, he should enter his protest against this Bill, as he considered it most mischievous in its tendency. Indeed he could not see that it would be
 356
 Mr. Charles Buller  admitted the force of some of the arguments directed against the details of the Bill, but he thought the principle of the Bill remained undisturbed. Indeed, there were some Clauses—that for allowing four speeches on each trial, and another for allowing Counsel to appear before Magistrates—that would, in his opinion, prevent the working of the Bill, and it would, therefore, be better to omit them. The present Lord Chief Justice (Lord Denman) who had had as much experience, as a lawyer, an advocate, and a judge, as any other legal authority, had declared himself in favour of it. The last to whom he should refer was one who, from his greatness as a lawyer, and from the circumstances under which his opinion was given, was deserving of attention, and he was, also, one of the greatest ornaments of the English Bar; he alluded to the present Lord Abinger, who came clown to the House and said that he had hitherto opposed the Bill; but he was convinced, upon mature deliberation, that it ought to pass, and, upon that occasion, he gave it his hearty support. He did not wish to enter into the merits of the Bill, but he thought it really too hard that hon Members should describe this Bill as injurious to prisoners because it would allow Counsel to defend them in a proper manner. He thought it was one of the great merits of this Bill that Counsel, instead of bothering the witnesses, and insinuating the greatest absurdities in cross-examination, would be obliged to make a plain, straightforward address to the Jury upon the clear facts of the case.
 Mr. Baines  was of opinion that the number of the Town Councils proposed by the Bill was not excessive, and he founded that opinion on the following circumstance. Every one who was acquainted with Manchester, knew that the governing body of that town consisted of 240 persons; the governing body of Salford consisted of 120 persons. Now, the number of Members prescribed by the Bill for the Town Council of Liverpool, a place, the population of which was equal to that of Manchester and Salford together, was only ninety. From those facts he inferred that the number was not excessive. Experience led him to the conclusion that the number of the Council appointed by the Bill would be adequate to administration of the various places to which they belonged, but that a diminution of that number would be injurious. There was another observation arising out of those which he had already made, with which he would likewise trouble the Committee. It should be remembered that in appointing these Councils, they were appointed, not for a stationary, but for an increasing, population, and therefore that it would be better to err on the side of excess than on that of deficiency.
 Mr. Edward Buller  thought that if the Counsel on both sides were allowed to make speeches, the mischief would far outweigh the benefit. It appeared to him that, upon the whole, prisoners, at present, were under no unfair disadvantage. The speech against them was generally
 362
 Mr. Grote  said, that as this was the first opportunity which he had of expressing an opinion with reference to the number of the Councillors, he was anxious to observe that it was neither necessary nor expedient that such a number as forty-eight should be appointed for such a town as Bath. A Council composed of thirty Members would be much more likely to give satisfaction.
 Mr. Grote  said, that with respect to the Common Council of the city of London, he thought that the great number of the Members of which it consisted was the greatest vice about it; and therefore, in his opinion, the illustration of the hon. Member for Coventry was an unfortunate one. In his opinion, it would be much better to limit the number of the Members of the Town Councils, and by that means to increase their value; for it should be recollected that the value of a body of that kind depended not on the number of the body, but on the number of its constituents. As to the allusion made by an hon. and learned Gentleman to the constitution of the Board of Directors of the East-India Company, the merit of their proceedings was attributable rather to the upper servants of the Company than to the Constitution of the Board.
 Mr. George F. Young  was not induced from his own experience of Committees to believe that a Committee was the most desirable tribunal to be selected; he would therefore support the proposition of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer; but he should feel himself at liberty to support a Motion for a Committee next Session if the Commissioners should not previously have brought their labours to a termination.
 Mr. Goring  reminded the House, that this Bill appeared again before them in the shape in which they rejected it last Session; and, therefore, without trespassing further on the time of the House, having stated last Session his reasons for the course he took, and was now about to take, he would move that the Bill be read a third time this day six months.
 Mr. Labouchere  rose and assured the House that he did not offer any objection to the course which the hon. Member for Greenock had proposed out of any disrespect for him, or by way of disparaging the credit which he deserved from the House and the country for the interest which he had taken in, and the industry which he devoted to, this very important subject; and still less did he object to the Member's Motion because he undervalued the subject itself—a subject extremely important, not merely as a question of revenue, but more especially one which involved the comfort and commercial interests of the whole community. The hon. Member for Greenock had laid down many principles in the course of his speech from which he was far from differing. He quite agreed with him that with respect to the Post-office establishment, while he believed that many departments of it were admirably conducted, yet there were many branches of it which required the most serious and searching investigation which could be bestowed on their management. Speaking from their small degree of experience and the short time during which he had devoted his attention to this subject since he became appointed one of the Commissioners of Inquiry into the Public Offices, he was bound to say, that the im-
 383 l. 384 385
 Mr. Warburton  approved of the appointment of a Committee, because he thought they might jointly carry on the Inquiry with the Commission. Of course
 394
 Mr. Horace Twiss  adverted to the constitution of the Court of Directors of the East-India Company. That body managed the affairs of one of the largest empires in the world, and had to sub-divide itself, for that purpose, into various Committees; and yet it consisted of only twenty-four Members.
 Dr. Bowring  supported the Motion. The subject was one of the greatest interest. It was certainly most extraordinary, considering the prosperity and wealth of this country, that it was the only part of Europe in which the Post-office revenue had not of late years greatly increased. He had had occasion to know that the communications of the late administration of the Post-office with the French Government had been made in a most uncourteous and unaccommodating spirit; and that the French Government felt much annoyed at the circumstance, and much indebted to his Majesty's present Ministers for their readiness to remove the existing inconveniences.
 Mr. Hardy  said, that he could not agree in what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Poulter.) He had had much experience in criminal cases, and in many, very many of them, he would have been exceedingly glad to hear the opinions of Counsel upon them. The Judge was considered, and was in fact, Counsel for the prisoner; but that was only so far as to see that the proceedings against him were all conducted, including the verdict found, according to law. Of what use, then, would Counsel be to a prisoner, if he were not allowed to do more than the Judge was now obliged to do? He should like very well to know upon what grounds the hon. Member opposed this Bill. Was it because there would be a greater waste of time than at present? If so, that ground of opposition would extend to all cases of misdemeanor, some of which were of a very aggravated nature, much more so than many cases of felony. He contended that, by allowing Counsel to prisoners, they would actually save a great deal of time, for then there would be no occasion for long cross-examinations, which were entered into for the mere purpose of affording, in the shape of the questions, an opportunity to Counsel to open as much of a case as they were allowed to do by the Judge. Nor would there be many of those objections taken, which were
 361
 Mr. Poulter  said, that instead of the present Bill, he had hoped that the hon. Member for Liverpool would have introduced one for allowing prisoner's Counsel to reply in cases where Counsel addressed the Jury. He thought the present Bill was likely to be injurious to the cause of justice. He had spoken to the late Attorney-General relative to the case of a man who had been executed for murder, heretofore alluded to as a case of doubt. The man was last seen in company with an elderly person whose skull had been fractured. The late Attorney-General had said that his impression was, that the fracture had been accidental, but this was
 360
 Mr. Roebuck  was of opinion that the number of Members of Town Councils prescribed by the Bill was excessive. He wished to ask the noble Lord why he had increased the number of the Members of the new Corporations, as compared with the old? It was said, that the new Corporations would have more to do. It might be so; but then they would enjoy greater facilities for doing it. He begged to move as an Amendment to the proposition respecting the city of Bath, "That the number thirty be substituted for the number forty-eight."
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that the people of Bath, at least, would be greatly alarmed, and troubled, if they imagined that their town was to be removed from the Bill: for certainly, if any towns were more fitted to be brought under its operation than others, they were the large towns. There might have been some pretext for the hon. Member's suggestion, with respect to the very small towns; but if the hon. Member, admitted the principle of the Bill (as it must be supposed he did, for he had not resisted the second reading) what shadow, or glimpse, of anything like reason could the hon. Member bring forward for his proposition; if he had any, he had better state it to the
 368
 Mr. Cripps  thought that the House ought to pay very great attention to the observation of the hon. Baronet (Sir E. Wilmot), after the experience he had
 357
 Mr. Hume  denied that this was a Bill for the relief of the agricultural interests; but it was intended to remedy the defects in the existing laws. Generally speaking, the tiles were given by the proprietor, and the tenant had only to place them, and could have no objection to pay Toll for them.
 Mr. Hume  said, if he differed on this occasion from the right hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House, it was not from any doubt he entertained of the honest and anxious desire of the right hon. Gentleman or of the Government to reform the system on which the Post-office was now conducted. He thought, how-
 392 393 d. d.
 Mr. Hume  stated that he was a Member of the Committee that had laid on the Table of the House a Report recommending that the servants of that House appointed after the date of the Report should receive salaries of a different nature from those then paid, and therefore he might be justified in making an observation on that occasion. He was satisfied that the present Sergeant-at-Arms was entitled to receive his full salary of 2,300 l. l.
 Mr. Nicholas Fitzsimon  thought that it would be extremely injudicious to allow prisoners brought before Magistrates Counsel and Attorneys to defend them.
 Mr. Lennard  said, that, with all respect for the opinions of those who thought that to allow prisoners to have Counsel would do them no good, he begged to say that their opinions were more than balanced by opinions equally worthy of attention on the other side. Mr. Justice Blackstone had stated, that it was a most cruel thing to deprive prisoners of Counsel, especially in cases affecting their lives, and that statement had been borne out by what had since taken place. He knew an instance—he spoke on the representation of the late Attorney-General (Sir F. Pollock) where two persons were ordered for execution, one was reprieved and the other executed, and Sir F. Pollock stated that he had no hesitation in saying that if the person executed had had Counsel he would have been reprieved also. It was said that benefits resulted to the prisoner from the present system; that argument to him was incomprehensible. It had been said, that the Judges were the Counsel for the prisoner; in his opinion, no fallacy was more glaring. How could the Judge be the prisoner's Counsel? He had no access to him; and how, therefore, could he ascertain what were the answers the prisoner made to the statements against him? There had been a return laid before the House of the number of cases that had been brought before his Majesty in Council; from that return it appeared that out of forty cases, there were fifteen in which the sentence of death had been remitted. It was only in London that cases were submitted to the King in Council; and what would have been the effect had not those cases been carried before the King in Council? Why the prisoners would very probably have been executed. In cases of murder, it was the common practice to exe-
 359
 Mr. Ewart  moved that the Counsel for Prisoners' Bill be read a third time.
 Mr. Ewart  regretted that the hon. Member would not withdraw his Amendment. He had been called upon to show ground for this Bill by facts; but they had been stated in very considerable number by the late Attorney-General (Sir F. Pollock), by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, and by the late Member for Hull. The Amendments suggested now had already been proposed in the Committee, and upon a division they had been rejected. Under these circumstances he hoped the House would now permit this Bill to be read a third time.
 Mr. Mackinnon  must complain that the hon. Member had omitted, in the observations which he had made, to state, that in cases where the prisoner had no Counsel, the Judge was to act as his Counsel. His objection to the Bill was, that it gave the rich man an advantage over the poor man. With regard to the fourth Clause, which provided that persons accused before Justices should be assisted by Attorney or Counsel, he considered it most injudicious. He would put the case of a person brought before a country gentleman not very well versed in the law. If the accused were a rich man he could employ able Counsel; and he appealed to that House, if he would not have, in such a case, a decided advantage over a poor man, brought before a Magistrate under the same circumstances, and who was unable to fee Counsel. He gave the hon. Member due credit for the humane motives which had prompted him to bring in this Bill.
 Sir Charles Burrell  admitted that the hon. and learned Members of that House, generally speaking, supported this Bill; but he was well informed by members of the profession out of the House, that the generality of them entertained a very different opinion—that they were hostile to the alteration as proposed by this Bill. At the Courts of Quarter Sessions, he had invariably seen the Chairman direct the prisoner to put any questions he pleased to the witnesses as soon as his testimony was given; and where, from want of capacity or indisposition, prisoners did not avail themselves of this power, the Chairman himself and the Magistrates questioned witnesses. He could state many instances in which prisoners were disposed to plead guilty; on those occasions the chairman invariably cautioned the prisoner against so doing, and induced him to withdraw his plea, and to put himself upon his trial; and this sometimes with advantage to the prisoner. He was of opinion that this Bill would operate unfairly between rich and poor. On every occasion the rich would be sure to have Counsel, whilst the poor would have Counsel against them, and would thus labour under greater disadvantage. Another point was, that where there was a doubt fairly entertained in a case of felony, the Judge invariably applied to his Majesty to alter the sentence, and such applications were invariably attended with success. To say, therefore, that the prisoner had not the benefit of the Judge, or Chairman of the Quarter Sessions, as Counsel, was to say that which was not founded in fact. If, through human error, a person were found guilty who was not so, it must be remembered that hundreds of felons had escaped who were really guilty. He thought the Bill unnecessary, and should therefore oppose it.
 Mr. Halford  felt it his duty to move the Amendment of which he had given notice, with respect to draining tiles. He was the more encouraged to persevere in it, because he believed it would tend to the relief of the agricultural interests. He moved, that in the first Clause, after the words "Manure for land," the words, "or draining tiles, for agricultural purposes," be introduced.
 The Attorney-General  admitted, that much inconvenience might arise, if the
 369
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  said, he would not propose the postponement of the Bill until that day six months, nor did he think that the Bill would only benefit pettifogging attorneys, though he admitted that it might have the effect of increasing the county rates; but that was not his objection to it. He objected to it because he thought, except in capital offences, it would be an injury, and not a benefit to the prisoner, notwithstanding all that had been urged to the contrary. When he recollected that more than one-half of our prisoners for trial were mere children, and that there were very few capital cases, he could not see what advantage would arise from having four speeches on every trial. He had just come from a Quarter Sessions, at which one hundred prisoners were tried, two-thirds of them being under age, some under twelve, and others nine years old. He was perfectly certain that the Bill would be impracticable, if the Judge had to sift the chaff from the corn, and unmystify the speeches of the Counsel, by directing the Jury to the common sound sense of each case. Counsel would do their best to get an acquittal without reference to truth or justice, and no Judge in the country possessed physical and mental power equal to the task. Make the Bill to apply to capital cases only, and increase the number of Local Courts; and he thought it might be beneficial, but not else. He, therefore, protested against the Bill in its present shape; because it would be productive of serious injury to prisoners, and those hon. Gentlemen who supported it would be the first to make the discovery.
 Sir Robert Peel  did not see why the same Councillor should not, if he were an active man, be on two Committees. The number of the Members of the Committees formed from the Town Councils ought to be limited to three or five; or it would be found that the execution of the public business would be greatly impeded. He was afraid that in all large bodies that was the case. He was sure that it was the case with Cabinet Councils, and that a Cabinet Council of nine Members did business more effectually than one of thirteen. In all Commissions, he was persuaded that two Commissioners would be a better number than seven; for in the latter case, the individual Members would feel much less responsibility than in the former. In all bodies, indeed, the smaller the number of Members, provided they were enough to do the business, the better would that business be done. In his opinion, thirty would be a much better number of the Council for Bath than forty-eight.
 Sir Robert Peel  was persuaded, that if the number of the Members of the Common Council of the city of London were doubled,
 371
 Viscount Howick  said, it was quite impossible that two Inquiries, one instituted by a Committee of that House, and the other by a Commission, could go on at the same time. The authority of the Commission would immediately be superseded by the higher authority of that House, and they would be obliged to leave their Inquiries, which were at the present moment vigorously proceeding, and were likely to lead to beneficial results, in an incomplete state. The hon. Member for Bridport had spoken of the existence of delinquency in the Post-office. That was undoubtedly a very serious accusation, and would the Officers of that establishment be allowed a fair opportunity of vindicating themselves, if two distinct bodies were sitting indifferent places inquiring into their conduct at the same time? The hon. Member for Middlesex had complained that very little progress had been made by the Government with regard to the Amendment of the Post-office Establishment during the last four years. Now the fact was, that notwithstanding the changes of Administration which had lately taken place, and which had necessarily impeded in some degree the inquiries of the Commissioners, a Report had been presented respecting the mail-coach contracts, and a Bill was before the House relative to the communications with foreign countries. Under these circumstances, he thought that the House might be convinced that the Inquiries of the Commission would be vigorously pursued. The individual at the head of that Commission was Lord Duncannon, and he certainly was not a person likely to be foiled in an endeavour to ascertain the real state of the Post-office by any stubbornness on the part of the Officers of that establishment. If, however, it should be found that the Commission did not produce the desired results, he would undoubtedly next Session be ready to support a Motion for the appointment of a Committee. At the present moment he trusted that the hon. Member for Greenock, who deserved the thanks of the House and the Government for having taken the pains to obtain
 395
 Lord Sandon  declared that the present number of the Members of the Corporation of Liverpool—namely, forty, was quite adequate to manage the affairs of the town. Business, practically speaking, was always done better by small bodies than by large.
 Mr. Francis Baring  rose to order. He confessed he was rather taken by surprise by the course which had been pursued by the hon. Member. There was no notice on the Orders of the Day on the subject of his Motion; and his right hon. Friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was altogether unaware that such a discussion as the present would come on this evening.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought that the speech of the hon. Mover had invited the discussion into which his hon. Friend behind him had entered; at the same time he fully acknowledged the right of inquiry. The House had every right to inquire how the money was to be applied, and what were the prospects as well of repayment as of the ultimate completion of the undertaking; and he, therefore, should not offer the slightest objection to the production of those documents for which the hon. Member for Berkshire moved; but he must be allowed to observe, that he thought the speech which the House had that night heard had much better been deferred until the requisition contained in the Motion was complied with. It would have been, in his opinion, much better to have put the House in possession of the documents first, and to have made the speech afterwards. Consenting to the Motion as he did without hesitation, he trusted he might be allowed to suggest, that its being moved as an Amendment to the question of going into a Committee of Supply was rather inconvenient; he trusted, therefore, that the hon. mover would consent to withdraw it for the present, with the understanding that, like all Motions made by consent, it might be brought on just before the rising of the house, when the hon. Gentleman would be allowed to make the Motion without opposition, or it would be made for him. He wished merely to add, that the grant to which the Motion referred was not made since he had received the appointment of Chancellor of the Exchequer, but in the time of his noble Friend Lord Spencer. He felt, however, that the grant was in every respect defensible; it was surely expedient not to leave so great a public undertaking incomplete; it would in his opinion, be a kind of national reproach if it were not finished; still he was ready to admit that those considerations did not of themselves form sufficient grounds, and therefore reports had been made respecting the previous expenditure as well as the probable amount of the future cost.
 411
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : I agree with the right hon. Baronet.
 Mr. Andrew Johnstone  said the inquiry to which the hon. Member for Middlesex alluded was only on one part of the subject, namely, Church accommodation; the question of Church-patronage stood quite by itself. Besides, the hon. Member must be aware that a Committee of that House had inquired into the subject; their long Report was submitted last Summer, and the House certainly required no further information now. He (Mr. A. Johnstone) did therefore submit, that they could not at present require information, otherwise he assured the hon. Member he would be most happy to attend to his suggestion. He would then very briefly state those great evils which had pressed on the Church of Scotland from Lay-patronage, and had led him (Mr. A. Johnstone) and many others in Scotland, to come forward and ask for a remedy. It was that which he would press on his Motion. The evils had been most extensive, and had affected the Church in every one of her departments; they had affected the clergy, the candidates for the Ministry, and done infinite injury to the Church in general. He called the attention of the House to the petitions which laid on the Table in reference to the proposed grant to that Church. There were, indeed, 150,000 petitioners for, but there were also 120,000 against, the grant.
 413 414
 The Lord Advocate  said, that the hon. Member for St. Andrew's seemed to think the measure which he proposed so expedient and necessary, that he could not even allow the House to go into a Committee of Supply, without first determining on the merits of a Bill for abolishing Lay-patronage in Scotland. So far, however, was he from looking at it as an urgent measure, that he thought it would be much better not to agitate it in the present Session. That, indeed, seemed to be a very general opinion; for among the many Members for Scotland who were present, the hon. Member for St. Andrew's could not find one to second his proposition; and it was seconded by a Gentleman from a part of the country in which, he understood, Lay-patronage was by no means regarded with an unfavourable eye. He
 415
 Mr. Andrew Johnstone  rose to bring forward, as an Amendment, the subject of which he had so long given notice, namely, Lay-patronage in Scotland. In doing so, he would endeavour to occupy as little of the time of the House as possible, by merely endeavouring to give a very brief and practical exposition of the present situation of the question, and then calling upon the House to grant the people of Scotland an indication of the manner in which the House was disposed to treat the subject. He was aware that the Scotch questions in general were not received with much cordiality by the House; but he thought he was peculiarly entitled to ask their attention, seeing how seldom such questions had been obtruded on them during the present Session.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that before his hon. Friend brought forward the miscellaneous estimates, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) would, with the leave of the Committee communicate to them the contents of a letter which he had received from his noble Friend who was at the head of the Woods and Forests. He was anxious to take the earliest opportunity of doing so, because the letter in question related to the Speaker of the House of Commons. Lord Duncannon had written to him (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) by command of his Majesty, on the best means of providing, until the rebuilding of the Houses of Parliament, a convenient and suitable residence for the Speaker. The letter was to the following effect:— "Some difficulty having arisen on the subject, his Majesty has been graciously pleased to place at the disposal of the House of Commons Marlborough House; and I am commanded by the King to cause it to be immediately repaired, in order that it may be occupied by the Speaker until the new Houses of Parliament, and a fit and proper residence for that Officer shall be completed. I request that you will take the earliest opportunity of making this communication to the House of Commons." He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) trusted that this communication would be received in the spirit in which it had been made. It tended to prove that no effort on the part of his Majesty would be wanting to accommodate the House of Commons, or
 418
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would endeavour to answer the question of the noble Lord—The first question was, how the arrangement made by the noble Lord between the Officer of Woods and Forests and Lord Warwick had been got rid of? He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) believed that it was terminated by the act of Lord Warwick himself, who, on his return to England, considered the contract to be such as to give him the power to put an end to it, and he accordingly had given notice of his intention to do so. With respect to the second question, the House would bear in mind that the possession of Marlborough House, during the existence of the lease, belonged to the King of Belgium. That lease would expire in July, 1836 [An  hon. Member
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  felt grateful for his Majesty's kind proposal, but, at the same time, the House ought to take the situation of the Speaker into consideration and ought not to kill him with kindness. Another question was, as to the furniture: Was the Speaker to furnish so large a house, merely for a temporary residence of two or three years?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  agreed that this was not the time to discuss the question; but he had done no more than obey the commands he had received, by making the communication to the House. Though Gentlemen had expressed a difference of opinion with respect to the appropriation of Marlborough House to the use of the Speaker, yet he conceived that there could be no difference of opinion as to the feeling which had dictated the offer made by his Majesty, or as to the gratitude that was due from the House for so generous an act. In answer to the hon. Member for Worcester, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) begged to say, that it was not the Government, but Lord Warwick, who had departed from the arrangement. That noble Lord had given notice to terminate the lease, and thus it became necessary to provide the Speaker with some other place of residence. If Marlborough House should be considered above the scale fitted for the residence of the Speaker of the House of Commons, it was not likely, under the contingency, that the Crown could obtain a tenant for it in the ordinary market; therefore it must remain unoccupied. Undoubtedly the convenience of the Speaker ought to be considered; and although that right hon. Gentleman was not the man to urge such an argument on the House yet his convenience would be taken into consideration by the House, and he would not be pressed to occupy a palace that he himself disliked. Having made the communication it would perhaps be better that the conversation should drop, and that before they adopted any resolution they should have in their possession all the details connected with the subject.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  appealed to the House whether the clerks ought to be inconvenienced by being at once deprived of their salaries. The argument of the hon. Gentleman was chiefly directed against the old law, but it should be recollected that that had been ameliorated by the exertions of those at present on the Ministerial Benches when they were embodied in the ranks of the Opposition.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had frequently visited the establishment in question, and he agreed with the hon. Member who spoke last as to its being well managed. With respect to the expenses of it, they
 423
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that this Commission originated rather with the House of Commons than with the Government. It was felt that there was a necessity of reducing the written and unwritten laws into one code. He was confident that more proper persons could not be intrusted with the task than those to whom it had been confided by the Government of Earl Grey.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the great object of the Commission was, not to collect the whole of the Statutes, but to reduce them into one, as the hon. Member might see by the first page of their Report, in which they stated their objects to be—first, that of digesting all the Criminal-laws into one code; secondly, condensing into one Statute all the provisions of the common and unwritten law which related to one subject
 Mr. Blackburne  thought that it was not to be expected that professional gentlemen who were engaged on this business should give up the whole of their time exclusively for the remuneration which they received. An hon. and learned Gentleman had complained that these gentlemen were men of very extensive practice; if so, so much the better were they calculated for the duty reposed in them.
 Mr. Law Hodges  said, he did not rise to oppose the grant, but having, when this Bill was before the House, declared his hostility to it, he could only say that his opinions had undergone no change whatever. He hoped, however, that the experiment might turn out well.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  observed, that the question was not whether the poor were less contented or not, nor was it necessary that they should enter into the merits of the measure; but the question simply was, whether the Committee should agree to the grant proposed. Now, whatever might be said to be the merits of the Commissioners, he believed them to be great; but it was impossible that their efforts could be attended with beneficial effects, if hon. Members of that House took every opportunity of lowering the Bill in the opinion of the public, by entering into a discussion upon it. It was a Bill which had been introduced under the sanction of the Legislature, and deserved and must have a considerable trial before an opinion could be fairly formed of its value.
 Colonel Sibthorpe  opposed the Motion. The Bill was a bud Bill, and the hour was late. He proposed it be read a second time upon Thursday next. He had strong objections to urge to the Qualification Clause.
 Mr. Ridley Colburn  had the same strong objections to the Qualification Clause as others, but would not object to the second reading of the Bill.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  agreed in the principle, and recommended the proceeding with the Bill.
 Mr. Cresset Pelham  would refer simply to the vote then under discussion. With reference to the grant to these Commissioners, he thought they received a great deal for doing very little more than what others had done without being put into office, or without being paid.
 Mr. Fox Maule  begged to state, that no one was discharged from the Penitentiary without having undergone a previous trial as to his or her good conduct. To show that the system was working well, he must inform the House that, in 1833, there were 83 males and 23 females discharged; in 1834 there were 118 males and a number of females in a similarly increased proportion discharged. The silent system had been lately adopted, and it was intended to carry it into more general effect, as good results had been derived from it.
 Mr. Fox Maule  entirely concurred with the hon. Member for St. Andrew's in the opinion which he had expressed on the subject of Lay-patronage in Scotland. He entirely concurred with that hon. Gentleman that the sooner Lay-patronage was abolished in Scotland the better. But on the present occasion he felt it his duty to oppose the hon. Gentleman's Amendment, on the ground that it stopped the House from going into a Committee of Supply. His motives might be misconstrued; and it might go down to Scotland that he had departed from the declarations which he had made on the subject. He cared not. He had given his public and honest reasons for his vote; and he should be as ready to state them elsewhere as he had shown himself to be in that House. Whenever the hon. Member for St. Andrew's might think proper to enter his notice regularly on the book, instead of bringing it forward as an amendment to a Motion for going into a Committee of Supply, he should have his warmest and most cordial support; but on the present occasion he could not support his proposition.
 Lord Granville Somerset  informed the House that the present residence of the Speaker was taken by the late Government from certain agents of Lord Warwick. His Lordship, on returning from abroad, was discontented with the terms, and denied that the agents were authorised to let the house. But the Government considered on the one hand that the agents were authorised, and therefore the agreement was binding; and, on the other, that if the agents had assumed an authority with which they were not fully invested the fault was with them, and not with the Government. This determination was arrived at by the Go-
 421
 Lord Granville Somerset  wished to put two questions to the right hon. Gentleman. The first was, in what manner the arrangement which, when he (Lord Granville Somerset) was at the head of the Woods and Forests, he had made with Lord Warwick for a House for two years had been disposed of? The second question was (and he believed the right hon. Gentleman would bear him out in the fact) that, as his Majesty, two or three years ago, in pursuance of an Act of Parliament which authorized him to do so, executed a deed, by which Marlborough House was settled on her Majesty in the event of the King's death, how could his Majesty dispose of it in the meanwhile?
 Lord Granville Somerset  could not admit that the Bill had operated so successfully as had been represented; but, as other opportunities would be afforded for considering its merits, he would not say one word more on that point. His hon. Friend had severely reprehended those hon. Members who had expressed their opinion that the measure was not working well. Now he (Lord G. Somerset) could bring forward many instances where the practical working of the Bill was by no means such as it had been attempted to be shown to be.
 Lord John Russell  would not follow the example of the hon. Gentleman by entering into the details of the Poor Law Amendment Bill; but he would state that the Commissioners would shortly make a Report as to the manner in which they had enforced the law, and his opinion was, that the tenor of that Report would surpass the expectations of the warmest advocates of the Bill. But with reference to the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Middlesex, as to the amount of remuneration to the Commissioners, he must say that a less sum than that proposed could not be given to these Gentlemen. When the Question was first brought before Parliament Lord Althorp named a less sum; but the first object of the Government was to select those persons who were best calculated for the trust, and he considered it essentially necessary that those persons only should be employed
 429
 Lord John Russell  agreed with the noble Lord, the Member for Liverpool, that the Penitentiary system was one that ought not to be lightly abandoned. With regard to establishments of this sort they must be necessarily expensive, but he thought that some reduction might be made in the salaries of the officers. With respect to diminishing the diet of the prisoners, or rendering its quality inferior, no saving would arise, as the consequence would be increased disease. The system had been tried in various prisons, and it appeared that the expenses consequent upon disease arising from poor diet were greater than if a more generous nourishment were made use of.
 Lord John Russell  was not thoroughly conversant with the subject, but he agreed that no reasons now existed for continuing the Alien Act. He was one of those who succeeded in obtaining a cessation of the old system, and the substitution of the present law. The present regulations were not, he believed, effectual; nothing was gained from their continuance, and he certainly thought it was fit matter of consideration whether any good purpose whatever was answered by keeping up the office.
 Mr. Hawes  begged permission to interrupt the right hon. Baronet, and to appeal to the hon. Member for Berkshire himself as to the description he gave of the act under which it was alleged that the sum in question had been granted.
 Mr. Hawes  said no money was advanced under that Act.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that as one of the Directors of that Company which had engaged in the undertaking with reference to which the speech of the hon. Member for Berkshire had just been made, he felt himself called upon to trouble the House with one or two observations, for the purpose of giving a direct answer to the extraordinary statement which had just been addressed to them, in the course of which allusion had been made to the question put a few days ago to the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Not having been in the House on that occasion, it was out of his power then to have said anything in the way of reply, but, had he been present, he certainly should have said that which he now felt bound to state—namely, that the hon. Member for Berkshire might, if he wished, have obtained the most full and accurate information from the books and papers of the Company, which were all open to him. He was told that every one of the books, that every document in the possession of the Company, was accessible, and that there was no information he could desire relating to their affairs that would not be cheerfully given. In reply to that offer they had not received the least communication from the hon. Member, and the only step which he thought proper to take in consequence of it, was to bring forward the present Motion, in a speech so full of details, or rather with the appearance of so much detail. He (Mr. Hawes) of course could not desire to address himself to that question otherwise than with the most perfect courtesy towards the hon. Member for Berkshire, but he felt bound by a sense of duty to affirm that the information upon which the speech of that hon. Member was made had not the slightest foundation. First, he thought it right to bring the matter forward on the ground of its being a breach of privilege, but having found it expedient not to rest entirely upon that ground, he complained of it as authorised by a Bill which had passed
 408 l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Charles Barclay  said, that the House could not fail feeling obliged for his Majesty's offer, but it was obvious that a great increase of expense must accrue to the Speaker by residing in a House so unnecessarily large. It was also a very inconvenient situation for the residence of the Speaker.
 Mr. Cumming Bruce : I shall vote against the Motion of my hon. Friend the Member for St. Andrew's, on the ground stated by the learned Lord Advocate, namely, that the General Assembly has lately made an alteration in the laws of the Church. I think it extremely improper to interfere in the progress of those mea-
 417
 Mr. Edward Buller  said, that the gaols in Staffordshire averaged about 500 prisoners, and that the annual expense of the medical attendant was only 100 l.
 Mr. Robinson  apprehended that this was not the proper time to discuss the question; but he wished to observe that if the King of Belgium repaired Marlborough House, the public would receive so much the less out of the annuity which his Belgian Majesty had remitted to this nation. He wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether the departure from the
 420
 Mr. Robinson  said, that as one of those who had objected to this Bill, he wished it to be understood that he had never opposed it as a measure wholly. But he called upon the House not to believe, too hastily, that a sufficient time had been allowed to enable them to see how the Bill had operated. It had been put into action under peculiarly favourable circumstances—there had been a vast deal of employment in the country in the manufacturing districts during the last year, and food had been very cheap, therefore, the Poor-law Bill had not hitherto been worked under any trying circumstances of the country. Let the House look to what might occur at a time of scarcity of employ, and dearness of provisions. Again hon. Gentlemen must not attribute all the savings which had been made in various parishes solely to the operation of the Poor Law Bill. With reference to the Bastardy Clause, that, he was convinced, must be revised at some time or other.
 Mr. George F. Young  begged to call the attention of the Committee to the fact, that what had been said by those hon. Members who opposed the Bill was provoked by the observations of the supporters of it, because they had gone much farther than was necessary: therefore those who had expressed their dissent ought not to be taunted with an attempt to influence the public mind. For his own part, he would only say that he had never ceased to proclaim himself, throughout all the proceedings on that Bill, as one of its opponents; and he, as well as the hon. Member for Worcester (Mr. Robinson) entertained great doubts as to the practical operation of the measure, in other less fortunate circumstances, than those in which it had commenced.
 Mr. Warburton  said, there was no reason for continuing the office, the regulations of which were a source of needless vexation to respectable foreigners, who wished not to evade the laws of the country. He would undertake to prove this if a Committee were appointed, and till the conclusion of the inquiry the payment of the salaries of the clerks might, he thought, be suspended.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that after what had fallen from the noble Lord, (Lord John Russell) he was willing to leave the matter in his hands.
 Mr. Stewart Mackenzie  regretted that
 416
 Dr. Bowring  objected to the vote, on account of the great expense of the prisoners. There were 600 of them, and the expense of keeping each was 10 s. s. d.
 Dr. Bowring  observed, that the United States had long since abolished the system of passports, and from that step had never yet suffered anything. He hoped that England would first set the same example among the great European nations.
 Mr. Hardy  observed that as the objection to the proposition of his hon. Friend seemed, upon the whole, to be directed not so much against the principle of that proposition as against the form in which it had been brought forward, he advised his hon. Friend to withdraw his Amendment and submit the subject to the House again as a substantive proposition.
 Mr. Kearsley : I beg, Sir, to say a few words. I always said, and I thought that the hon. Member for Middlesex was a very salutary check upon the expenses; but, Sir, after carrying the vote that has been just now agreed to, I put it to you, Sir—and I say it, Sir—that the hon. Member's conduct is that of perfect humbug—[ loud laughter and cheers. laughter and cheers.
 Mr. Kearsley : And I beg to tell the hon. Member for Middlesex, that no one can interfere with me, if I choose to make as many observations as I like. And, Sir, if there is an infirmity in my sight, and I cannot see, I am not to be ridiculed; and, Sir, if my sight is not so good, perhaps his head is not so cool. I do not wish to make personal observations, but I will not be put down by the hon. Member for Middlesex, whether he stands by the side of his right hand, or any body else. We are all, Sir, accountable—[ "Hear!" and loud laughter. 432
 Mr. Kearsley : I tell the hon. Member for Middlesex he is out of his reckoning.
 Mr. Roebuck  had before stated with reference to this Question that it would be much more advisable to employ only one competent person who should devote his
 426 dicta
 Mr. Walter  said, it was no fault of his that the notice he had given on this subject did not appear on the Orders of the Day. He inquired of the Clerk, several days ago, why it had not been repeated; and was told, that it should appear in time for the Committee of Supply. He had also been informed this morning by a gentleman connected (as we understood) with the Government whose name he would not mention, that he would have an opportunity this evening of bringing forward his Motion. Under these circumstances he should persevere. The next application to the Treasury for aid was in March 1831. The Company stated, that they had completed 600 feet of the tunnel, leaving only 700 yet to be constructed; that they had then, expended 182,000 l. 402 l. l. l. 403 l. 404 l. l. l. Hansard's Parliamentary Debates: 405 l. l. l. l. l. l. * Hansard, (third series) vol. xvi, p. 133. 406 407 l.
 Mr. Walter  said, that the subject to which he would now beg leave to call the attention of the House, and that of the Speaker particularly, involved the most essential privilege of that House. It might perhaps be recollected, that he mentioned some time ago, the rumour, that an advance of money to a certain Company, called the Thames Tunnel Company, had been made by the Government. The right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) then suspended his further proceeding, by promising to show him any document existing in his department that might explain the matter. The right hon. Gentleman had obligingly fulfilled his engagement; and the result had been, that the suspicions which he (Mr. Walter) originally entertained had been fully verified, and that money had been obtained under the authority of the House, but absolutely without its knowledge. His first impression was, to ask for the appointment of a Select Committee to investigate the affair; but finding that this mode of proceeding would certainly be opposed—why, he could not tell, though it added to his surprise—he now felt it his duty to bring the subject before the House; and he trusted he might not improperly do so on a Motion for going into a Committee of Supply. He would briefly read a statement of this transaction, which had ended in a Bill empowering the Treasury to lend to this Company the sum of 270,000 l. 401 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s.,
 Mr. Walter  said, he had the act in his pocket. It was the Thames Tunnel Act, and had received the Royal Assent on the 28th of August, 1833.
 Mr. Walter  said, the Commissioners appointed for the loan of Exchequer-bills on security of public works had twice refused any money to the Thames Tunnel Company—first in September, 1831, and next in September, 1833. The sum now granted, it appeared, had been obtained under the authority of an act of Parliament, of which he would venture to say that ninety-nine Members out of every hundred had no knowledge whatever. As to the offer that had been made to him, respecting an opportunity of inspecting books, papers, &c, he certainly had not availed himself of that offer by the hon. Member for Lambeth, for he preferred going to the fountain head, and he had taken all the pains in his power to verify the statements he had made, by reference to the most authentic sources of information; he, therefore, felt confident that they could not successfully be impugned; but it appeared to him best, after what had been said by the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to adopt that right hon. Gentleman's suggestion. He would, therefore, withdraw the Motion for the present, as its object would be attained at a more advanced hour of the evening.—Motion postponed.
 Mr. Hume  could not help expressing his regret at what had fallen from his hon. Friend the Member for Marylebone, because his statement was one inconsistent with fact. Again it was extremely unfair, at a moment when the Government and these Commissioners were labouring to bring the poorest classes of the community into the state in which they ought to be, that hon. Gentlemen should give utterance to assertions which could only be productive of great evil out of doors. He (Mr. Hume) was not aware that this subject would have come on that night, or he should have been prepared to prove to the House that of which he was perfectly satisfied—namely, that this measure had been successful, where fairly tried, beyond his most sanguine expectations. If there had ever been a question nearer his heart than that of Reform, it was to bring the great mass of the people from the degraded condition into which they had fallen. But would his hon. Friend state what had been done in London in consequence of the adoption of the principle contained in this Bill? There had been a great reduction even in that hon. Gentleman's own parish, though they had pertinaciously opposed the law in the first instance. Yet, acting upon the principles of the Poor-law Bill, the result had been highly beneficial and had operated much to the credit of the Gentlemen by whom it was carried into effect. He should be very sorry indeed in any way to strengthen, and much less to give any confirmation to, the opinion that this measure was intended to oppress the poor man. He believed that if ever there was a measure calculated to bring men to their proper condition or state, aye, and to raise their wages—and to make a man depend upon his own industry, instead of the eleemosynary assistance afforded by the old Poor-law system, it was this same Bill. The expenditure incurred was large, but in carrying into effect so important a plan he would ask what was the charge if the object desired were accomplished? It was clear it would be impossible to render the plan effective with inadequate means. He questioned whether in the parishes of St. George and Marylebone alone the saving did not
 428 l.
 Mr. Hume  moved that the Election Qualification Expenses' Bill should be read a second time.
 Mr. Hume : I did not accuse the hon. Member of having bad sight, but of seeing too much.
 Mr. Hume : I am afraid the hon. Member's optics are a little out of order, and that he sees double. I can only tell the hon. Member, that when I see the allowance for Secret Service money reduced to 36.000 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  hoped that the time would arrive when they would be able to do away with Secret Service money, as they were now able to carry on a Government without patronage. He should enter his protest against the vote, but should not divide the House upon it. Vote agreed to.
 Mr. Hume  remarked, that though this was a large vote, it was the lowest that had been taken for the last ten years. The House would be surprised to hear, and of which they would be put in possession within forty-eight hours, that nearly a million sterling had within the last ten years been expended in the stationery and printing of the public department. This was the first attempt made by Government to reduce this expense, and for that they were entitled to great credit. He could
 431 l.
 Mr. Hume  hoped the hon. Member would excuse his interruption, but he put it to his own good sense, whether, as the inquiry into the whole subject had not terminated, the present was the time for bringing forward such a question, which could lead to no practical result.
 Mr. Hume  said, that this office was originally established against the good old custom of England. Ft should now be put an end to; there never was a fitter time, as the country was as peaceful and as quiet as its best friend could desire.
 Mr. Hume  said, that any offer for the public convenience that would be attended with economy, would be most acceptable, but he thought the present proposition was not an economical one. Having lately reduced the Speaker's salary, the House ought not to impose on him a more expensive residence than what former Speakers had been accustomed to occupy. If Lord Warwick wished to have possession of his House, let him have it; and Parliament would provide another for the Speaker. He would therefore submit to the Chancellor of the Exchequer that a vote of thanks should be given to his Majesty, for his kind intention, but that under the arrangements which the House thought it proper to make for, and the views they entertained respect their Speaker, they would rather take upon themselves to provide a residence for him. When he proposed that Marlborough House should be given up for the use of Parliament, he was told that it could not be had, because it was settled upon her Majesty. Let it remain, then, with her Majesty. No doubt the Speaker would consider it better to live in a smaller House, and be able to enjoy the comforts of life, than to be placed in a palace and starved. The repairs of Marlborough House would cost 5,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  complained of the great expense of the medical department. There were two surgeons, one of whom received a salary of 400 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  trusted, that one of the noble Lord's Friends would immediately bring in a Bill upon the subject. When so important a principle was recognised, he should not object to pay the pensions of the clerks.
 Mr. Hume  asked if there was a prospect that this Commission would bring its labours to a close?
 Mr. Pease  had the most sanguine expectation that this measure would answer well, and that though great disgust had been evinced at it at first, yet that within six months he was satisfied that the Bill
 427
 The Attorney-General  said, that the commissioners had presented one Report,
 425
 Mr. Jervis  said, the Commissioners had been already two years employed on this business, and it appeared that there was another Report to be yet brought forward. There were five men employed on the Commission, each having a salary of 800 l. l.
 Mr. Jervis  said, the object was not to make a code of laws, but to collect the Statutes already made, and class them according to the subject they related to.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, there were many cases in which advances of money might be made with a view to an ultimate effect of public importance, and he did not say but there might frequently be presented to the executive Government objects likely to produce great public benefits; but in such cases there could not be a doubt that the opinion of Parliament ought to be taken, and the nature and the value of the undertaking, as well as the probabilities of repayment, should be submitted to the House. It was certainly his opinion, that when money was required for public purposes it would be dangerous to admit the practice of having it granted by orders from the Exchequer without giving Parliament any opportunity to judge of the prospects of repayment.
 Sir Robert Peel  observed, that the hon. Member on the other side appeared to attach much more importance to the circumstance of the hon. Member for Berkshire not having gone to the office of the Company to inspect their books and papers than a matter of that sort appeared to deserve; it was surely no reflection on him that he had not done so, and it was perfectly natural that, as a Member of that House, he should now wish upon public grounds to obtain copies of public documents for the purpose of ascertaining the amount of money obtained, the terms upon which the advance was made, and the prospect which remained to the public of repayment, by the tolls or otherwise. As a Member of that House he had a right to call for that information, and to inquire the Parliamentary grounds of the whole proceeding. The hon. Member for Lambeth had attempted to answer the arguments on the subject of no engineers having been consulted in reference to the present grant, by saying that such a step had been rendered perfectly needless by reason of one-half of the work having been already completed, and that their knowledge of what that cost must necessarily enable them to know the probable cost of the remaining portion of the undertaking. Now, it was too much to assume that the cost of one portion of the work would not be greater than that of the other; surely such a mode of reasoning could not be expected to produce conviction in the minds of any hon. Member, and it was quite fitting that due inquiry should be made before a further advance of public money took place. Then, had not the House a right to obtain
 410
 Sir Robert Peel  did not understand the hon. Gentleman opposite (the Member for Berkshire) as saying that any specific Bill had passed for the purpose of granting the sum mentioned to the Thames Tunnel Company.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  deeply regretted that the country had not received any thing in the shape of an adequate compensation for this vote. The Measure under which this Commission was in operation had justified all his predictions. In the country the attempt to introduce it had almost all failed, and it had caused the greatest excitement. Amongst the agricultural population of Sussex it had acted like a fire band — it had distracted the labourers from their work —it had alienated them from all comfort, and the peasantry feared that they were to be reduced to a state much worse than that of the emancipated negro. He was quite sure that the Legislature had no such intention when they passed the Bill, but such were its effects, and the peasantry must be disabused of the impression which had seized their minds as to the intention of the measure. He must repeat that the Commission had been an unnecessary expense, for which the country would never receive any adequate return.
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  had one other observation to make with respect to the expenses of medical attendance. The hon. Member for Middlesex had stated it to be 700 l. l.
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  was happy to find the hon. Member for Middlesex bearing testimony to the good management of the Penitentiary. The Committee, which sat two years ago on capital punishments, bore testimony to the good caused by this establishment. He confessed that it was an expensive establishment, but it was a very serious question to get rid of it altogether. He was of opinion that no additional prisoners should be sent to the hulks, but an end ought not to be put to the Penitentiary, which now contained 660 prisoners, and that it should not be done especially at this time, when they were about to legislate on the subject of abolishing capital punishments. He was an advocate for the Penitentiary system, and a great number of persons were sent out of the Penitentiary much better on account of the discipline they had undergone in it, and they left it with thanks and gratitude to the officers of the establishment, and especially for the religious benefits they had received while in it. When the expenses of the prison were mentioned, it should be borne in mind that it was never full. It was capable of holding 1,000 persons—only 660 were in it, and the officers, the governor, chaplain, and surgeons, were kept up at the same expense as they would cost if the prison was actually full. It was not fair to calculate what was the expense of each prisoner by dividing the gross expenses by the number of prisoners now in the establishment. He could see no objection to sending military prisoners to the Penitentiary.
 Mr. Clay  did not think the expense, considering the great services performed, too much. All the information was now concentrated in one focus, as to the state of the poor over the whole kingdom: it applied to every parish. Now, if the cost of the Commission were for one year 30,000 l.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  moved that the Bill, which was too important to be smuggled through the House after one o'clock, should be read a second time this day six months. He entertained strong objections to it, which he wished to be discussed in a fuller House.
 Viscount Sandon  hoped that the observations that had been made would remove the large expense for medical attendance at the Penitentiary, whether it was 400 l. l. 424
 Viscount Sandon  had always voted against the Alien Act, and hoped that England might soon be able to boast, as of old, that her doors were always open to
 422
 Mr. O'Connell  presented a Petition from A. C. O'Dwyer, Esq., late Member for the town of Drogheda, complaining of the present state of the Election Law, under which his election for the town of Drogheda had recently been declared void. The petitioner, after setting forth the grounds upon which he thought a general legislative measure necessary, earnestly prayed the House not to allow the present Session to pass away without the adoption of some measure calculated to prevent the recurrence of those instances of injustice, of one of which he conceived that he had now a right to complain. The hon. and learned Gentleman expressed his full concurrence with the petitioner, that he had much reason to complain, and he was sure of this, at least, that no lawyer in Ireland would consider that the qualification of Mr. O'Dwyer, against which the Committee had decided, was otherwise than good and sufficient. The point upon which the Committee decided against the election of the petitioner was this—could a person holding a lease for three lives, with a clause of perpetual renewal, grant a qualification to a fourth person for his life? Now the Committee, contrary to the opinion of some lawyers who were members of it, and clearly against the opinion of what the petitioner was pleased to call some of the highest legal opinions in Ireland, decided that the grant to Mr. O'Dwyer did not constitute a sufficient estate to form the qualification for the representative of a borough in that House. Let it be recollected that the Act did not require a strictly legal estate, but expressly declared that an estate in equity was equally good; and Lord Redesdale had decided that a lessee holding such a lease was dispunishable of waste; in fact, he treated him, and so had he always been treated in Ireland, as the inheritor. The petitioner, therefore, conceived that the decision of the Committee was illegal;
 450
 Mr. O'Connell :—The right hon. Member could not have understood what he said, or else he could not have made those objections. If the right hon. Member did understand what he (Mr. O'Connell) had said, his objections would lead to the most monstrous mischief. This petition prayed for legislative relief prospectively, and had no connection whatever with the recent election. It did not impeach, in the slightest degree, the seat of the present hon. Member for Drogheda, nor did it impeach the integrity of the Committee. On the contrary, it set up a point of law, and complained that the Committee had decided on that point, taking it for granted that the Committee had decided rightly. But the petitioner further prayed legislative relief from this
 451
 Colonel Wood  said, that as the only Member of the Committee who happened to be in the House, he thought it incumbent on him to say a few words. He would not, however, enter at all on the abstract merits of the case, as it was not his wish to cause any extended discussion; but he would say, that never did a Committee sit more fully impressed with a sense of the extreme difficulty of the case brought before them, and who were more anxious to do justice to it to the full extent of the oath which they had taken. The question which the Committee had had to decide was this, whether a person having a lease for the lives of two other persons, could grant to a third person an estate for his life, such as would constitute the qualification required by the Act. Had this been an English case, there would not have been a moment's doubt about it in the Committee; but there had been an Irish Act passed, giving teases held in perpetuity the character of a freehold; and the Committee had decided that, in the present case, although the qualification did approach in its nature to a freehold, it was not exactly of that kind which the Act required.
 Mr. Randall Plunkett  begged to give the most unqualified contradiction to the assertion of the hon. Member for Meath, that he had exerted the influence of force in the late Meath election, or that he had attempted on that occasion to overpower the exercise of the franchise by violence and intimidation. He also begged to state, that he need never have expended the money, and time, and trouble he had, to obtain a seat for that county, if he chose to have recourse to equal violence with that manifested by the hon. Member's supporters. There was another allegation of the hon. Member to which he was happy to have it in his power to give a distinct and unqualified denial also; it was that which charged a Protestant clergyman with heading an armed mob, himself armed with pistols. No such thing ever occurred, or could occur, among the respectable
 455
 Mr. Charles Butter  begged to remind the House, that he had a Motion for the alteration of Election Committees on the paper of the House; and he hoped that he should have the advantage of their votes as an additional proof of the indignation which they manifested in their speeches.
 Mr. O'Connell  should not have spoken in the debate, but that the hon. Member for Sligo had introduced the irrelevant topic of intimidation into his observations on the subject of it. What was the fact? Sixteen or seventeen petitions had been forwarded from Ireland, in all of which intimidation had been stated; but in all of them not a single case had been proved, and in a majority of them no evidence had been gone into to support it, though the question was open to the petitioners to do so. It was too bad; but that was the way in which the people of Ireland were always calumniated. The hon. Member for Sligo had said, that he was no lawyer, which was the fact. But the hon. Member had not stated the fact because of his ignorance of law, when he said that qualifications were not liable to the
 457
 Mr. Francis Baring  moved, "That a sum not exceeding 7,417 l. s. d.
 Mr. Baring  was not prepared to inform the hon. Member as to the expenses further than was set forth in the estimate, all the items of which he knew to be necessary.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  hoped his hon. Friend would not press his Motion to a division, as great inconvenience would be experienced by delaying or circumscribing the grant.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the offer had been made to the Canadian government to give the undertaking up to it, even at the loss of the money which had been expended, but the Canadian government had refused to take it. He thought it would have been better if Parliament had never sanctioned such an expenditure, but as the works had gone so far it would be bad economy to leave them unfinished. With respect to the tolls, he believed that when the canals were finished they would be productive.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer , in reply to the question put to him by his hon. Friend, assured him he would introduce the Bill for the improvement of the Shannon with as little delay as possible; at all events, he would pledge himself to carry it through this Session.
 Mr. O'Connell : Did I understand the hon. Gentleman to say, that Protestan children were compelled to attend Roman Catholic schools?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the principle on which the Irish Board of Education acted, was to give to children of all persuasions an equal advantage in the schools that had been established, reserving to every one not only freedom of conscience, but the fullest opportunity of obtaining religious instruction according to his own creed. He thought this was a principle that would be approved of by the British public. But he would take the liberty of suggesting to the hon. Gentleman, that if he condemned this system on account of some vague and unsubstantiated statement which he might happen to have seen in some paper, without affording those who upheld the system the means of contradiction, then that there could be no system—whether Catholic or Protestant—whether of the Orange or the Green party—that could stand the test of attacks of that kind. Those who adopted and administered the system now pursued had no disingenuous object whatsoever. It never was intended by these votes to establish an exclusive system of instruction. On the contrary, it was always avowed that the schools were to be common to all—both Catholic and Protestant. If the hon. Gentleman, instead of mis-stating the actions of the Commissioners from unauthenticated documents, most likely coming from persons not very impartial in their decisions, would furnish the Government or the House with time, place, circumstance, and proof, an inquiry should be immediately instituted, and if any abuse should be found to exist, it should be corrected. But if, instead of abuse, these attacks against an establishment which ought to be considered placed on neutral ground, but which had, unhappily, been made the arena of the most bitter party contest that was ever known—if, he would repeat, these attacks should, as in all probability they would, be proved to be gross calumnies, then the detection of their falsehood could not, he was sure, fail to be most gratifying to the hon. Gentleman
 463
 Mr. O'Connell  had the honour of knowing one of the Protestant Commissioners—a Gentleman at the Irish bar—he meant Mr. Holmes—well, and he was quite sure that if any thing wrong were brought before him, he would resign his situation rather than tolerate it in the slightest degree. The hon. Gentleman had made two statements which were doubtlessly perfectly true; the one was, that he had seen a certain paper; the other that he believed it to be true. Further than this, however, he did not go. He had not enlightened the House by telling them what the nature of the paper was, from whom he got it or who the producers of it were; or whether it was part of Den's Theology. He really wondered how the hon. Gentleman could be so imposed upon. The hon. Member had read a paper which the hon. Member described as an investigation into the manner in which these schools were conducted and yet the paper which he had read contained a string of questions and answers? Who put the questions? Who gave the
 464
 Mr. Randall Plunkett  would have been sorry to trespass on the House, if he had not had some facts to communicate which were connected with the subject of this grant, and which he considered to be of great importance. One of those facts was contained in a petition, which he should present to-morrow, from the inhabitants of the borough of which he had the honour to be the representative. That petition stated that the plan of education sanctioned by the Government was placed in Drogheda in the hands of two Franciscan friars, to be carried into effect as they pleased, and that there were no persons more zealously disposed to establish popery on the ruins of the Protestant Church in Ireland than these two Catholic Ecclesiastics. Two Protestants who were Trustees had been driven from the superintendence of the school. In their stead came these two Franciscan friars who had even made preparations for erecting a Franciscan monastery in the town. Now if the Members of his Majesty's Government were really as sincere Members of the Church of England as they pretended to be, they would agree with him in thinking that Protestant children ought not to be sent to a Franciscan school, and that their grandchildren, if they should have as numerous a progeny as the hon. Member for Dublin, should have some chance of a Christian education like their fathers, in the principles of the Church of England. Another of the facts to which he had alluded was the possession of the school at Ennis by two monks. His information on that subject came from a Mr. Fitzherbert, a Magistrate and Deputy-lieutenant of the county. These were two facts. He was convinced that the late Government had no intention to support the system of Edu-
 465
 Mr. O'Connell  repudiated, in as strong terms as any man could use with courtesy, the imputations which the hon. Gentleman had cast upon those whom he had been pleased to designate tauntingly as Franciscan friars. He wanted to know whether a man had not as good a right to be a Franciscan friar as to be the member of an Orange lodge? He (Mr. O'Connell) thought that a man had a great deal more right to be a Franciscan friar than a sworn Orangeman, for the latter was a member of an illegal society, while the former was attached to a church to which the hon. Member did not belong, but which had nevertheless its ordained ministers, and was tolerated by law. He had had the honour of knowing a Franciscan friar, to whom it would be a difficult task for the hon. Gentleman to compare himself. He was alluding to Father O'Leary. Father O'Leary was a Franciscan friar, and he (Mr. O'Connell) thought the hon. Member would find it a task of exceeding difficulty to find any man who was acquainted with both, ready to affirm that the hon. Member was as well educated as that Ecclesiastic. In one portion of education he was sure that the hon. Member was more deficient than Father O'Leary—and that was in Christian liberality. It did not become the hon. Member to speak in the way he had done of Franciscan friars. They had as good a right to be in the town of Drogheda as the hon. Member himself had, and perhaps were as well received by the inhabitants as the hon. Member would be if he should go to visit them. If they conformed to the regulations of the board in their management of that school, they had a right to keep that school. But if the hon. Member could show that they violated those regulations, then he would make out a case either against the Franciscan friars or against the commissioners, or it might be against both; but until he did make out such a case, those despised
 466
 Mr. Bellew  observed, that the language of the hon. Member did not surprise him, as it was a well-known fact that those who had gone from the cause of the people were always the most bitter in the hostility which they subsequently displayed towards them. He could say, from his own knowledge, that the management of the School at Drogheda had given great satisfaction in that town and neighbourhood. The new Education Board had established several schools in the county with which he was connected. There were already fourteen or fifteen schools there under its control; and so far from those schools having been established contrary to the general opinion of the gentry and magistracy of the county, he could inform the House that four or five Protestant Magistrates, who were also high Tories, had voluntarily signed the requisition for their establishment to the Board of Education. In Ulster, where the Protestant population was most predominant, 900 such schools existed at present. The number was daily increasing, and the larger the sum devoted to this object was, the greater would be the spread of education, the greater the good understanding between the different sects of religion, and the greater the conviction of the Irish people that the Government of England was inclined to attend to their wants and wishes on all subjects of domestic legislation.
 Mr. Bridgman  rose to set the hon. Member for Drogheda right with regard to his observations on the management of the school at Ennis. The managers of that school had got a small grant from the Education Board; and for that small grant seven or eight hundred children were educated at Ennis by gentlemen whom the hon. Member tauntingly called monks. Now, the fact was, that those gentlemen were not monks. He hoped that the hon. Member was better informed respecting the school at Drogheda than he appeared to be respecting the school at Ennis.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the hon. Member had accused him of accusing the hon. Member for Drogheda of displaying violent sectarian feelings in defence of his religion. Now, he had done no such thing; but he had accused the hon. Member of displaying violent sectarian feelings when he assailed the religion of another Church. He, for his part, assailed no man's religion. But the hon. Member had talked tauntingly of Franciscan friars and monks, and had used the word "Popery." Now if there were an offensive nickname for Protestants, as there was, what would be said of him if he were to use it in that place? If he were to speak of Protestants as heretics, he should deserve to be put down in that House. He expected, if the same courtesy or privilege was not to be extended to Roman Catholic Members which they were disposed to show towards Protestant Members—he expected, he said, that the House would extend to him the right of repudiating any attacks that might be made upon his Creed. The monks to whom the hon. Member for Oxford had referred were called Education Monks, but were not monks according to the definition of the law, for they had not taken any oaths or entered into any orders, which brought them under the statute prohibiting the increase of monks in Ireland. They had, however, registered themselves as the Emancipation Act required, but under a protest that they felt that they did not come under the interpretation of that Act. He wished that his example in refraining from making attacks on the religion of others might be followed by those who, with Christian charity ever on their tongues, exhibited little of it in their speeches and actions.
 Mr. O'Connell  was sorry, that the hon. Member for Kent had referred to the authority which he had quoted, as to mass being said in these schools. He could not charge the hon. Member for an English county with uttering a falsehood; indeed, he knew that he was incapable of so doing—but still he exhibited an instance of the grossest ignorance. He should be cautious before he was inclined to give currency to such silly calumnies, which, indeed, would appear so if they were not so utterly ridiculous. He trusted that, on a future occasion, this subject would be discussed in a different tone and feeling from that exhibited on the present.
 Mr. Lefroy  said, that the hon. Member for Bridport (Mr. Warburton) brought a charge of illiberality against Trinity College which he must be permitted to tell the hon. Member was quite groundless. That University conferred degrees upon persons of all religious denominations without the slightest distinction. It allowed Roman Catholics and others to
 482
 Mr. O'Connell  said, what was sauce for the goose was sauce for the gander. He would give the hon. and learned Member as much conscience as he pleased—he wished Protestants had a little more of it. The hon. and learned Member said, the Dublin University was open to Catholics. Yes, as far as education went, they were very liberal, but they never gave a Scholarship or a Fellowship to a Catholic; they were very careful of their good things. But to this he would answer, the College of Maynooth was precisely on a footing with the Dublin University. Protestants might be educated there if they pleased, and, with all due regard to their consciences, they might attend all the courses, excepting of course those of religion. He would now relate an instance of the way in which Catholics in a Catholic country treated such a subject as this. In Belgium a vote of money was moved in the Chamber of Representatives towards the expenses of a Protestant chapel in Brussels. Some division of opinion took place on that occasion: there were four Catholic clergymen in the Chambers, and three of those voted in favour of the grant, and only one against it.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the hon. Gentleman had charged the Roman Catholics with duplicity. No man could make that charge of duplicity against others, but one who judged from himself; and he (Mr. O'Connell) repudiated the foul and false charge. "What (continued the hon. and learned Member)! Is such a charge to be made, and are we to be prohibited from noticing it? Oh, no; it may do at Exeter Hall; but it will not do here. There is no policeman here to put down those who attempt to defend themselves. I repeat, therefore, that I return the slander to the foul source from which it comes."
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would merely say, that his hon. Friend in laying it down as an abstract proposition, that the State ought not to support any religion which was disavowed by the State went too far, for that argument, pushed to its proper conclusions, would lead the Dissenter and Catholics at once to resist the giving any support to the State religion. The fact was, that a large mass of the population of Ireland were Catholics, and they must be dealt with as Catholics. He supported the grant therefore, entirely on the grounds of expediency, it being in his opinion, necessary to give to such a large body all the advantages of the State.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that at so late an hour he would not detain the House very long, but it was necessary that he should give some explanation on so important a subject. He was bound to express his acknowledgments to the right hon. Member for Tamworth (Sir R. Peel), who had originally asked a question in reference to the tea duties, which, however, he had abstained from pressing until the intentions of Government should be more fully formed on the subject. What these intentions were he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was now about to
 485 ad valorem ad valorem d. s. d. s. valorem ad valorem s. d. s. d. ad valorem 486 l. l. s. d. s. d. s. l. 487 s. d. l. s. d. l. s. minus l. s. d., s. d., s. s. d., l. d. s. d. 488 s. s., s. s.
 Mr. Crawford  said, that there was not a single point in the speech just made by the right hon. Gentleman which had not been urged upon the Committee last year, and which ought not (in his opinion) to have influenced their determination. What the right hon. Gentleman had now stated to be the fact, had been distinctly foretold by him (Mr. Crawford). If ever a subject connected with fiscal arrangements had been treated peculiarly in defiance of all acknowledged commercial principles, it was the settlement last year of the duty on tea. As to the practical result to be expected from the proposed change, the right hon. Gentleman had spoken of 28,600,0001bs. of tea, as having been the quantity brought to charge from the 22nd of April, 1834, to the 5th of April, 1835. Now the consumption of tea in 1833–1834 was 33,000,000 of lbs., and he was
 489
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  begged to say some words in reply. The figures which he had read did not comprehend the whole year, but they were just as good for his argument. With respect to the proposition of the hon. Member, it was one which, on reflection, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was sure the hon. Member would not persevere in recommending. The hon. Member proposed to suspend the operation of the proposed measure on the lower descriptions of tea; but to carry into effect the reduction of the duty on the higher descriptions. Now in what condition would that put the owners of large quantities of the lower descriptions of tea, who had bought it when there was a high duty on the higher descriptions? It would drive them out of the market.
 Mr. Goulburn  was disposed to give his right hon. Friend credit for acknowledging the error of the Government, and coming forward manfully to redress it. He confessed that it was peculiarly agreeable to him to perceive that the arguments, and even the very words made use of on his side of the House in opposition to the measure originally, were now quoted by the Government who brought it forward. He regretted that the plan proposed by his right hon. Friend had not been adopted then, as by that means a year's vexation and trouble and expense would have been saved, and the trade would have been in a more healthy state than it was at present. With respect to the amount fixed by his right hon. Friend, he should only say that he had his own doubts as to whether two shillings would not be amply sufficient for all fiscal purposes.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  denied that the charge on the public would be greater than before. As to the suggestion of the hon. Member, it would be quite impossible, consistently with justice and fair dealing, to adopt it.
 Lord John Russell : I have received his Majesty's commands to state that he has been graciously pleased to place at the disposal of this House, for the purposes of this Bill, all his Majesty's interest in any benefices and Ecclesiastical dignities of the Church of Ireland.
 Colonel Perceval  explained. He mean that the qualification should be liable for the debts and expenses of a Member while in or out of Parliament. With respect to
 458
 Colonel Perceval  agreed with the hon. Member who had just spoken, that some alteration should be made in the mode of deciding election petitions. He could not go the length of the hon. Member for Tipperary, who asserted that a lease of lives, renewable for ever, was equivalent to a perpetuity. He was no lawyer, however, and would not dispute the point. With regard to the introduction by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin of the account of the majority and minority for the candidates, he thought it highly improper. Although he had stated the number voting for the unseated candidate, he had omitted to state, that between two and three hundred had been deterred by intimidation from coming to vote for his hon. Friend, and that 116 who voted against him were coerced so to vote, contrary to their better judgment. Elections in Ireland should be regulated differently from what they were, for there existed at present in that country an influence which it was impossible to contend with, which it was difficult to come at, but which most effectually coerced those opposed to it in opinion. It was incumbent on the Parliament to do something to remedy this evil. As the law stood, a man might go to the hustings with a consciousness of success, which, notwithstanding, would be defeated by the operation of that unseen influence, and the effect of the underhand dealing resorted to further its ends. The Legislature should also amend the defect of qualification, and correct the evils which flowed from it. In his opinion, a qualification should be made available for the debts and expenses of a Member, even while in Parliament, otherwise there would be a perpetual recurrence of the humbug exercised every day. He thought the House far too liberal in fixing the amount of qualification; at all events, far too liberal in the practice which existed respecting it. With respect to the petition before the House, he should only say, that, as in his opinion, it implied an imputation on the Committee, he should vote against its reception.
 Colonel Sibthorp  had no idea whatever that anything was coming on. He looked with the greatest suspicion to every thing that was done on the opposite side.
 Mr. Ronayne  regretted, that no allowance had been made for the ignorance manifested by the people of Drogheda of a law which the Members of the Committee professed they did not know themselves. With respect to the statement of his hon. Friend, the Member for Meath, that the Orangemen had been armed at the election for that county, he should, in corroboration of it, only refer the House and hon. Members who doubted it, to the evidence of Mr. Despard, taken before a Committee.
 Mr. Lechmere Charlton  should vote for the reception of the petition, if it were only to place Committees of the House on a more respectable footing than they
 456
 Mr. Fitzstephen French  declared he could not allow this vote to pass over in silence. He felt it his duty to call the attention of the House to the different system adopted towards Canada, a distant and half alienated colony, and that adopted in everything relating to Ireland, an integral portion of the empire. It could not be better exemplified than it was in the estimate now before the House. Government, after the expenditure of upwards of a million on the formation of this canal, admitted on all hands to be merely a work of local improvement to the country in which it is situated, and which, enjoying all its advantages, refused to pay the sum
 460 l. l. l., l. 461
 Mr. Finch  observed, that the hon. Member for Tynemouth appeared to have made rather an extraordinary statement when he said, that though he had been but a very short time in Ireland he had made himself master of all the details of the system of education there pursued. The hon. Member said, that he had perused all the works introduced into the schools. He held in his hand a pamphlet, which, in his opinion, contained most objectionable observations. In one version of the Scriptures the expression was used "it shall crush the serpent's head," but in the Roman Catholic version it is rendered "she shall crush the serpent's head." Although there might be apparently little difference in the sense of these, still a most important distinction was drawn. The words used in the note to the passage are, "Oh! Holy Blessed Virgin Mary, you were promised from the beginning of the world that by your seed you should crush the serpent's head." Now he thought that this was one of the most objectionable expressions that could be introduced into a work for the education of both Catholics and Protestants. The Bible had not been excluded from the Kildarestreet schools.
 Mr. Finch  was sorry that he could not agree with the right hon. Baronet as to the probability of the Irish system of education working well. The greater part of the children of persons of the Established Church could not avail themselves of it, and such being the case, it was vain to talk of the system working well. He had received an account of several schools from respectable authority. His authority was the reverend Robert Daly, and the communication mentioned several schools that were built in the chapel yards, and supported by grants from the Commissioners. In some of those schools no Scripture lessons were read, but a Roman Catholic catechism was used, and the attendance consisted exclusively of Roman Catholic children. He would read a few specimens and leave the House to say whether this were a system of general education:—
 "Hacket's-town.—The school recently built and not quite finished in the Chapel-yard. The children at present attending in the Roman Catholic Chapel, but not yet in connexion with the Board. Roman Catholics, 48; Protestants, 7. The Board granted at first 106 l., l. "English-town.—The school is holden in the chapel. The teacher Roman Catholic. Grant for salary 5 l. "Baltinglass.— A male school about two perches from the chapel. A female school in a branch of the chapel cut off by a partition. Teachers Roman Catholic. Grant for salaries 22 l. Dr. Doyle's Catechism. "Tullow Female School.—Children entering this school must pass through the chapel-yard; in fact, it is in it, but divided by a door. Salary 25 l. Dr. Doyle's Catechism. "Tullow (male).—This school is entirely in the hands of monks. The Board gave 13 l. l. Doyle's Catechism "Fermoy School.—A well-built and extensive school. Roman Catholic teachers. Salaries 50 l. l. Butler's Catechism, Think well on it, 473 "Macroom School.—Built in Chapel-yard. On entering this school I found the master, a Roman Catholic, repeating and explaining some of the prayers, collects, and acts of faith, hope, and charity, out of the Roman Catholic prayer book, to all the children collectively, although it was not his day of religious instruction. They never received the Scripture lessons. Roman Catholics, 501; no Protestants."
 Mr. Finch  said, he opposed the grant,
 483
 Mr. Robinson  deprecated discussion on these subjects. He should vote for the reception of the petition, because it would have the effect of bringing the subject of Election-law under the notice of the House. It was objected to Election Committees that the Members composing them were generally ignorant of the law, and the objection was in most cases a good one. But there was a still stronger objection to them in the fact that they were improper judges, as it was universally admitted that party spirit influenced them. When he reminded hon. Members, that in the phraseology of the House, a Committee was termed "a good one," or "a bad one," according as the political opinion of the majority of its Members were in accordance with or contrary to those of the individuals petitioned against, he believed he need hardly mention any stronger circumstance to condemn them. In the course of the present Session, he (Mr. Robinson) had received a printed circular, calling on him, on the supposition of his entertaining certain political opinions, to attend the House when Election Committees were to be ballotted for; to the end, he presumed, that he might in that, as in other respects, give his aid to the party calling on him. He trusted that whatever might be the immediate result of the petition before the House, it would have the effect of inducing some improvement in the constitution of Parliamentary Committees. As it existed at present they were a disgrace to the House and an injustice to the country.
 Mr. Sinclair  protested against the vote for no Protestant state was bound to bring up its subjects in the errors of the Roman Catholic faith. That was contrary to the religion of the State, and he would never sanction it.
 Mr. George F. Young , in explanation, said, that it appeared to him that the hon. Gentleman seemed to have taken a lesson from the polemical disputants who had recently figured in Exeter-Hall. The hon. Gentleman had just referred to a passage to be met with in one of the books used in the schools, which did not appear to him (Mr. Young) to be so objectionable as to the hon. Gentleman. It had not been insidiously introduced, however, by a Catholic, but by a zealous Protestant of the Establishment, and as sound a scholar as was to be found in the empire, who contended that it was the correct translation of the text, and who challenged any persons to dispute it with him.
 Mr. George F. Young  said, that the hon. Members who opposed the present grant appeared to have arrived at very sweeping conclusions from very ill-considered premises. Within the last few months he had visited Ireland for the first time, and whilst in Dublin he endeavoured to obtain all the information he could relative to the national system of education, and he had brought away with him, and since read, every book used in the schools. It was his conscientious conviction from all which he had heard and read, that if the principle were recognized that it was improper to attempt to force upon Catholics the adoption of the doctrines of the Protestant Church, it was impossible that a better mode of education for Protestants and Catholics indifferently could be devised than that now acted upon. He regretted the tone in which part of the discussion had been carried on; it was time to lay aside prejudices and hold out the right hand of good fellowship to all who were inclined to co-operate in the task of promoting education. The statement which the hon. Member for Kent read contained an obvious error; it was said that mass was performed in one of the schools in the morning and evening; but it was well known that mass was performed only once a-day, and that was in the morning.
 Mr. George F. Young  asserted that the rate fixed by the right hon. Gentleman would have the effect of increasing the absolute amount of revenue without proportionately benefiting the community. He thought that there would be no difficulty in extending the old system of auction to those outports at present permitted to enter tea; and to reimpose the  ad valorem
 Mr. Henry Grattan  was astonished at the sublime ignorance of the hon. Member. Had the hon. Gentleman read the series of questions issued by the Board of Education in Ireland?
 Mr. Henry Grattan ; Have you read it?
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, that one of the questions put by the Commissioners was framed to ascertain whether the ground on which it was proposed to build school-houses was contiguous to a chapel, and if this turned out to be the case the Board refused to make any grant. He indignantly repelled the charges made on this occasion, although they were no more than might be expected from individuals who went to mountebank societies to make charges against the people and religion of Ireland—charges as false as hell. After this they pretended to support the cause of education for the people, but he rejected such support. He thanked God that the disturbers of the public peace in Ireland were at length about to be put down. He did not think that we ought to give the whole Bible to be read in schools— ["Hear, hear!" from the Opposition.] 471
 Mr. Henry Grattan  denied, that there had been any intimidation practised towards the opposite party by the electors who voted for the petitioner. It was true, that a great number of electors did not vote, but it was because they saw the overwhelming amount of votes to counterbalance them, not because they were prevented from doing it. He admitted, that here was, as the hon. Member for Sligo remarked, an influence at work in Ireland; but it was an influence solely arising from the universal feeling of the people. The hon. Member had charged the party who supported the late Member for Drogheda with practising intimidation; but he (Mr. Grattan) could charge the other party in the late election for Meath with parading about with weapons in their hands, headed by a Protestant clergyman armed with pistols. It was the general opinion of Irish lawyers, that a tenure for life in Ireland was equivalent, as far as regarded the validity of Parliamentary qualification, to a fee-simple in England. With respect to the last assertion of the hon. and gallant Member for Sligo, that the petition should be rejected on the grounds that it impeached the decision of the Committee who tried the former petition, he had only to observe, that if his doctrine were to be adopted, no petition against the decision of a Committee could ever be presented to that House. He trusted the House would take into consideration the mode of appointing Committees, and secure the rights of individuals as well as the rights of Parliament.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  wished to know whether it was not the fact, that the High-sheriff of the county, Sir Marcus Somerville, had disarmed an Orangeman in the County Court-house on the day of the election; and whether swords had not been taken from them?
 Mr. Warburton  observed that the House were not much in the habit of considering the language of petitions with such extreme strictness as there appeared a disposition to practise on the present occasion. It appeared to him that the petitioner said this—"the Committee having decided in favour of the hon. Gentleman who now represents Drogheda, their decision makes him legally the Member." But the Committee were mistaken in the law of the case. Committees so constituted were particularly liable to such mistakes; and, he, therefore, prayed the House to provide a legislative remedy for the future. If they rejected the present petition, they would shut the door to a class of complaints, to which, in his opinion, they were bound to give attentive consideration; and they would go further—they would, in effect, declare that the law which governed Election Committees was quite perfect, although, in private, hon. Members did not scruple to pronounce upon them unqualified condemnation. The House could not have forgotten the case of Mr. Halcomb, who, having given an imperfect description of his qualification, applied
 452
 Mr. Warburton  asked why, as the colony of Western Australia was established, not under Government, but under private auspices, it should have an establishment like that at Southern Australia, which was a Government colony.
 Mr. Warburton  said, the only objection he felt to the vote was to the site of the College for which it was intended. He could see no reason why it should not be on the same site as where the Clergymen for the Established Church were educated. Any one who took the trouble to examine the charter of Trinity College, Dublin, would see that it was intended to be one of many colleges. Let Trinity College have different Professors in Theology, one for Protestants, another for Roman Catholics, but why should not both be instructed together in arts and general literature. It was well worthy of the consideration of his Majesty's Ministers, whether the site of Maynooth College ought not to be changed. Such a course would be but carrying out the principles laid down by them in their system of general education.
 Mr. Warburton  approved of the plan of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, but he thought it was in the power of that right hon. Gentleman to diminish the rate of duty below what he had fixed it at. For instance, he thought that two shillings would be found amply sufficient while striking off the odd penny would
 491
 Mr. Horace Twiss  observed, that all the persons in the colony would be starved if the grant were withheld.
 Mr. James Grattan  regretted the tone that had prevailed throughout the debate. He thought the funds not now voted were utterly insufficient; they should have a large surplus applied for the object. The establishment should be on a more extensive scale than it now was. He hoped also
 475
 Mr. Bodkin  said, that the school of Esker was principally supported by Mr. James Daly, the brother of the redoubted hero who came over to fight the battle of Protestantism at Exeter Hall. If the hon. Member had made inquiry before he made the statement he had just given utterance to, he would have held his peace.
 Dr. Bowring , although not an Irish Member, saw with great pleasure the sum of 35.000 l.
 Mr. Hardy  denied, that the charge of bigotry could fairly be brought against those who opposed the present grant. He had ever been favourable to Catholic Emancipation and to the equality of civil rights for Members of every religious creed; but it was a very different thing for a man attached to his religion, and who wished to be saved by it, to see his children brought up in a religion which he did not approve.
 Mr. Hardy  said it ought to be under-
 470
 Mr. Hardy : I have seen the book.
 Mr. Hardy : Yes; I have read it, and I can point out matters in it which are not consistent with Protestant principles.
 Mr. Plumptre  denied, that this was a party question, or that he had ever been opposed to a system of education under which children of all religious creeds could be brought up. He had, however, a very strong feeling as to the course now pursued, and should feel it his duty to divide the House upon the subject.
 Mr. Plumptre  said, that having met with the passage to which he had before referred, he should now quote it, especially as some doubt appeared to be thrown on the matter. The report was written, by Mr. Graham, and was dated the 2nd of July. It stated, that in the case of one school visited by the writer, at 1 o'clock on that day he found the children dismissed in consequence of a fair which was held two miles off. Mr. Graham received his information from two ushers in the school, who stated that it had been established in 1827, and was visited daily by the friars. In answer to the question, "For what purpose is that altar used?" The reply was, "For reading mass morning and evening." The inquiries and answers proceeded—"Do Protestant children assemble along with the Roman Catholics?"—"Yes; they must attend." "Is the school daily opened and closed with mass?"—"Yes." "At what hour in the morning will the school commence?"—"At half-past 9." "Will it be then opened by mass as usual?"—"Yes; by one of the friars." "Who is the person that celebrates mass on the occasion?"—"One of the friars from the convent." This concluded the day's discourse, said the writer, and I proposed to attend the school in the morning. The information referred to the school of Esker. On July the 3rd Mr. Graham again visited the school, and ascertained from the master that he had superintended the school for six years, that 50 l. 474
 Mr. Plumptre  said, he had seen a paper in which questions and answers were given respecting the manner in which the schools under the control of the Board of Education were conducted; and that from these
 462
 Mr. Plumptre  was bound to object to this vote. He could not avoid expressing his disapprobation of the proceedings of the Commissioners of Education in Ireland.
 Mr. John Young  much regretted the
 469
 Mr. Hume  moved, as an amendment, "That the sum be reduced to the grant of last year, namely, 5,806 l. s.
 Mr. Hume  certainly would not press the Committee to a division on that occasion; but on the bringing up of the Report, he should feel it to be his duty to take the sense of the House upon the point.
 Mr. Hume  inquired if the Government had had any communication with the authorities in Canada respecting the large expenditure of money that had already been incurred to extend water communication in that country. Upwards of 300,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  begged to inquire what a Civil Government was required for. Formerly, all the establishment deemed necessary to manage affairs at Heligoland was a captain and a lieutenant; but now we had a lieutenant-governor with 500 l. l. l l., l. s., l. s. d., l. s. d., l.
 Mr. Hume  was of opinion that, under those circumstances, it would be expedient to postpone the Resolution until the necessary information could be obtained.
 Mr. Hume  protested against this grant, which was in violation of the pledge given on the establishment of the colony. He wished to know how many of the original settlers remained, and what were the expenses of the colony? They should either withdraw, or be compelled to support themselves.
 Mr. Hume  regretted that his Majesty's Government had determined to abandon the discriminating duty. It appeared to him to be contrary to all principle to lay a duty of 300 per cent. on cheap teas, and a duty of not 100 per cent. on others. If Government were determined on this measure, there was no alternative, but he could have wished they had tried the existing system for another year.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  was aware of the fact to which his hon. and learned Friend adverted, and he would tell him this in perfect good humour, that if a vote for 35,000 l.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, it was not his intention to say anything that could add to the unpleasant feeling which had been exhibited during the debate, but he could not content himself with giving a
 477 478 l., 479 Morpeth
 Mr. Pease  thought the arrangement and scale of duties proposed by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer would be highly beneficial to the community. He much regretted, however, that the present system should be suffered to exist for another year.
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  corroborated the statements made by his hon. Colleague in reference to the armed intervention of the Orangemen at the Meath election. A sword-cane had been taken on that occasion from a person in the gallery of the Court-house, on the day of nomination, by the High-sheriff, which person appeared to belong to the party of the hon. Member for Drogheda.
 Mr. Sheil  rose for the purpose of calling the attention of the Committee to the date of the estimates in which the present vote was included. That date was the "8th of April, 1835," a period when a Government was in power which, doubtless, in the hon. and learned Member's (Mr. Jackson's) judgment, showed great discrimination in selecting individuals for the honours of the Irish bar. The hon. and learned Member at that time uttered not a syllable against the proposed grant of money, and he (Mr. Sheil) must admit that the hon. and learned Member's conduct with respect to the whole matter exhibited not a little talent. As the Frenchman said, " Il a grand talent pour le silence. Mum, 480
 Mr. Sheil  supported the prayer of the petition. What it said was, that although the decision of the Committee was incontrovertible, its judgment was not infallible. It had nothing to do with the sitting Member; its object was simply an amendment of the law, to be applied to future elections. It was a singular feature in the case, that the only lawyer in the Committee, the person who might naturally be supposed to possess the soundest judgment in points of law coming under its decision, was clearly of opinion that Mr. O'Dwyer's qualification was a perfect one. In Ireland, leases renewable for ever had
 453
 Mr. Wyse  said, that they had been told that the Bible had been excluded from the new schools, but the charge now was a want of Christian charity in adopting a system to prevent Roman Catholic and Protestant children from being educated together. The truth was, that from the conduct hon. Gentlemen pursued they seemed anxious to divide Ireland into two sects, entertaining the most rancorous feelings the one towards the other. Except in doctrinal points there was but little difference between the Catholic and Episcopal Church of England, but it would appear from the tone of the discussion, that hon. Gentlemen wished to carry the differences which existed into every act of social life. He would not charge the individuals whose authority had been so repeatedly referred to this night in support of the statement made, but he would say, that they laboured under the grossest errors and ignorance. He trusted that the present system of education would be extended throughout the country.
 Mr. Wyse  said, the question in reality was, whether the Roman Catholic clergy should go abroad, as heretofore, for instruction, or whether they should obtain it at home? He thought the grant should be double the amount fixed in the estimate.
 Mr. William S. O'Brien  denied that the religion of the State was essentially Protestant. The House of Commons represented the people, and there were two registered votes this Session contrary to the wishes of the Irish clergy. The State was bound to extend the blessings of education equally to all its subjects. He regretted that the sum voted was not greater.
 Sir John Hobhouse  thought, that the noble Lord had given the best reason for endeavouring to unite Protestants and Catholics whenever the attempt was practicable—the difficulty of union proved the necessity of attempting it at an early period of life, when the effort might be attended with the best chance of success. With all submission to the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Randall Plunkett) who had to-night expressed his opinions for the first time in that House, and who intimated that the right hon. Baronet at the head of the late Government only waited for a convenient opportunity to discard the existing system of education in Ireland, he thought the hon. Member paid a bad compliment to the right hon. Gentleman by the supposition. It was the duty of the King's Government to see that no part of this grant was misapplied—and there was no proof that such had been the case. However, if the hon. Gentleman could bring forward a case of abuse, a remedy should be applied. For his own part, he felt persuaded, that if the system were successfully applied, and if fair play were allowed, it would contribute in no small degree to
 472
 Sir John Rae Reid  declared that he had never entertained a doubt but that the system which the right hon. Gentleman now proposed was the system which ought to have been adopted in the first instance. Large sums had been lost by the course which had been taken; but that circumstance might, perhaps, ultimately do good.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, he thought the hon. and learned member for Dublin had misunderstood his hon. Friend the Member for Stamford, and had alluded to something his hon. Friend had said in another place, and not to what he had just uttered in his seat in that House. His hon. Friend had not made a general charge of duplicity against the Catholics as a body, but merely expressed an opinion, founded upon facts and reports which other hon. Members, as well as himself, must have heard, that the clergy of Belgium were not entitled to the full meed of liberality which was claimed for them in the instance referred to, because it was an accredited fact that they voted for the grant for the Protestant chapel, because they wished to induce English families to come and reside in Belgium. With respect to the grant before the House, it was a relic of the old Irish Parliament. When that Parliament was united with that of England all its obligations were taken along with it upon the Imperial Parliament, and this grant, being one of them, had always hitherto been agreed to. As, however, of late years, some other charges and grants of a like kind, and under a similar obligation, had been dispensed with, he thought all those who had a conscientious objection to the application of the funds in the pre-
 484
 Sir Robert Inglis  deprecated the practice of one hon. Member accusing another of displaying violent sectarian feelings in defence of his Church. He could not sit in the House without expressing his objections to such a practice. With respect to the observations of the hon. Member for Ennis, that those who conducted the system of education in the school of that place were not monks, he should leave that hon. Gentleman to settle the point
 468
 Sir Robert Inglis  was not aware that the question was to be brought forward on the present occasion. He had, however, objected to the principle before, and he saw no reason why he should not repeat the objection now.
 Mr. Wynn  said, the petition distinctly questioned the legality of the judgment. The House had no authority to pronounce whether the Committee had or had not decided rightly. They could only legislate for the future. The petitioner alleged that he was prepared to prove that the decision which had removed him from his seat, and which had deprived his constituents of their representative, was illegal." Now, he would ask, was not this a direct impeachment of the legality of the decision? They might as well say, that all election petitions should be decided by a majority of the House, as in the time of Sir Robert Walpole, who said that, in his eyes, the merit of the petitioner established the validity of the petition.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  considered the present petition in the nature of an appeal from the decision of the Committee. [" No, no.
 Viscount Morpeth : I hope the hon. Gentleman will not think it discourteous on my part if I defer the defence of the Irish Board of Education until he has brought forward his reasons for the censure he has preferred against them.
 Lord Morpeth  moved that the Tithes and Church Ireland) Bill be read a second time.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that it was a rule with the Commissioners of the National Board to prefer schools unconnected with places of worship, although they did not refuse aid in all cases of schools otherwise circumstanced. He felt assured that it was the wish of the Commissioners to consult as much as possible the religious scruples of every body.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that the vote now under consideration stood first on the Irish miscellaneous estimates, and any one who looked at the paper might easily conclude that it would come on this evening. With respect to the question raised by the hon. Member for Kent, he felt assured that if, in schools connected with the board, any practice subsisted which gave offence to Protestants, as regarded the treatment of their children, the evil would be redressed on a proper application.
 Viscount Morpeth  hoped if the reverend Mr. Daly had any complaint to make that he would send the grounds of it to the Government or the Board, in which case the grievance, if any, would be redressed.
 Viscount Morpeth  could not consent to refuse to set apart so small a sum for the religious education of so large a number of people.
 Viscount Sandon  believed, that the hon. Member opposite used stronger language than he really meant to apply. It was somewhat extraordinary that the hon. Gentleman should accuse the hon. Member for Bradford of gross ignorance in reference to schools being built near chapels, because they had it in evidence on all sides that they were so built. It must be admitted that there was great difficulty in bringing Catholics and Protestants together for purposes of education, without a surrender or attempt to subvert some important point on one side or other—the result of which must be, that schools would be no longer considered neutral ground.
 Lord Lowther  hoped to be indulged by the attention of the House for a few minutes on a matter personal to himself. He had seen by the publications of this morning, that yesterday, in another place, there had been what he might call a field-day of Postmasters-General. In the outset he would say that while he had acted as Commissioner of inquiry into the Post-office, although his time had been limited to about two months, he in that period had endeavoured, as well as his abilities and his occupations in the House would allow, to serve the public zealously and faith-
 539 540 541 l. l. l. l. l. 542
 Mr. Vernon Smith  did not wish to enter into the question between the noble Lord and the Postmaster-General, or to join in any crimination or recrimination on either side; he rose only for the purpose of alluding to one return which the noble Lord complained had not been made. He had had the honour to belong to the Post-office Commission, and he would state that Colonel Yorke had certainly
 543
 Colonel Sibthorpe  did not rise to oppose the Bill, but merely for the purpose of throwing out a few suggestions for the consideration of the hon. Member for Durham. He would be the last man in the world to throw ridicule upon any measure having humanity for its object; but the hon. Member, though he enumerated bull, and bear, and badger-baiting, and fox-hunting, had entirely forgotten the atrocious and abominable practice of skinning cats alive which had lately been carried on to a great extent. He hoped the hon. Member would include this offence in his Bill.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  considered that the Bill gave too much and too arbitrary power to the inspectors to be appointed under it: and also to the mischievous class of informers who had
 538
 Mr. Alderman Wood  thought the expense of the inspectors would be found much too high, particularly in the City.
 Mr. Wallace  merely rose for the vindication of his own conduct, which had been impugned in another place. He adhered to every word he had uttered on the former night, and was prepared to prove his statement if an opportunity were afforded. In answer to the noble Duke, he would only refer to a speech he had delivered on the 6th of August last. With regard to the speeches of the various Postmasters-general, it was perfectly conclusive, from their remarks, that they were very ignorant of the office they administered. The noble Lord the late Postmaster-General, after highly lauding Sir Francis Freeling, had arrived at the strange conclusion of differing from him upon many important points, and reversing his directions. He had praised him as if he were the first person in the country, and must, therefore, have possessed a most extraordinary degree of self-complacency when the noble Lord considered himself competent to decide against the opinion of so able and experienced an officer. He (Mr. Wallace) had complained that opening letters was a common occurrence, and in two several years he had complained that a felony had been committed in opening letters in Scotland. He had moved for some papers upon the subject, namely, the informations lodged for the prosecution of the parties; he had argued that the letters had been opened at the Post-office for the purpose of prosecution, and he had
 544 subpœna Exeter Hall!
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would not throw any obstruction in the way of the Motion, and he believed the hon. Gentleman would find on the part of the artists every disposition to facilitate his views, and to afford all the information in their power. He would only say, that he did not concur in the observation, that artists were estimated at a lower rate here than in foreign countries. He knew that there were instances of some celebrated men having been neglected, as for example Flax-man, but, in general, that arose from some peculiarity, or negligence, or fault of the artist himself. Generally, however, talents, in this country, obtain a certain and a large reward.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the most marked difference between this and foreign countries consisted in this circumstance—that in other countries the poorer classes of the people had habitual opportunities of seeing works of art, by which their taste was refined, whereas in England the opportunity of viewing such works formed only the exception to the general rule of exclusion. The nakedness of Churches in this country as contrasted with the splendid exhibition of works of high art in the churches of the continent was enough to strike the mind with sorrow, especially when it was considered that churches were the only buildings which were capable of holding large pictures; and further, that they were open to the poorest classes. The effect of contemplating works of high art in the continental churches was to raise and soften the public mind, religious enthusiasm becoming mingled with an admiration of art. Who could go into the City and view the exterior of the magnificent pile St. Paul's without admiration? It was to be lamented that the interior was a dreary solitude, with the exception of some banners. Would it not be better if fine paintings replaced those emblems of war, and an opportunity were afforded the people to admire within that splendid building some of the noblest specimens of the art?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said that as the hon. Member did not mean to press his measure to a second reading, it would be wholly useless to introduce it at all, especially at this advanced period of the session. He could expect to gain nothing by bringing it in, and, therefore, the wiser course would be to withdraw it for the present.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  wished to assure the hon. Member for Tynemouth
 579
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  felt bound to oppose the Motion; and he thought that if the House were not prepared to leave out of view the rights of all other parties interested in the claims, they would join him in opposing it. The Baron de Bode's case was not a new one. It had been before the House from time to time, since the year 1816. The Baron de Bode had had opportunities before the Commissioners, before the Lords of the Treasury, before the Privy Council, and before a Committee of the House, yet he failed in making out his case. In every instance he Baron de Bode failed to produce evidence; and now, at this late period of the Session, he came forward to ask for a re-appointment of that Committee before which he was unable to make out his case last Session. It would be an absolute act of injustice to the other parties interested, if the distribution of the fund were delayed any longer. He hoped, for these reasons, that the House would join him in opposing the Motion.
 The Solicitor General  said, that this was only an attempt to make the House a tribunal of appeal from the common tribunals of the country. The funds in question were vested in Commissioners for adjudication and distribution among the claimants, and an appeal was given to the Privy Council, but the Act of Parliament under which the appeal was so given expressly declares that the decision of the Privy Council should be final. The claim of the Baron de Bode was, he contended, the most Quixotic that ever came before the House. The whole had been submitted to a competent tribunal, and that tribunal had adjudicated against the claim.
 Mr. O'Connell  contended that the great-
 583
 Colonel Lowther  had, also, understood the hon. Gentleman to state positively that it was not his intention to bring forward the Motion that night.
 Mr. Pryme  said, that if any doubt upon die subject had previously existed in his mind, the speech of the hon. Member for Yarmouth (Mr. Praed) would convince him that the House ought to grant the Committee; inasmuch as that the hon. Gentleman's observations involved no denial of the fact of the distribution of money.
 Mr. Evelyn Denison  supported the Motion. The petition alleged that a certain sum of money was paid to electors at great Yarmouth, and that was a fact which he thought ought to be inquired into.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the Liverpool Committee had for its object to check corruption, and it did check it, as by the admission of the noble Lord on another occasion there had been no bribery since. If the electors of Yarmouth were so pure and so calumniated why was there not a counter petition? Why no denial of the present petition?—and there was time enough for it. He admired the delicacy of the Member for Yarmouth in saying, that he would not say a word about bribery—that he knew nothing about it. If the House refused a Committee, they would be protecting bribery. Bribery was a horrible thing, but it was more horrible that it should go forth to the public that the House refused inquiry. The fact of bribery at Yarmouth was not denied—171 persons allege of their own knowledge that it was committed; that it was a practice up to the last election. It was said, the proposed Committee was an infringement on the Grenville Act. But the Grenville Act was bad, as it was notorious that Members were canvassed to attend the ballot, and that the canvassing went on on both sides openly. Any Committee was had where there was a chance of an overwhelming majority being given to one party. In the present Committee, care
 593
 The Solicitor-General  said, that as a charge had been made, not against himself, but against his constituents, he hoped that the House would allow him to speak of what
 597
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : I do not think that the hon. and gallant Gentleman has dealt quite fairly with the House, or with those Gentlemen to whose individual cases he has alluded as being similar to those of the hon. Members for York and Yarmouth. I do think that he has not acted in a spirit of justice to my hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Penryn; for he should have recollected that a petition was lodged against that hon. and gallant Gentleman containing allegations of bribery and corruption, and those allegations, the parties who brought them forward, have been completely unable to prove; and yet, contrary to this decision, the right hon. and gallant Gentleman now comes forward and designates my hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Penryn, as an individual Member whose conduct is open to animadversion. Now all I can say is, let that case, or any other case involving bribery or corruption, be brought forward, whether on a small scale or on a large scale, and I, for one, shall never be found in a minority against its being referred to the decision of a Committee; but after the decision to which I have alluded, the right hon. and gallant Officer has certainly done wrong by referring to the case of Penryn and casting a censure on my hon. and learned Friend.
 Mr. Lowther  called the attention of the House to this fact, that the first of the petitions presented against his constituents was signed by not more than forty-five, and the second by not more than sixty-three, persons. There was, therefore, a great difference between this case and that of Yarmouth, where the petition had been numerously signed. The House would also be surprised to hear, that many of the individuals who had signed these petitions had since shrunk from avowing their sig-
 600
 Mr. Lowther  said, that it was not his intention to cast any imputation upon the petitioners. He admitted that, in their individual capacity, they were all highly respectable persons. He did not know whether all of them stood aloof from party contests; but this he did know, that all, or at any rate the great majority of those who signed the petitions, had voted in the late elections against himself. He agreed with his noble Friend, the Member for Liverpool, that hon. Members were too much in the habit of crying out, "Spoke,spoke," when they heard arguments advanced which told too strongly against themselves. The charges contained in these petitions did not at all affect him, but they affected his constituents, the Freemen of York, who were
 602
 Lord Francis Egerton  expressed his general concurrence with the views entertained by the hon. Gentleman who had introduced this subject, and thought that much advantage might be derived to the manufactures of this country, by the adoption of some of the measures contemplated by that hon. Gentleman. He could not, however, estimate the merits of our professors at a lower degree than those of foreign artists, nor could he admit that there was any want of encouragement of art in this country. This observation applied generally to all branches of art, historical as well as portrait and landscape, although the size of historical pictures generally precluded them from private galleries.
 Lord John Russell , in reply to the speech of the right hon. and gallant Officer on the other side of the House, observed, that it was difficult to lay down any precise rule in such a case as that which had been proposed to his consideration. Still, in cases like the present, where a petition was presented, alleging as a fact that sums of money had been sent in letters to the voters as a consideration for their votes, he thought that the House was bound to institute an inquiry. But, in cases where a small number of electors did nothing more than make general allegations of bribery against their brother electors, he thought that doubts might fairly be entertained whether the House was bound to interfere at all.
 Lord John Russell  said, that it certainly appeared to him desirable that the appointment of this Committee should be deferred for four-and-twenty hours.
 Lord John Russell  would shortly state the grounds on which he should give a vote different from that of the right hon. Baronet. He had long been of opinion, and he had stated that opinion many years ago to the House, that the Act called the renville Act, while it provided a tribunal where one, less just certainly, before existed, to decide the question between private parties as to which of two Candidates ought to have the seat, yet it provided an inadequate and insufficient tribunal before which the public when aggrieved by cases of gross bribery and corruption could obtain redress. He remembered when he first mooted this question, quoting the case which was formerly brought before the House, now more than a century ago, by Sir Edward Seymour. On that occasion, gross bribery, in several boroughs, was inquired into, and the parties being proved guilty, were brought to the Bar of the House; and the thanks of the House were given, by the Speaker, to Sir Edward Seymour, who said, that he deserved the thanks of the country for the course he had pursued. The right hon. Baronet had said, that possibly defects did exist in the present system. He begged to say, that he had not been wanting in his endeavours to supply those defects. He had more than twice succeeded in carrying Bills through nearly all their stages to cure those defects. Two Bills had been taken up to the House of Lords, having that for their object: one was rejected on the ground of its being too late in the Session to pass it; and the other came back to the Commons so altered, and containing provisions so entirely new, and so inconsistent with the privileges of this House, that he was unable to obtain the assent of the House to the Amendments. Nor did he think it likely that anything he could devise would be at once acceptable to this, and be sanctioned by the other House of Parliament. Then in the present state of the law, and while they were not capable of obtaining the assent of Parliament to a sufficient remedy, ought the House of Commons; he would ask, to allow gross cases of bribery to be brought before
 591
 Colonel Leith Hay  considered that it was highly inconvenient to allow Bills to be brought in which were not intended to be persevered in.
 Mr. Charlton  observed that he had yesterday given notice that he would call the attention of the House to a paragraph in  The Morning Chronicle The Morning Chronicle The Morning Chronicle The Morning Chronicle The Morning Chronicle The Morning Chronicle, 547 The Morning Chronicle, The Morning Chronicle, The Morning Chronicle The Morning Chronicle. 548 "Nec lex est justior ulla Quam necis artifices arte perire sua.' General cries of "Order, order, order!
 Mr. Charlton  begged the Speaker's pardon. He (Mr. Charlton) had stated at the commencement of his speech, that he withdrew his Motion on the condition of being allowed to make a few observations without being interrupted by the Attorney-General. [ Cries of "Order, order, order!" amidst which the hon. Member sat down.
 Mr. Cayley  admitted that the petition which he had presented from the inhabitants of York was not numerously signed; it was, however, signed most respectably, for it had the signatures of five or six aldermen, of the town-clerk, of three or four clergymen, of two or three bankers, and of several most respectable merchants and tradesmen. They were parties who held themselves aloof from the violent partisans on both sides of the question, and being such persons, the prayer of their petition ought, in his opinion, to be attended to immediately.
 Mr. George F. Young  said, that he must, as an independent Member of that House, protest against the course pursued on the present occasion, when it was no later than one o'clock that morning that a Bill was brought in by a Member of the Government, who, at the time, admitted that it was not his intention to proceed with it during the present Session. He, however, could not see the advantage to arise from the introduction of any of the Bills.
 Mr. Aglionby  hoped that, at that late hour of the night, (it was a quarter to two o'clock) he should be spared the necessity of stating the circumstances which induced him to move that the petitions of the inhabitants of York, complaining of bribery and treating at the last elections for Members of that city, be referred to a select Committee. As the petitions had been printed, he should take it for granted that every Member was acquainted with their contents. The principle on which it was proposed to refer such petitions to the consideration of a select Committee was so well known, that he would not venture to say a word upon it. With regard to the first petition; which was presented from the inhabitants of the City of York, he would only observe that he considered, that in presenting it he was performing a duty unpleasant in itself, but still necessary, as it had been put into his hands. He was sure that the House would excuse him from going into the details of the petitions, as there was nothing in either of
 599
 Mr. Aglionby  could not conceal his surprise at the ground upon which the right hon. Gentleman rested his opposition to the Motion. In his (Mr. Aglionby's) view of the subject, the only question to be considered was, whether the House had or had not the power of appointing such a Committee as that moved for. If it had the power, there could be no doubt as to the propriety of exercising it. The course pursued by the House in the cases of Liverpool and Stafford, where Select Committees were appointed to investigate allegations of bribery, afforded, in his opinion, direct and satisfactory precedents for the course now proposed to be pursued in the case of Great Yarmouth.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, that if the Committee so constituted were to proceed on its inquiries, it would not be long before there were petitions from other counties and places, calling in question the returns of hon. Members on the opposite side of the House. He was convinced, from the specimen which they had that night, not of judicial conduct, but of party feeling, that the Committee could not dispose of these two cases, without hearing others of a similar description. He respected much the character of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General; but he could not help expressing it as his opinion, that there was the same facility of accusation by means of petition with as numerous signatures, against the constituents of the hon. and learned Member, as against those of the hon. Members for Yarmouth and York. He would not now name other places; but he knew many other hon. Members who, before the Committee closed its proceedings, would be brought under the operation of the same system. Therefore, he did consider, that the mode in which it was proposed to strike the Committee in the Yarmouth and York cases, was not at all satisfactory. He thought it would be much better to have the appointment postponed for twenty-four hours.
 Sir Henry Hardinge , in explanation, said that he had purposely avoided making any charge against the hon. and learned Gentleman; all he had stated was, that the constituency of Penryn would in all probability, be placed very speedily on their trial, as well as of several other cases which he did not think it necessary to mention, if these precedents were established. The Penryn Election Committee had only tried the question of agency, and on that point the sitting member had a full right to claim the benefit of their decision, but the inevitable consequence of the unprecedented proceedings of that evening would be, for questions being entertained with respect to the independence of the constituencies all over the country.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  again repeated, that as the rule was now established, it was desirable that the House should know what number of signatures it was necessary to attach to a petition to obtain a Committee of this kind.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  contended, that when a new precedent like the present was established, it was fitting that the House
 601
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, that as not more than one individual in forty of the electors of York had signed these petitions, he was anxious to learn what number of signatures would be hereafter deemed sufficient to induce the House to follow the example which it had now set, of referring petitions containing general allegations of bribery exercised among the constituency to the consideration of a select Committee. Out of a constituency of 400 persons, such for instance as existed at Tavistock, if ten persons were to send a petition to the House complaining of the general corruption of the electors, would the noble Lord opposite deem that number sufficient to induce him to grant a Committee to inquire into the allegations of their misconduct? As to the case of York, the proportion was one to forty; was it intended that elsewhere the same proportion should be the criterion of the numbers necessary to obtain an inquiry into allegations of corruption? If that were to be the criterion, perhaps hon. Members on the other side of the House would soon find a greater number of petitions presented against the disinterested purity of their constituents than they might find agreeable.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, that his only reason for alluding to Tavistock, was because he then saw the noble Member for Stroud standing right opposite to him. He was sure that the noble Lord would agree with him, that under the Reform Bill, Tavistock had been a place of particular favour. He was convinced that the last election at Launceston had been conducted with as much purity as any election in the country, and he repudiated all insinuations to the contrary.
 Mr. Labouchere  regretted the manner in which this subject had been brought forward. He had had no recent communication with the noble Lord at the head of the Post-office department, but he understood that an accusation had been preferred against Lord Maryborough, for his conduct when that noble Lord was Postmaster-General. He thought, therefore, that the noble Lord now at the head of the department was justified in allowing Lord Maryborough to go through the Post-office, for the purpose of making those personal inquiries, the answers to which were necessary to his defence. But it was not because, under such circumstances, he allowed the noble Lord that privilege, that he was to allow it to any individual Member of Parliament by whom it might be required. He repeated what he had stated the other night, that he did not stand there as the defender or apologist of any abuse of what kind soever. He trusted that he and the other Commissioners who were appointed to investigate the management of the Post-office, would be found prepared to do justice to the public. In consequence of what had been stated the other evening by another hon. Member, he had thought it his duty to inquire at the Post-office, how it happened that such imperfect returns had been made with respect to the Money-order Office, and other matters; and he could now state that in a few days an amended return, comprehending complete details on the subject, would be ready to be laid before the House.
 Mr. Warburton  thought that it was necessary to exhibit to the people fine specimens of painting and sculpture, and improve their taste generally, before attempting to apply the fine arts to the improvement of our manufactures.
 The Speaker  observed, that the hon.
 549
 Mr. Buckingham  said, the notice which I have given on the Order Book of the House, embraces three measures—which are so nearly allied to each other in their object though separated under different heads for the better arrangement of their details, that I shall save the time of the House, and promote the general convenience, by speaking of them as one. My present purpose is, to ask the leave of the House merely to introduce those measures, so as to admit of their being printed, if the House should so approve, and by deferring their second reading for a sufficient period to admit of ample time to give them general circulation throughout the country, and thus to obtain the expression of public opinion as to their principles and details. As, however, the Bills undoubtedly contemplate great and important changes, I owe it to the House and to the country, no less than to myself, to explain the grounds on which I ask those changes to be made, and to show that evils will result from things being suffered to remain as they are, and benefits be produced by the amendments that I propose. In doing this, I shall confine myself strictly to the subject, and trouble the House with no more than really appears to me essential to the establishment of my case. 563 564 565 566 As your Committee are fully aware that one of the most important elements in successful legislation is the obtaining the full sanction and support of public opinion in favour of the laws, and as this is most powerful and most enduring when based on careful investigation and accurate knowledge as the result, they venture still further to recommend the most extensive circulation, during the recess, under the direct sanction of the legislature, of an abstract of the evidence obtained by this inquiry, in a cheap and portable volume, as was done with the Poor-law Report, to which it would form the best auxiliary; the national cost of intoxication and its consequences, being tenfold greater in amount than that of the Poor-rates, and pauperism itself being indeed chiefly caused
 567 568 569 The remedies which appear to your Committee to be desirable, and practicable to be put into immediate operation, may be thus enumerated:— The separation of houses in which intoxicating drinks are sold, into four distinct classes:—1. Houses for the sale of beer only, not to be consumed on the premises; 2. Houses for the
 570 The limiting the number of such houses of each class, in proportion to population in towns, and to distance and population in country districts; the licences for each to be annual, and granted by magistrates and municipal authorities, rather than by the excise; to be chargeable with larger sums annually than are now paid for them, especially for the sale of spirits; and the keepers of such houses to be subject to progressively increasing fines for disorderly conduct, and forfeiture of licence, and closing up of the houses, for repeated offences. The closing of all such houses at earlier hours in the evening than at present, and uniformly with each other, excepting only in the last class of houses, for travellers, which may be opened at any hour for persons requiring food or beds in the dwelling. The first and second class of houses, in which beer only is sold, to be closed on the Sabbath-day, except for one hour in the afternoon and one hour in the evening, to admit of families being supplied with beer at those periods; the third class of houses, where spirits only are sold, to be entirely closed during the whole of the Sabbath-day; and the fourth class, as inns or hotels, to be closed to all visitors on that day, excepting only to travellers, and the inmates of the dwelling. The making all retail spirit shops as open to public view as other shops where wholesale provisions are sold, such as those of the baker, the butcher, and the fishmonger; in order that the interior of such spirit shops may be seen from without, and be constantly exposed to public inspection in every part. The refusal of retail spirit licences to all but those who would engage to confine themselves exclusively to dealing in that article, and consequently the entire separation, in England, Scotland, and Ireland, of the retail sale of spirits, from groceries, provisions, wine, or beer; excepting only in the fourth class of houses (as inns or hotels), for travellers and inmates, or lodgers, as before described. The prohibition of the practice of paying the wages of workmen at public houses or any other place where intoxicating drinks are sold: The prohibition of the meetings of all friendly societies, sick clubs, money clubs, masonic lodges, or any other permanent associations of mutual benefit and relief, at public houses or places where intoxicating drinks are sold; as such institutions, when not formed expressly for the benefit of such public houses, and when they are  bona fide 571 The establishment, by the joint aid of the government and the local authorities, and residents on the spot, of public walks and gardens, or open spaces for athletic and healthy exercises in the open air, in the immediate vicinity of every town, of an extent and character adapted to its population, and of district and parish libraries, museums and reading-rooms, accessible at the lowest rate of charge, so as to admit of one or the other being visited in any weather, and at any time, with the rigid exclusion of all intoxicating drinks of every kind from all such places, whether in the open air or closed. 572 573 574 575 576
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that all he asked was to have the Bill introduced for the purpose of printing and circulation, and if this were conceded he would not press it to a second reading if the sense of the House should be against him.
 Mr. Buckingham : I am bound to show every proper deference to the opinions of the House, even when I cannot adopt those opinions as my own; and therefore I shall be disposed, after the manner in which my first and second Bills have been received, not to press the third against the sense of the House, at least for the present session. But I must, at the same time, say that I cannot agree with my hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex, in thinking that the cheaper you make spirits, and the more extensively you spread places for their sale, the more sober the population will become. On the contrary, all experience and all evidence proves that the increase of beer-shops and dram-shops, in this country at least, leads to an increase of drunkards; and considering that drunkenness is the most fruitful source of crime, disease, and poverty among the labouring population, it is as much for their benefit as for that of the community generally, that the facilities for drunkenness, and the means of indulging in that vice, should be diminished rather than increased. If the hon. Member would ask any officer of the navy or army whether he thought the granting free access to an unlimited supply of spirits or beer would improve the sobriety of his crew or regiment, the inquiry would be thought an insult to common sense; or if he were to ask the policemen or overseers of any district in town or country, whether open houses for the gratuitous or cheap supply of intoxicating drinks would make the neighbourhood more sober or tranquil, they would think the question proposed in jest. As to the hon. Member's statement, that I am beginning at the wrong end, it is somewhat difficult for me to understand which he would think the right one. I have endeavoured to begin at both ends—the one by the way he recommends, education and healthful pleasure for those who are to be operated upon by these means; the other, by restriction for those to whom neither instruction nor recreation will have the least attraction from their habits being too confirmed to yield to this mode of treatment. If I thought it possible to wean away from habits of drunkenness, all those
 580 581
 Mr. Praed  said, that having distinctly understood from the hon. Member, at an earlier hour in the evening, that it was not his intention to bring forward his Motion that night—
 Mr. Praed  would never come forward to state a fact as a witness in that House, upon a point which affected himself personally. The hon. Gentleman would hardly take his silence upon the point as a proof of the guilt of others.
 Mr. Praed  would only suggest to the hon. Gentleman, that if on any other occasion he should have a Motion of this description to bring forward, strongly affecting the character and reputation of individuals, it would be very desirable that he should use no expression whatever calculated to convey to the minds of any who heard him a doubt as to the course he might intend to pursue. Had he (Mr. Praed) been aware that it was the hon. Gentleman's intention to persist in bringing forward his Motion, he should have been prepared to show how the Petition in question had been got up. He could state, however, from his own knowledge, that it was signed by persons not inhabitants of Great Yarmouth—not members of the constituency of that borough; that it was signed, in fact, by a very small minority of the constituency, and principally by persons wholly unconnected with the town. He (Mr. Praed) was extremely sorry that the suggestion of his hon. Colleague for printing the names of the parties whose names were attached to the Petition had not been complied with, because it would have been the means of showing to the world who those petitioners were, and how little connexion the majority of them had with the town of Great Yarmouth. Had his hon. Friend's suggestion been acted upon, he believed that the names of several Members, distinguished on both sides of that House, would have been found amongst the signatures. As the result of the Motion, however it might be determined, was not likely to affect his (Mr. Praed's) seat, he should deal with it as one in which he had no individual concern; and looking upon it in that light, he would beg to ask the House how such a Motion could be entertained? The offences alleged in the Petition, if they had really taken place, were cognizable by the courts of law. With
 586
 Mr. Bagshaw  hoped the hon. Member for Sheffield would not persist in his Motion.
 Dr. Bowring  thought that the morals of the people would be more served by enabling them to have wholesome beverage, than by any other means that could be devised.
 Dr. Bowring  thought the opinions of the
 559 artistes, francs Sandon 560
 Dr. Bowring  stated, that when he was in Paris four years ago, he had an opportunity of knowing something of the correspondence on the subject of the Post-office, which was going on between the British and French Governments; and he must say, that more unworthy documents than those which proceeded from Sir Francis Freeling he never met with. The conduct of the French Government, on the contrary, was most conciliatory and praiseworthy. They offered, if letters for France were put into the Post-office in England without any postage being paid, to take the trouble of arranging and settling with the British Government afterwards. They were willing to allow that the English Post-office packets should convey the letters both from England to France, and from France to England. These propositions were rejected; and
 546
 Dr. Bowring  said, that though legislalation might not be found efficient in accomplishing everything that was to be wished, yet an effort ought to be made to do all that was possible.
 Mr. Rundle . Perhaps the hon. and gallant Member had better take his criterion from Launceston than from Tavistock, especially as a petition was presented in the last session of Parliament from the former borough against his return, on the ground of the corrupt charges which he had appeared to patronize.
 Mr. Rundle  would say, that his constituents at Tavistock courted the strictest investigation into the manner in which the election of Members was conducted in their borough. He was surprised that the hon. and gallant Officer should have alluded to the Borough of Tavistock, when he had a case at hand much more apposite—he meant the Borough of Launceston, of which the inhabitants had last year presented a petition against the right hon. and gallant Officer's return.
 Mr. Wilks  begged leave, as a Chairman of the Penryn Election Committee, to state, that by that Committee a full opportunity had been given to the petitioners to bring forward any specific charge of bribery, either against the sitting Member or any of his supporters. The Committee had left an opportunity open to the petitioners of bringing forward evidence, which they had not brought forward; the Committee had given them an opportunity of bringing forward proof of general bribery; but of that opportunity the petitioners had not availed themselves. The Committee had, therefore, no opportunity of entering into that question.
 Mr. Wilks  said, the Bill was calculated to do very great service, consolidating, as it did, three or four different Acts on the subject.
 Mr. Wilks  thought that there had been too much petty legislation already on the subject of public-houses. For his part he wished the trade to be thrown open.
 Mr. Brotherton  said, that nothing could be more worthy the attention of the Legislature than the introduction of measures having for their object the improvement of the habits and the elevation of the character of the labouring population. Anything that tended to promote the comfort and improve the morals of the lower classes deserved the most favourable consideration on the part of that House, inasmuch as the country owed much of its prosperity to the labouring classes, and it was the duty of the Legislature, therefore, to render their condition as happy as possible. As far as Manchester was concerned he was able to bear testimony to the injury sustained by the inhabitants of that town in consequence of the want of public walks and places of innocent recreation in the open air. The labouring population of Manchester exceeded 20,000. They were confined in factories during the week, and resided for the most part in narrow and crowded streets, so that it was a great privation in their case to be without proper places for the enjoyment of healthful exercise in the open air when leisure permitted them to take it. He fully agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield that the lower classes of this country were degraded by the habit of intoxication, which was but too prevalent amongst them. That habit invariably led, not only to poverty and wretchedness, but to crime; and it was because he thought the measures proposed by his hon. Friend would tend to
 577
 Mr. Brotherton  hailed the measure as a further step in civilization.
 Mr. Hume  considered himself, and he hoped the House would also consider itself under an obligation to the noble Lord for the statement just delivered; the active part the noble Lord had taken in public affairs, and the manner in which he had devoted his time to inquiries into the different departments, rendered his evidence of peculiar value. He was sorry that the noble Lord had not had justice done him for his exertions in the Report on the Exchequer, as he had been the first to take up the subject with a determination to go through with it; if obstacles had not been interposed, a reform of the Exchequer would have been effected at least ten years ago.
 Mr. Hume  intreated the hon. Member not to press the Bill, but to be satisfied with bringing up the other two. The regulations affecting public-houses and coffee-shops were constantly changing, greatly to the injury and loss of their proprietors. He trusted the House would not sanction eternal legislation on this subject. It was beginning at the wrong end. Let the hon. Member educate and improve the people first, find deal with public-houses afterwards. The Bill imposed a variety of new restrictions, whereas he would remove all those which now existed, and render the sale of beer and spirits as free and open as that of tea and sugar.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the inferiority of
 562
 Mr. Hume : I do hope that hon. Members will not be deterred from doing their duty by the threats which have been dealt out by the hon. and gallant Gentleman; if such proceedings as those to which the
 596
 Mr. Pease  moved that this Bill be re-committed. He trusted that the Bill would be suffered to pass, as it was eminently calculated to prevent the dreadful cruelties which were daily practised towards animals. He would be the last man in the world to support the measure, if it tended to abridge the amusements of the poorer classes; but he was persuaded that it would have no such effect.
 Mr. Ridley Colborne  expressed his satisfaction that this subject was to go before a Committee, although he regretted that the Motion had not been made in an earlier part of the Session. It was true that encouragement was given to the arts in this country, but it was by private individuals. It was a fact, that in England alone not a shilling was given by the Government for the encouragement of art; unless the 5,000 l.
 Mr. Borthwick  said, our artists, in the higher departments of the arts, were as much superior to those of France as Italy was superior to England in the fine arts. In confirmation of this remark it was only necessary to mention the names of Wilkie, Martin, Lawrence, and others equally distinguished. He could not think, therefore,
 561
 Mr. Potter  expressed his cordial concurrence in the Motion of the hon. Member for Sheffield. He begged to refer the House to the following extract from a work lately published by Mr. Bailey, of Sheffield:—"The hostility which has been shown by well-intentioned but mistaken moralists against popular amusements would be pernicious, if it could have any effect. Such amusements are required for the healthy play, both of the moral and of the physical constitution of man; and the propensities which they gratify, if not allowed to take a salutary, will assuredly take a mischievous direction. Amidst the monotonous employments arising out of the extreme division of labour in civilized states, excitement and exhilaration are especially demanded and must be had: if they are not to be got in the active game, the absorbing representation, the animating burst of music, the splendid pageant, the spirit-stirring address, they will be sought and found in the tavern and the gaming-house, or the want of them will people the infirmary and the asylum."
 Mr. Potter  supported the Motion, and expressed a wish that the public might be allowed to see the specimens of the fine arts in Westminster Abbey on a Sunday.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  rose to submit the Motion of which he had given notice, "That the Petitions from Great Yarmouth, presented 26th and 30th June, alleging, among other things, that the sum of two guineas had been lately paid to many of the voters at the house of one of the most active partisans in behalf of the sitting Members, and humbly and earnestly praying that the House will cause an inquiry to be made into the circumstances stated in the Petitions, and that they be referred to a Select Committee." In support of the Motion, the hon. Gentleman, in the first place, read the resolution of the House against bribery. He then went on to state, that the Petitions were signed by 1,370 persons, and that the allegations of bribery were set forth in the strongest and most decided terms. The appointment of the Committee would not affect the return of the sitting Members; and, unless the resolution he had read were intended to be regarded merely as a dead letter, he contended that the House could not refuse to accede to his Motion.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  begged to interrupt the hon. Gentleman. He had given no such pledge.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  declared he had not given a positive answer to the question. His reply was conditional. When the
 585
 Mr. Wason  said, that he was at the disposal of the House.  [Cries of "Name the Committee" from Mr. Hume and several hon. Members near kim.]
 Mr. Wason  thought it perfectly fair that six Members should be appointed on the Committee from that (the ministerial) side of the House and five from the other side—the five being selected from the counties of York and Norfolk.
 Mr. Thomas Baring  would not detain
 588
 Mr. Fowell Buxton , in bringing forward his motion, respecting the treatment of the Aboriginal inhabitants in the British Colonies, begged to state why that motion had been delayed so long. There were certain papers respecting the Commissioners appointed to determine the frontier line of the Cape of Good Hope, which it was highly important should be produced. He had moved for them in the last Session, and again in the early part of the present Session, but they had not yet been laid upon the Table. The subject was one which deeply interested a large body—he might say many millions—of persons, and was therefore entitled to the most serious consideration of the House. When he had last addressed the House upon the subject, he had adverted to the cruel oppression which had been practised on the unhappy individuals in question by depriving them of their lands and other property. He had on that occasion expressed his hope that a different kind of policy would be adopted towards them, and his conviction that humanity would be found a course not only more consonant to good feeling, but productive of more advantage than severity. He now repeated his firm opinion that kindness would be far preferable—that it would be far safer, far cheaper, and far more profitable, than coercion. He repeated, that the question was one which demanded the most serious consideration; the lives and property of not
 550 [The hon. Gentleman read a number of extracts from various works, to prove that position.] 551 552
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  agreed with the right hon. Baronet in thinking the present an unseasonable period for the appointment of a Committee upon the subject; but he had felt himself compelled to bring forward the Motion, because the documents for which he had twice moved had not yet been produced. He was perfectly ready to accede to the terms proposed by the right hon. Baronet, namely, that the Committee should be appointed—that it should make no Report this Session, and that it should only take evidence of persons about to quit the country.
 Mr. Gisborne  said, that he would not enter into the merits of the case of Baron de Bode, which had so frequently been brought under the consideration of the House, but would confine himself to simply stating his reason for moving for the re-appointment of the Committee which sat last Session to investigate that individual's claim. The Committee stated in their Report that they could not terminate the inquiry before the close of last Session in consequence of it having been necessary for the Baron de Bode to send to the Continent to obtain fresh evidence to establish his claim; but they added that their labours were nearly brought to a close, and recommended the House to consent to the revival of the Committee at an early period of the present Session. During the recess the Baron de Bode had been employed in procuring evidence from the Continent at an expense of 3,000 l., 582
 Mr. Wyse  had the honour of seconding the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Liverpool, and could not but express his wonder and regret that a question so nearly allied, not merely to the arts, but the manufactures of the country, should have been so long left untouched. It was true, as the hon. Gentleman had stated, that in the combination of the arts and manufactures, England stood the lowest perhaps in the scale of Europe. It was one of the earliest efforts of the French government to bring forward those two great objects of intellectual culture. It was a remarkable feature in the numerous schools of that country that it was
 556 557 558
 Mr. Wyse  supported the Motion. Their object should be to prevent the commission of crime, and as those Bills seemed to have that tendency, he should vote for having them brought in. There was hardly any country in Europe, from the most to the least civilized, in which there were so few public institutions for the diffusion of knowledge as in Great Britain. This was much to be deplored, and he thought that as such institutions tended to the good of the State, the Government should in all cases be bound to make provision for them.
 Mr. Ewart  denied that a competent tribunal had ever heard the case; and, therefore, contended that it could not be considered as finally decided. In his opinion, the character of the House and of the State would be compromised, if the present Motion were rejected.
 Mr. Ewart  rose to bring forward the Motion, of which he had long given notice, for the encouragement of the Fine Arts. He would first allude to the evidence of the hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Dr. Bowring), given before the Committee last Session in support of his views on the subject. That
 554 555
 Mr. William Roche  declared that there never had been a case which experienced a more indulgent consideration from every tribunal before which it had been brought than the case of Baron de Bode.
 Mr. William Roche  said, he should also give his support to the Motion, because he knew that the want of public walks and literary and scientific institutions was much felt by the inhabitants of Limerick, the town which he had the honour to represent.
 Sir Frederick Trench  could only say, that he had put the question to the hon. Gentleman himself, as to whether he would bring his Motion on that night, and the reply was, "Certainly not."
 Sir Frederick Trench  repeated, that the hon. Member's reply to his question was "Certainly not."
 Sir George Grey  did not rise to object to the principle of the Motion, or even to oppose it. He thought the question one deeply affecting the character of the nation, and one which, therefore, demanded the attention of the House of Commons. Still, as on the 1st of July last year the hon.
 553
 Sir Robert Inglis  thought that the case had been decided by a competent tribunal, and that with that decision the House ought not to interfere.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that a great part of the speech of the hon. Member for Waterford (Mr. Wyse) consisted of a depreciation of the manufactures and taste of the people of this country. [" No, no" from Mr. Wyse. s.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that he should give his vote against the appointment of a Committee upon this ground—that the effect of such an appointment would be gradually to undermine the force of that tribunal which had been founded for the express purpose of securing equality and impartiality in the decisions of that House. The hon. Member who cheered might doubt whether the tribunal had that effect; and if the hon. Member would show him that any other system could be devised, by which the character of the House could be sustained for the impartiality of its decisions on election cases, he should be glad to adopt it. He was not contending that the present tribunal was the best for that purpose, but was simply stating, that the object of it was to do away with the scandal of former times, which was practically found to result from leaving these matters to be decided under the influence of party feeling in this House. If petitions, such as that now before the House were made the subjects of special inquiry, the House would be virtually doing away with the Grenville Act, and taking from the proceedings of election Committees the sanction of an oath, which only Committees under that Act could administer. What was the fact with regard to the Committee on the Liverpool case? They had no power to compel the attendance of Members; and he believed that not three
 589 590
 Sir Robert Peel  addressing the House. He was understood to suggest to the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) that the appointment of the Committee should be postponed until to-morrow.
 Sir Robert Peel . I have no interest in this question. I only suggested that it would be best for the character of the House to adjourn the appointment of the Committee for twenty-four hours.
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  denied, that this case could be compared to the case of Stafford. When the parties in that case refused to proceed it was not consistent with the dignity of the House to allow the matter to stop. The hon. Baronet then adverted to the Hertford case of last year, and asked the noble Lord (Russell) why it was that after gross bribery had been proved in that case he had not brought the matter before the House upon the noble Lord's Own resolution of which he (Sir Thomas Fremantle) altogether approved.
 Mr. Sergeant Wilde  said, that nothing had prevented the Baron de Bode from coming forward earlier but his inability to find any Member who had sufficient leisure to take up his case. It was not the fault of the Baron de Bode that it had not been brought forward sooner. He had looked into the case, and he considered it one of great hardship, and he would venture to say that on its merits there never had been any adjudication. It was remarkable that the case was always met on new grounds, which, when examined, had been invariably rebutted. He thought that the re-appointment of the Committee was only an act of justice.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  contended that if the Motion were acceded to, the House would be giving greater advantages to the Petitioners than under any other circumstances they could have. They would
 587
 Lord Ebrington  said, that if the right hon. and gallant Officer had felt himself justified in casting imputations upon the electors of Tavistock, merely because he sat opposite to his noble Friend the Member for Stroud, surely the hon. Member for Tavistock had a right to feel himself justified to glance at the constituents of the right hon. and gallant Officer, especially as he sat opposite to the right hon. and gallant Officer, and knew that a petition had been presented from Launceston against his return. In giving his vote in favour of referring these two petitions to a select Committee, he must observe that he did not give it so much in the hope of amending the representation of these two places, York and Yarmouth, as in the hope that it would produce the effect with which the right hon. and gallant Officer had threatened his side of the House—namely, that in all cases in which bribery had been committed, and in which the parties who could have proved it, were deterred by the ex-pence of disputing the return from coming to prove it before the House, they would now come forward to prove the bribery before a Committee of the description which
 603
 Viscount Howick  observed, that if it happened that parties prosecuting an election petition on the ground of bribery, afterwards made a compromise, there was no method whatever under the existing state of the law by which the honour and dignity of the House could be vindicated, or those who had violated its privileges be punished. It was absolutely necessary, therefore, to institute an inquiry by the House itself. Was it a sufficient reason not to have an inquiry that there was no party sufficiently interested to incur all the vexation and expense of prosecuting a private election petition! If the House refused inquiry upon no other ground than this, the public would have a fair right to believe that they were not anxious to put a stop to bribery and corruption. With these feelings he gave his most hearty acquiescence to the Motion. The House divided, when there appeared,
 Viscount Sandon  opposed the Motion. As to the Liverpool Committee, he knew one Member of it who said he never read one word of the defence, and heard but part of the case of the petitioners. What would the country say when such a case as this was to be forced, in opposition to all precedent and justice, by a party who happened to possess a majority? Was a question of this sort to be made a point for party, for majorities or minorities? If so, then no constituency was safe. If the Committee were granted, the parties, whether they were successful or not, would be allowed all their expenses out of the public funds. Was the Chancellor of the Exchequer such an economist as to grant the public money for this purpose? The tribunal was an unfair one. When the noble Lord brought forward his resolution he should have directed the Committee to be a sworn Committee, and the parties to enter into recognizances to maintain their own case at their peril.
 Lord Sandon  rose amid cries of "Spoke," and said, that the hon. Member for Ipswich
 598 [Cries of "Spoke, spoke."]
 Lord Sandon  looked more into the improvement of manufactures than of the arts in the appointment of this Committee. Without a single encouragement being given to the arts by the establishment of a public school our artists exceeded those of other countries who were petted and fostered in national academies. He preferred the landscapes of British artists to the stiff and academic figures and designs of Rome and Milan.
 Sir R. Greisley  moved as an Amendment, that no weights should, after the passing of this Act, be made of other metals than gold, silver, iron, brass, or copper.
 Colonel Sibthorpe  supported the Motion. He could shew by the speeches of Earl Grey and Lord Althorp that it was intended by them to preserve in perpetuity the Parliamentary rights of the then freemen and their successors. He must allude to the grants of enormous Ecclesiastical property, which in the reign of Henry the 8th were made to the family of the noble Lord opposite. When he looked to those grants, and recollected that, by them, men originally of obscure and a humble walk in life had risen to the highest stations in the State, when he knew that to those grants the noble Lord himself was chiefly indebted for his present commanding station, and when he looked to those grants which had originally been made to humble individuals and which were now possessed by individuals as humble—he meant the grants of freedom and the concomitant privileges—he could hardly bring himself to credit that a member of a family raised to wealth and eminence by the robbery of Ecclesiastical property could dare to propose the abolition of grants possessed by his less fortunate fellow-subjects, and originally given for meritorious acts of service. Reasonable, indeed, would be the upbraidings of the rich by the poor if the poor man was thus to be robbed of his little grant by the rich man, who held his own grant in safety from all invasion, however less entitled to protection. He felt it his bounden duty to support the Amendment.
 Captain Grantley Berkely  felt it would be presumptuous in him to detain the House after the eloquent address of the right hon. Baronet; but as he had been alluded to he would take the liberty of saying a few words in favour of those by whom he was
 663
 Sir Matthew While Ridley  protested in the name of the whole body of freemen of this country against the sweeping denunciation, pronounced against them by the hon. Member who had just sat down. There had been, undoubtedly, many cases of delinquency on the part of the freemen, for which they deserved individually to be punished; but it was most unjust to ascribe collectively to the class the corruptions of a few. The birthrights and privileges of the freemen had descended to them from their forefathers—they had been earned and paid for by their labour, and ought to he preserved.
 Mr. Thomas Dundas  said, he was the Member alluded to in the placard read by his hon. Friend. He begged to explain, that since the passing of the Reform Act,
 677
 Mr. Lowther  thought the House ought not to attach too much importance to documents of the nature read by the hon. Member for Cockermouth. Such a document ought not to affect the general character of the freemen of this country.
 Mr. Grove Price  complained of the interruption offered to hon. Members who rose to deliver their sentiments on this important Bill, and said he should move the adjournment of the debate.
 Colonel Sibthorpe  was as tired of the Bill as the noble Lord could possibly be; but still it ought to be discussed at proper seasons.
 Colonel Sibthorpe  withdrew his Motion, and the Committee divided on Mr. Lennard's Amendment. Ayes 50; Noes 163; Majority 113. It was then moved "that the Chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again," upon which the Committee again divided. Ayes 10; Noes 167 Majority 157.
 Colonel Sibthorpe  was averse to proceeding further with the Bill at that late hour; and moved that the Chairman report progress.
 Mr. Grantley Berkeley  then rose to move, pursuant to notice, that in future ladies be admitted as strangers into the gallery, in order to hear the debates of that House. The hon. Member spoke as follows:—"In rising to bring forward this Motion, that ladies be admitted to the gallery of the House of Commons, I feel the less diffidence, because I am fully aware that however I may fail in the attempt to render the measure more acceptable to the House, still the cause itself will have an eloquent advocate in the breasts of all those who hear me, which will not fail to throw the weight of its feelings into that scale, which I trust will prove so redundant with favourable opinion as to confirm the boon I ask without even rendering a division necessary. In former times, 1716,  Hatsel's Precedents 638 639 640
 Mr. William Duncombe  thought that hon. Gentlemen should be very careful how they made statements upon the representation of defeated, and consequently, disappointed parties. It appeared to him that his hon. Colleague (Mr. Cayley) ought in common fairness, before he read extracts from a private letter, which for aught the House knew might be anonymous, to explain the grounds on which he made his statement. He thought that his gallant Friend (Sir F. Trench) had expressed only a natural warmth at the manner in which his constituents had been attacked; and from all he had heard upon the subject he very much doubted whether it would be in the power of his hon. Colleague (Mr. Cayley)to prove the charges he had brought forward. At all events the House ought to pause before it lent its attention to such  ex parte
 Mr. William Duncombe : If that association had any think to lay before Parliament it ought to have been in the form of a petition.
 Mr. John G. Ponsonby  moved, pursuant to notice, as a proviso, "that the children of all freemen born before the 5th of June, 1835, and also all apprentices in boroughs, shall have and enjoy all the rights and privileges to which they would have been entitled but for this Bill, excepting the right to vote for Members of Parliament." The few observations of the hon. Member in support of his motion, were inaudible in the gallery.
 Lord Francis Egerton  said, that as he had not hitherto expressed his opinion on this subject, he would take the liberty of following the right hon. Gentleman. He had no hesitation in saying that the noble Lord's speech was a train of sophistry which was utterly unworthy of any leader of a party in that House. He held this opin-
 666
 Lord John Russell  opposed the Amendment, on the same grounds as he had opposed the previous Amendment of Mr. Praed.
 Lord John Russell  maintained that the interference with the privileges of freemen referred to by his noble Friend who had just sat down, was strictly in accordance with the principles of the Municipal Reform Bill. The Clause in question was necessary to secure the due working of that measure, and it could not therefore be said with justice, that an insertion was a departure from the principle of it.
 Lord John Russell  remonstrated against the proposition. The hon. and gallant Member must be aware that the state of the public business was such as to render it highly expedient to get through this Bill with as little delay as possible.
 Lord John Russell  without entering into any arguments, said, he must oppose the Amendment.
 Lord John Russell  said, that in moving that the Bill be then recommitted, it was not his intention to go into any of the details of it. All that he wished to state was, that the recommittal of the Bill would afford a more convenient opportunity of introducing the Amendments of which notice had been given, than could possibly occur in the bringing up of the Report. He trusted, therefore, that those hon. Gentlemen who had given notice of Motions on the bringing up the Report would bring them forward in Committee; or, if not prepared to take that course, would allow the Report to be received and bring them forward on the third reading. Upon that understanding he would move that the Bill be recommitted. 646
 Lord John Russell  said, that the hon. Member for Evesham might state his objections to the principle of the Bill on the third reading.
 Lord John Russell  would not enter at length into the subject of the Amendment, having on a former occasion stated his reasons for refusing his assent to the proposition. He would state drily and simply what he took to be the natural consequences of the plan, without any attempt at that kind of beautiful declamation and pretended sympathy for the rights of the poor which had been tonight poured forth with a degree of gratuitous kindness as singular as it was unnecessary. Those who thought that the poor did not possess sufficient influence in the election of Members of that House, should support the Motion of the hon. Member for Southwark (of which he was far from approving) for household suffrage, because then, with all the advantages of conferring the franchise upon the humbler classes, we should not have the constituencies so liable to bribery and corruption as when the right of voting was given to small and separate bodies of the poor. The hon. Member for Worcester asked "Why interfere with the Parliamentary franchise in a Bill for Corporate Reform? His answer was, that they did not interfere with it by any such provision as the hon. Member supposed. Ministers brought in a Bill to establish good Municipal Government, and with that view, instead of the rights of freedom now arising out of birth, apprenticeship, &c, they proposed to establish a new and different right, in consequence of which, after a certain time, freemen, according to the old system, would no longer exist, and there would be no persons so qualified to exercise the privilege which those freemen had enjoyed. There were three modes of adjusting the question—first, (that which had been adopted), by saying there should be one right of voting for corporate bodies under the present Bill, and another and a different right in conformity with another act, by which persons were qualified to vote for Members of Parliament. By adopting this method, we established a good body of electors for corporate purposes, and also obtained a good body of voters for Members of Parliament. There was another mode of proceeding on the principle, that the new burgesses created by the present Bill should also have a right of voting in elections of Members of Parliament concurrently with the 10 l. 655 l. l.
 Lord John Russell  would not enter into the subject of debate, but he really meant to oppose the Motion of the gallant Member. If it were the intention of the House to admit ladies into the gallery to hear its debates, the House was competent to fulfil that intention directly, without the intervention of a Committee, and he should therefore give a direct negative to the Motion.
 Lord John Russell  said, that it had been agreed on Tuesday night, that the Select Committee upon the Petitions relating to the city of York and borough of Yarmouth should be appointed to day. He had been asked both by the hon. Member for Ipswich (Mr. Wason) and the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) to propose the Members of the Committee: he had replied that the duty was unpleasant, and that he had undertaken it unwillingly in the Ipswich case, but he did not on that account intend to decline it. In selecting the names, he had thought it better not to be guided by the suggestion of the hon. Member for Ipswich, but to adhere to the rule he had laid down to himself in the Ipswich case,—namely, that of appointing Members who had taken no active part in the discussion. He could not concur with the hon. Member for Ipswich that the Members connected with York and Yarmouth ought to form part of the Committee; but he was inclined to agree with his noble Friend, the Member for Liverpool (Lord Sandon) that such individuals would be open to suspicion, and could not so well resist influence and solicitation. He intended that the number should be more limited than in the Ipswich case, and that the Committee
 635
 Lord John Russell  begged to state in a few words, the course he meant to propose with respect to the Municipal Corporations Bill. He found that it would be absolutely necessary that he should move that the Speaker do leave the Chair, in order that the proposed Amendments should be considered and agreed to in a Committee of the whole House. It was a matter of difficulty to make out some of these Amendments, many of which were merely verbal, although others were substantive; and it would be exceedingly inconvenient for the House itself to go through them all. He wished to propose, therefore, that all the Motions which had been given notice of on the Report should be made on the third reading of the Bill. It was his intention to move, that the Bill be recommitted, and on the resumption of the House, that the Bill, as amended, should be printed and taken into consideration tomorrow. In order to enable him to do so as soon as possible, he requested as this was a day on which notices preceded Motions, that hon. Members, who had on the paper notices of Motions which might, without disadvantage, be deferred, would consent so to defer them, in order to allow of the recommitment of the Municipal Corporation Reform Bill.
 Lord John Russell  replied, that on bringing forward the Bill he had endeavoured to state as distinctly as he could the grounds of the measure. He had proposed the second reading as usual. It was not his fault that he had not on that occasion answered any objection to the Bill, because—no objections had been made against it. Either on the bringing up of the Report or on the Motion for the third reading, it would be competent to the hon. Baronet, the Member for Bristol, to state in detail the whole of the objections which he entertained to the principle of the Bill.
 Colonel Sibthorp  was at a loss to know how Members could understand the principle of the Bill, subjected as the Bill had been at various times to so many Amendments and alterations. He had that morning had a third edition of the Bill put into his hands; and now the noble Lord, after having, from time to time, shoved in various new Clauses, was about to propose further changes. How in the name of common sense were hon. Members to find out all the alterations which had been made in the Bill unless a proper opportunity was afforded them for doing so? Feeling most strongly how impossible it was for hon. Members to understand all the introductions which had been made in the Bill, and the various propositions which had been brought forward by the noble Lord, he put it to them and the country whether the course now proposed was that which they ought to adopt. However insufficiently the measure might be considered in that House, he trusted that justice would be done to it in the other House of Parliament. But the fact was, that the same system had been adopted by the Ministerial bench with reference to all other measures introduced by them. He felt it to be impossible to trust the suggestions and recommendations of the
 637
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that since the question was last debated he had heard no new arguments adduced against the proposition contained in the Resolution before the Committee, for although the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, had that night come into the field he must own that there was nothing in his speech. The right hon. Baronet had accused his noble Friend the Member for Stroud, with having dealt in sophistry; but the right hon. Baronet himself had, in his (Mr. Thomson's) opinion, proved himself a master of that art. The right hon. Baronet had carefully abstained from touching upon the real merits of the case, In the course of his speech the right hon. Baronet dwelt much upon what he considered to be the sanction which the Reform Act gave to the rights of the freemen; but upon that point it was unnecessary for him to interfere with the right hon. Baronet. He said it was unnecessary to do so, because if he were to concede the right hon. Baronet's argument to the full extent, upon that point it did not touch the case. The right hon. Baronet consumed a considerable portion of time in discussing the question whether freemen had exercised their privileges honourably or otherwise—whether or not they had been exposed to open corruption. In his view of the case, even if he were inclined to concur in the right hon. Baronet's opinion in that respect, it would not bear upon the point under consideration. Upon both the points, however, to which he had adverted, he differed from the right hon. Baronet. He thought that Parliament was at liberty to remedy defects in the Reform Act. He thought it was at
 665
 Mr. Harvey  wished to take that opportunity of asking the hon. Member for St. Alban's what progress had been made towards the completion of any plan by which the division of that House might be taken by authority? He was induced to put the question, because many hon. Gentlemen had reason to complain of the irregularity and inaccuracy of the lists which at present went forth to the public; and at the present moment there was no subject in which the public took greater interest, than the manner in which their representatives divided on important and interesting questions. When he said, that Members had reason to complain of the imperfect manner in which the lists were now made out, he alluded particularly to the Motion brought forward by the hon. Member for Ipswich (Mr. Wason) the other night for referring the Great Yarmouth petition to a Select Committee. Those Gentlemen who entered the House only at the sound of a bell, and who took no part in the debate, perhaps had no great reason to complain of any inaccuracy that might occur. But to those hon. Gentlemen who attended a debate of four or five hours duration, the greater part of which, in all probability, had no bearing whatever upon the subject in hand—an attendance which imposed no slight tax upon their time and
 643
 Mr. Cayley  rose and said, he certainly was under some misapprehension when he made
 645
 Mr. Cayley  begged to state that the letter he had received was from an association composed of part of the electors of Scarborough.
 Mr. Divett  would be very glad to avail himself of the first open day to proceed with the measure. The writ must of course be suspended as long as there was a chance of passing the Bill.
 Mr. Robinson  said, the question appeared to him to be this—whether or not, for the purpose of improving the Municipal Corporations of the country, it was necessary to deprive of the Parliamentary franchise men in whom it was continued by the Reform Act} Such was the question, but he begged to ask the noble Lord how it was, that in a Committee upon the Municipal Corporations Bill they were discussing the provisions of the Reform Act? What had the present Bill to do with the Parliamentary franchise. On Motions for the vote by Ballot and Triennial Parliaments Ministers had invariably said, "We can agree to no new proposition, for this reason—the Reform Act was final." And yet the noble Lord advocated so extensive an alteration of the Reform Act as was contained in this Municipal Bill. In supporting the interests of the freemen he had no personal
 653 654
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that he could not allow his hon. Friends on that side of the House, nor the noble Lord on the other (Lord Sandon) to stand alone before the country as champions of freemen's rights and privileges. Let them but show him that the class to whom this Clause referred, possessed any just rights, any rights that they had exercised for the benefit of the people, for whom alone such rights were conferred, and he for one, would be quite as ready to step forward in their defence, as either of his hon. Friends or the noble Lord. They had utterly failed, however, in making out any such case. They had not pointed out one right enjoyed by the freemen in the exercise of which it could be said the public benefit had been consulted. He was afraid that his name might not appear in that black and red list which he saw in the hands of hon. Gentlemen, and which he presumed, was for publication tomorrow morning. He thought there would be a publication—he had seen symptoms of separation for something of the kind; and fearing that his name might not he in the black list, he came forward to claim his share of the unpopularity of the vote just given with his Majesty's Govern-
 675 Opposition cheers. 676
 Mr. Praed  rose, to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice, relative to the continuance to the present freemen of their Parliamentary rights. Since the last occasion on which he had brought forward this Question, he had thought that it would be highly desirable to divest the Question of the difficulties arising from the technical manner in which he proposed to carry the principle into practice, and to lay before the House, in order that they might come to a direct vote upon the subject, the broad and important
 647 l. 648 649 l. l. l. 650 1. l. 651 652
 Mr. Hardy  supported the amendment. He contended, that the privileges of the freemen were of great value to them, as well in a pecuniary point of view as for the honour attached to the possession of them. He could not consent, without any evidence of the necessity of the case, to the spoliation of these persons.
 Mr. Poulter  observed, that the hon. Member for Oxford was the last person in the House who should have so strongly advocated the preservation of the rights of the freemen; because it did so happen that the evidence in the Report found that the corruption in that city, on the occasion both of the municipal as well as Parliamentary elections, was more flagrant than in any
 668 669
 Mr. Borthwick,  in moving his Amendment said, that he knew many instances, (as he had stated on a former occasion) in which the Clerk had discharged the duties of Assistant Clerk for as many as thirty years, and of Clerk for twenty more: he knew one who realized by the office 1,000 l. 679
 Mr. Borthwick  said he had been anticipated by the hon. Member for Oxford; for it had been his intention to move an Amendment on the 6th Clause. [ "Go on, go on!"
 Mr. Borthwick  said, the House would perhaps recollect that on presenting a petition on the subject, he had wished to enter on the principle of this Bill, conceiving that that was a proper opportunity to do so; but that he had given way to the feeling expressed by the other side of the House, that it would be better that he should reserve what he had to say on the principle of the Bill until the opportunity should present itself in the progress of the Bill itself. The purpose for which he now rose was to ascertain whether such an opportunity would yet present itself.
 Mr. Philip Howard  rose to second the Amendment just moved by his hon. Friend, the Member for Derby. In doing so, he was desirous to state the grounds which urged him to take that course. Believing the elective franchise to be a trust which might be granted or revoked by the Legislature, and that the extension of the franchise to freemen in perpetuity, could not be reconciled with enlarged principles of legislation, he had opposed the motion of the hon. Member for Yarmouth. The freemen now voted as corporators. At the same time, it was very desirable in a popular measure like the present, to avoid even the appearance of needless severity. Those persons who had entered on their apprenticeship had, in many instances, paid a valuable compensation, and looked forward with eagerness to the distinction which the elective franchise conferred. They had contributed their labour, which is a poor man's capital. It would be difficult to draw a broad line of distinction between them and the freemen by birth about to participate in the franchise; although he admitted their claims were not quite so strong as that of the apprentice. The attainment of a uniform system would not be very long delayed by the proposed amendment, whilst anything like an interference with a vested right would be avoided.
 Mr. Lennard,  after some prefatory observations, which were rendered wholly inaudible by the general confusion and noise, moved the addition to the 12th Clause of the following words:—"or who shall espouse the daughter of any freeman of any borough, such daughter having been born before the 5th day of June."
 Mr. Estcourt  moved the entire omission of the Clause.
 Mr. Hughes  proposed to insert certain words to prevent the extension of the disqualification to persons who might have received money from charitable funds by way of loan. It was not just that persons who might receive assistance in that way should be regarded as paupers.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  rose amidst violent expressions of impatience. We understood him to refer, first, to the case of Ipswich, in which he maintained that, so far from a gross system of demoralisation having existed, only six cases of corruption had been proved before the late Committee. The inconsistency of hon. Members opposite was not confined to isolated instances. Many of those hon. Gentlemen came into the House upon their reputation for liberal opinions, and their avowals in favour of Universal Suffrage; yet those were the very Gentlemen who now came forward to disfranchise a large part of the constituency which already existed. He would now refer to the title of the Bill. What was it but "for the better regulation of Municipal Corporations;" that said not a word of the robbery of franchise. Then let them look at the preamble, it only provided for the local government of the Corporations, nothing was said in that about the wholesale annihilation of freemen's rights, which, in the city of Oxford, for instance, would reduce one-half of the freemen constituency.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  thought the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), looking at the last division, and seeing that there was a defection in his camp, ought not to oppose the proposed amendment.
 Sir Frederick Trench  rose to direct the attention of the House to certain observations attributed to an hon. Member whom he saw opposite (Mr. Cayley), and which if really uttered by that hon. Member, amounted in his (Sir F. Trench's) estimation, to an abuse of the privilege of speech allowed to all Members of the House within the walls of the House. The observations to which he alluded were made about a week since, and had reference to the borough of Scarborough, of which he (Sir F. Trench) had the honour to be the representative. They were couched in these terms: "Before going into Committee on the Municipal Reform Bill, he (Mr. Cayley) begged to call the attention of his noble Friend below him to the circumstance of the existing Corporations having, since the introduction of this Bill, entered upon the practice of letting out Corporate lands, and other property, on long leases; of course on advantageous terms, and for which, one day or another, they would have an equivalent, at the expense of the interests of their trust.
 644
 Mr. Ward  begged to remind the hon. Gentleman that he (Mr. Ward) had for some time past left the matter entirely in the hands of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He had applied to that right hon. Gentleman upon the subject the other day, and was informed that the right hon. Gentleman had prepared an estimate which it would shortly be in his power to lay upon the Table of the House.
 Mr. Ward  observed that the monotony of the argument resorted to on the other side of the House was exceedingly singular. He regretted the necessity for interfering with the rights of any class of freemen, but he was afraid that the necessity for so doing did exist in the present case. Let
 667 No! s.
 The Attorney-General  did not think the insertion of the words proposed by the hon. Member at all necessary, because, as the Clause then stood, a loan of money would not be considered in the nature of a charitable allowance.
 Sir Richard Vyvyan  said, that he was not responsible for the fact that no opposition had been made to the Bill on the second reading.
 Sir Richard Vyvyan  protested against
 636
 Sir Robert Vyvyan  supported it.
 Sir Robert Peel  thought it would be better to fix some day positively for the purpose of proceeding with the Bill. As two important subjects were appointed for Monday, the Irish Church Question and the Municipal Corporations Bill, perhaps it would be well to fix Tuesday as the day on which the Stafford Borough Bill should positively come on.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the noble Lord having commenced his speech by promising to argue the question, not only briefly, but drily, he thought the noble Lord meant not to draw upon his imagination, but to adhere to facts. However,
 656 657 658 659 660 l. l. l. l. l., l. 1. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. 661 l. à priori, 662 l.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  adverted to the continued suspension of the writ for the Borough of Stafford, and said he must remonstrate against the unconstitutional practice of suspending the issue of writs, except under circumstances of a most imperative nature. He did hope that the noble Lord opposite would feel
 642
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  then rose amidst loud cries of "Question," frequently repeated. The hon. Gentleman assured the House that he was not to be put down by clamour, and proceeded to say, that he could not congratulate the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) on his answer to the able speech of the hon. Member for Yarmouth. It would go forth to the country that the reason for declaring the preservation of the rights of freemen in perpetuity by the Reform Bill was for the purpose of facilitating the passing of that Bill in another place. This certainly could not be looked upon as a fair and statesmanlike reason for such a proceeding. The Attorney-General said that the freemen were three-fourths of their time in gaol. There was a period when the hon. and learned Gentleman would have hesitated before he made such an assertion on the hustings at Stafford. He appealed to his gallant Friend below him, to whom he had succeeded in the representation of Durham, to say whether he had not found the freemen of that place steady and true to principle, and whether he had ever given them a bribe? If, as the Attorney-General had said, the freemen were three-fourths of their time in gaol, were they the instruments which a Government should make use of to obtain a political object? And when that object was effected, was it fair to endeavour to get rid of the instrument—not by open, constitutional, and statesmanlike means,
 664
 Lord Sandon  looked upon the Clause in the Bill to which these amendments referred as an anomaly. It was not consistent with either the principle or general provisions of the Bill; and when, therefore, the noble Lord (Lord John Russell)
 674
 Mr. Goulburn  regretted that the reverend gentleman should have considered him as adverse, for he should rejoice in any opportunity that might be afforded him of setting himself right with his neighbours and the public in a matter of so much importance.
 Mr. O'Loughlin  said, that the lion, and gallant Member for Sligo was misinformed respecting the attack on Mr. Hussey, and that he was under a mistake in attributing it to the part taken by that Gentleman on the Meath election. It arose from other causes.
 An Hon. Member  objected to any such statements being made by a member of the Committee.
 Mr. M'Lean  said, the argument of the noble Lord went upon the principle that the persons proposed to be added would be unable to attend to their new duties. Now, that argument would equally apply to the Town-Council, separated as it would be into different Committees for the better
 703
 Mr. Lowther  supported the proposition of the hon. and learned Member for Exeter, for extending the time in the case of persons beyond seas.
 Mr. Goulburn  wished the House to understand the real state of the question. The noble Lord had stated that the Bill made no alteration in the state of the law at present, or with respect to the power of appointing to benefices. Now, he was at direct issue with the noble Lord upon that point; and he thought he could satisfy him and the House that the Bill did make an alteration in the principles laid down by Parliament; and if the noble Lord acted on principle, and really meant that things as to this subject should stand on the same footing as they did at present, he would not resist the alteration recommended for the purpose of giving effect to the noble Lord's own intentions. The noble Lord was aware that the livings which were in the patronage of Catholics could not be appointed to by those Catholics, but that the right of presentation to those livings was vested in those who professed the doctrines of the Church of England. When the Legislature thought proper to give relief to the Catholics they did continue this restriction on them by the Act of 1829. The right of appointment to any benefice was taken from them; and yet, by the general Clause at the beginning of this Act, the noble Lord substantially repealed that provision of the law. After the passing of the present measure Roman Catholics would have the power of presenting to benefices in their patronage. He (Mr. Goulburn) said, therefore, that if the noble Lord rested on the state of the law at present, he was bound, so far as to Catholics, to conform to that specific provision. But he agreed with his hon. Friend (Sir J. Y. Buller) that, independently of the express provision on the statute-books (of which he thought they had a right to demand the re-enaction), it was not proper that those who professed opinions at variance with the Established Church should have invested in them the right of patronage over that Church. The noble Lord might tell him that such an exception as that proposed would beget ill will; if they were conscientious men, he (Mr. Goulburn) did not believe there
 713
 Lord John Russell  objected to the Clause that it was wholely inconsistent with the preamble and recital of the Bill.
 Lord John Russell  said, that it appeared to him that to agree to this Clause would be to set aside one of the provisions of the Bill.
 Lord John Russell : "I am of opinion that all persons ought to be responsible for the duties imposed on them under this Act, and that there ought not to be imposed on them other duties, for which they will not be immediately responsible. I think this is the fault of the hon. Member's Amendment. We propose that the Town-Council shall appoint a certain number of persons as trustees of the charities in the borough—that it would make it their especial duty to take care of the interests confided to them in that capacity, and they would be amenable for neglect of duty or breach of trust. It is proposed to add to these the "Recorder and the Magistrates of any such borough." Now these, having other duties to perform, and qualified in a much different manner, would be much more likely to neglect the duties which the hon. Member proposes to throw on them, because engaged in other duties, and considering, naturally, that these were not immediately under their superintendence. We should put them into the situation of being personally liable to duties for which they were not personally hound, and reduce that species of security which is the best in all such cases—viz., the pointing out the exact persons to whom you propose the intrusting those duties, and the holding these, and these alone, personally responsible for the due performance of them. This consideration appears to me a sufficient reason for not agreeing with the hon. Member's Amendment, and, though I am as anxious as he is to separate all charities from political purposes, I feel bound to oppose it."
 Lord John Russell  was understood to say, that the period of the 25th October, 1835, had been fixed, because at that time the old Corporations would cease to exist, and the new Councils would come into being. To the general extension of the time, he was not disposed to assent; but to some proviso, reserving the rights of persons absent beyond seas, he should have no objection; with respect to the other Clause, compelling the sale of freemen's rights of property, he did think that some such power ought to be given to the new Council, with a view to the general interest.
 Lord John Russell  remarked that the case which the hon. Member for Oxford had stated was certainly a hard one. But it was impossible, in a measure of this kind to legislate for particular instances. Moreover, he must observe, that if the individual alluded to was remarkable for his benevolence and wisdom, the Town-Council would certainly pay some attention to his recommendations.
 Lord John Russell  thought that such a Clause would be improperly introduced in such a Bill as the present; and that it would be contradictory to several enactments of the Bill. The Bill gave no additional power to Dissenters—the principle was already by law established, and there were at present some Corporations in which they had a decided majority. Ecclesiastical endowments would only be disposed of in the same manner under the Bill as at present: if, therefore, they introduced such a Clause it would be without any immediate necessity, and it was placing the disability on religious grounds. He was not fond of introducing religious tests, and he was afraid that so far from strengthening the Church of England they would weaken it, by introducing restrictions which had been recently abolished. The greatest danger would result, in his opinion, from conferring peculiar advantages upon those of the Council who might happen to be members of the Church of England. Nothing could be worse than that there should be a corporate body of twelve—six of whom should have the power to dispose of Church livings, and the other six, being Dissenters, should be excluded from any participation in that power:—they would naturally say you have an opportunity of benefiting your friends, of which we are deprived. For his part he did not see that such security was necessary; there was none now, and it was possible for a man, although he might not agree with all parties
 712
 Lord John Russell  said, that although he felt justified in proposing that the power of granting alehouse licences, which had been enjoyed by the county Magistrates ever since the time of Edward 6th, should be taken away in certain cases, yet he was not prepared to do so in all cases. He was of opinion that in the larger boroughs, those persons who would be chosen members of the Council would be of sufficient weight and consideration, and would have a sufficient degree of responsibility imposed on them, to allow of their exercising the power of granting licences without the intervention of the Magistrates; but he could not agree that the same argument held good with respect to the members of the Council in the smaller boroughs. He had endeavoured to carry the improved principal as far as it was proper; but he was not disposed to give any great powers to the Councils of small and insignificant towns. He thought it would be better to leave these towns under the jurisdiction of the county Magistrates. He, therefore, begged his hon. Friend not to persist in the Amendment he had now proposed.
 Lord John Russell : I have moved the Order of the Day for the Committee on the Corporations Bill: but if the hon. Member for Middlesex proposes to go into those transactions at Belfast, and into Orange Societies generally, I apprehend that others will be desirous of taking part in the discussion, and the delay will be much greater than he anticipates. If he persists, I might as well at once defer the further proceeding on the Municipal Corporations' Bill till next week.
 Colonel Perceval : I rise to order; there is a Question before the House, to which what the hon. Member for Middlesex says has no reference. If he makes a motion without notice it will be my duty, and that of other Members to counteract his  ex parte
 Colonel Perceval  agreed with the hon. Gentleman in thinking that absenteeism was a very great evil, but he must at the same time say, that until the country was brought into a state of some tranquillity, until agitation had ceased to prevail to its present most dangerous extent, it was impossible to expect that anybody who had the means of living elsewhere would consent to live in the greater part of that country. His hon. Friend knew that an English gentleman who had for some sixteen years retained extremely liberal opinions, had come to settle in the county of Meath, had brought a steward from Norfolk to superintend the agricultural improvements upon his property, and had authorized him to advance small sums of money to such of the tenants as needed such assistance. No man was more distinguished than that English gentleman for his opposition to what was falsely called the ascendancy party in Ireland—no man could have been more popularly liberal in his opinions; but how did all this end? In 1831 he presumed to give his election influence to Sir Marcus Somerville, a gentleman who, like himself, was remarkable for his extremely liberal principles, but who had nevertheless not found favour in the eyes of those who had brought in no small degree the representation of Ireland under their own control. In consequence of this gentleman's supporting Sir Marcus Somerville, who would not consent so be dictated
 694
 Mr. Lawson  deprecated the principle of giving the power of licensing to the Town Council in any borough. He begged to repudiate, in the strongest terms, the attack which had been made upon the Magistrates of the country; it was a gross libel.
 Mr. Lawson  rose to move a proviso, which he hoped would meet with the noble Lord's approbation. As the Clause then stood, the Town-Council were to be invested with the whole power of licensing. He wished to know now any individual could bring his action, having been refused, against the Council of any borough within the Act. The proviso he meant to propose was, to provide that the Corporate Funds might not be used in defending the action against any such individual, that he might have a fair chance against any Magistrate of the Town-Council by whom his license might have been refused. It provided, "that no Corporate Funds be ever applied to paying any penalties to which any Town-Council or Town-Clerk may be justly liable in any action or suit, or to the paying of any costs pending any action or suit, brought against them or him for the recovery of such penalties."
 Mr. Arthur Chichester  defended the conduct of the Magistrates, and contended
 700
 Mr. Charles Buller  was quite willing to admit that the attack was a libel on the principle of the English law—but the greater the truth the greater the libel. The Lord-lieutenants jobbed in the appointment of the Magistrates, and the Magistrates jobbed in the discharge of their duty. He would prefer taking the power of licensing from the Magistrates in all cases.
 Sir John Yarde Buller  rose to move the insertion of a Clause depriving the Dissenting Members of Town-Councils from disposing of Church patronage. Under the Bill it was to be expected that numerous Dissenters would be elected Councillors; and in cases where the boroughs were possessed of property they would become possessed of the power of disposing of that property; including, of course, the power of disposing of Church patronage. The principle on which he ventured to propose the Clause was this. He did not think it useful that Dissenters should have any interest whatever in the management of the Established Church. And he found, on reference to a former Act, that he was not asserting a new principle. The 5th Geo. 4th (the Church Bill) provided that the members of the Church of England were to have the management of the Church property. And the 10th Geo. 4th (Catholic Relief) prohibited any Member of the Catholic Church from holding any such trust. He (Sir J. Y. Buller) thought it only fit that Dissenters should be placed in the same situation with respect to Church property as Roman Catholics were. But in stating his opinion on the subject, he thought he should not be opposed by Dissenters themselves as he found they had expressed a desire not to interfere with the management, or discipline, of the Church of England and among others, the lion, and learned member for Dublin, on behalf of the Catholics, had stated a very strong opinion on the subject. It might be objected to such a provision perhaps, that under the law it was well known Dissenters did enjoy the power of holding presentations to livings. But he could not see why the defect of the law on one point should be brought as an argument against remedying it when they had the means. The Committee of the Town-Coun-
 710 711
 Mr. Maclean  rose and said, that at the request of his constituents, he had given notice of his intention to move to add a proviso to this Clause, with a view to relieve them from a very disagreeable and troublesome ceremony. It had long been the custom for the mayor of Oxford, previously to entering upon his office, attended by sixty-two of the burgesses of the city, to appear before the Vice-Chancellor of the University at the high altar of St. Mary's-Church, and there to take an oath to observe all the customs and privileges of the University. Now this had always been felt to be a serious grievance by the citizens, and he earnestly hoped the House would now relieve them from it. It had always been his desire to maintain
 704
 Mr. Maclean , in reply, said, that he should be very happy to leave the question to the consideration of the University itself, for he was sure that they would look at it in a liberal spirit.
 Mr. French , in reply to the arguments of the hon. and gallant Member, respecting the ascribing of the evils of Ireland to agitation, begged to remind him that misery and distress existed in it, and that absenteeism was their cause long before agitation was thought of.
 Mr. Grote  supported the proposition, which in his opinion would effect a material improvement in the Bill, and prevent jobbing and corrupt practices in reference to licences. The power of county Magistrates to grant licences in the smaller boroughs might easily be rendered subservient to improper purposes, and on that ground he supported the Amendment.
 Mr. Robinson  thought it was idle to argue about effectual relief to the poor of Ireland, unless the House was prepared to apply a compulsory power to the estates of landlords for their support.
 Mr. G. F. Young  deprecated the attack on the Magistracy. He admitted that they had not in every case properly discharged their duty; but he thought the House ought not to condemn their character generally, on a few incidental circumstances.
 Mr. Aglionby  regretted that the noble
 699
 Mr. Henry Grattan  bore testimony to the willingness of the Irish Government to afford effectual relief to the suffering poor of Ireland; but he could not help thinking that no mode of relief would be found effectual which did not compel the residence of absentees, or substitute a portion of the expenditure of their estates in lieu of it. Two facts would prove it to the satisfaction of the House: on his own estate, and on that of the hon. Member for King's County, contiguous to it, there was not a single pauper, because he and that hon. Member resided among their tenantry.
 Mr. H. Grattan  said, that his hon. Friend must have been aware that Mr. Hussey was about to turn out the man and his helpless family who fired at him.
 Mr. Warburton  said, it was matter of history on the Reports of Committees of the House that the Magistrates had abused the power of licensing; and in order that the public might not be thrown prostrate before them, he should vote for the Amendment.
 Mr. Warburton  thought it necessary that at some time a precise list should be obtained; and, therefore, that some limitation should be fixed for the case of persons beyond seas.
 The Speaker : It seems to me that no communication of facts should be made without the sanction of the Committee, but the hon. Chairman was quite in order when he informed the House of the extent to which the evidence had already gone. He did not refer to any particular head of evidence, but to the general course of examination.
 The Speaker : The Question is, that the Order of the Day be read for the House to resolve itself into a Committee on the Municipal Corporations' Bill, and I do not see how Orange Lodges can have any reference to that Motion.
 Mr. Parrott  wished to move an Amendment. This Clause gave the Council of every borough to which a separate Commission of the peace should be granted, power to grant alehouse licences. The Amendment which he wished to propose was to empower the Councils of boroughs not having a Commission of the peace, to grant licences to persons to keep inns, alehouses, and victualling houses in the same way as the Councils in the larger boroughs were empowered to do. He also thought it would be necessary to introduce a Clause specially to restrain the county Magistrates from granting licences in any of the boroughs. He therefore moved, that the words "to which a separate Commission of the peace shall have been granted" be omitted.
 Mr. Parrott , in deference to the opinion of the House, consented to withdraw his Amendment.
 Mr. Wilson Patten : At the next meeting, on Monday, I will take the sense of the Committee on the question whether any of the evidence ought to be laid before the House.
 Mr. Wilson Patten : In reply, I beg to
 697
 Mr. Wilson Patten : As Chairman of that Committee I protest against such an imputation.
 Mr. Hume : Although business of importance stands for this evening, I consider this as a matter of much greater consequence; and before I sit down I shall submit to the House the propriety of taking some measures to put an end to this system of excitement and outrage. I shall be able to show how evidence may be obtained, on which the House can act; and in doing so I shall only occupy a few minutes.
 Mr. Hume : My object is not to raise a discussion now; if hon. Members will but hear what I have to say. A Committee has been sitting, appointed by the House to take evidence respecting Orange Societies, and I find from newspapers published in Dublin, as well as in London, that part of that evidence has been communicated by Members of the Committee. In an Orange newspaper of the 6th of July—
 Mr. Hume : I apprehend that it rests entirely with the discretion of the House and of the Members. I am perfectly in order, for I can move an amendment upon any motion, but it is not my wish to do so unnecessarily. I will move if I am obliged, but I wish to submit to the House whether it will not agree that the evidence taken before the Committee on Orange Associations should be laid upon the Table. When that is done, and when we have also the orders of the Commander-in-chief respecting Orange Lodges, for which I am to move in the course of the evening, the House will be in a condition to decide upon a subject of great importance. The question does not involve ordinary individuals; but, if I am correctly informed, it goes to imply that a person of the highest rank in the country has been guilty of high crimes and misdemeanours against the State. If the House is willing that the evidence should be produced, I will not say one word more now, but the moment it is upon the Table I will submit a Motion. I beg to ask the hon Chairman of the Committee whether the evidence is terminated, and whether it is in a condition to be laid before the House?
 Mr. Hume  rose
 695
 Mr. Hume : I am as anxious to proceed with it as the Noble Lord, and if the House will only listen to the few words I have to say, the matter will be at an end. I deem the subject of so much importance that I am willing to hazard the delay of the Municipal Corporations Bill for a short time, while I direct the attention of the House to some recent events in that unfortunate country—Ireland. By reference to certain public papers we find that Orange Lodges nave been carried to a great extent there;
 696
 Mr. Hume : Then all I will now do is, to give notice that on Tuesday next I will move that the Select Committee on Orange Lodges be directed to report the evidence already taken as to the prevalence and extent of Orange Lodges in the Army at home and abroad, together with copies of any documents for which the Committee may have sent.
 Mr. Estcourt  said, that the proviso appeared to him totally inconsistent with the object of the Act, and if that was the only ground for opposing it, he should object to it on that score alone. But there were other reasons why he did not agree to the proposition of his hon. and learned Friend. This custom had been established for many hundred years, and it had never produced any serious inconvenience. It should be remembered also, that this privilege had been conferred upon the University by Royal Charter, and had been confirmed by successive Parliaments. He denied the value of the comparison drawn by his hon. and learned Friend between the Sheriff and the Mayor. The Sheriff took the oaths for himself, but the mayor for the whole of the citizens of Oxford.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  presented a Petition from the reverend Thomas Dupre, master of the grammar-school at Berkhamstead, in Hertfordshire, complaining of a false and most unjust and slanderous attack made upon his character in a petition some time ago presented to that House by the
 690 Standard l. l. l. l. 691 l.
 Mr. Ewart  objected to intrusting the Magistrates with the power of licensing, on the ground that it was not one for the exercise of which they were not sufficiently responsible, either to the Government or to the people. For this reason he should decidedly vote for the Amendment.
 Mr. Finn  contended that he was justified in offering his opinion.
 Mr. Finn , as a member of the Committee, thought that the part of the evidence relating to the army being complete in itself, might be laid upon the Table without detriment.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  rose to repeat the Amendment which he had before attempted to carry, for giving the Recorder and Magistrates of the boroughs concurrent jurisdiction with the Town-Council, in licensing alehouses, &c. Having stated his reasons on a recent occasion, he should not
 701 702
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  presented a Petition from the county of Mayo, complaining of the extreme distress of the population of the west coast of Ireland, and praying relief to prevent them from perishing, The petitioners alluded to the hardships of seeing their crops and cattle exported, while they were starving; stated that there were thousands without a morsel of daily food and scarcely a particle of raiment to cover them, and charged the landlords of the country with treating them, not as human beings, but as inferior creatures. The hon. Member said, that he had a further proof of the wretchedness of the people on the west coast of Ireland in letters which he had received that morning from that unhappy country. The first he should quote from was an answer by the reverend Mr. Hughes, parish Priest of Achill, one of the
 692 l. 693
 Mr. Ward  said he had been requested to reaffirm the statements in the first petition, notwithstanding the statements of the reverend gentleman. The petition bore the signatures of men of all parties, including that of the rector of the parish.
 The Attorney-General  said, no action could be brought against any Town-Council, in which, if damages were obtained, it would not be a most gross misapplication of the funds of the Town-Council, to apply them to the payment of those damages. He could, therefore, assure the hon. Member that his proviso was wholly unnecessary, as the Corporate Funds could never be applied to such purpose.
 Sir Robert Inglis  defended the conduct of the Magistracy, and opposed the proposition of the hon. Member for Totness.
 Sir Robert Inglis  in rising to move the Clause of which he had given notice,
 707 708
 Sir William Follett  said, that in this Clause the noble Lord had conceded the principle that persons having inchoate rights to the property mentioned in it should be entitled to the full advantages to be derived from such property; but it appeared to him that the Clause as it was framed did not carry into effect the intention of the
 705 706
 Viscount Howick  observed, that when this question was brought forward the other night, hon. Gentlemen on the opposite side grounded their desire for the introduction of some such Clause as this, not upon the danger of Ecclesiastical patronage falling into the hands of the Catholics, but into the hands of Protestant Dissenters. They all knew that, in point of fact, in the great towns of this kingdom, the Catholics were few indeed in number; it was against Dissenters, therefore, that the measure of the hon. Baronet was chiefly levelled—it was of Dissenters that the hon. Member for the University of Cambridge entertained such a fearful jealousy. Now, with regard to Dissenters, what was the state of the law? Not only might they be members of corporations interested in Ecclesiastical patronage, but they might, at the present day, hold
 714 715
 Lord Morpeth : Accounts relative to that transaction have reached the hands of Government, and I regret to say, that it is but too true, that in consequence of riotous proceedings one young woman lost her life, and several other persons were wounded.
 Lord Morpeth  said, that as the hon. Member had given notice of a Motion he should not raise any discussion on the subject. He should only observe that the attention of the Government, in the meanwhile should not be diverted from the most effectual means of affording that relief so earnestly prayed for and so greatly wanted.
 Captain Curteis : I beg to remark that the Duke of Cumberland is at present an officer in the British Army. The hon. Member who has just spoken seems well acquainted with the facts of the case, as regards different regiments; but, as an officer serving in a regiment chiefly composed of Roman Catholics, I beg to say that an Orange Lodge was formed in it without the slightest knowledge of the officers generally; and I do not hesitate to say, that, before it was formed, it was the duty of the parties to acquaint the Commander-in-Chief. Looking at the regiments in which Orange Lodges have been formed, I must add, that the wish seems to have been to excite ill-will and indignation between the Protestants and Roman Catholics. I do not know what may be the precise intentions of the hon. Member for Middlesex, but I beg to say, that if for any reason he does not think fit to pursue this subject, I shall think it my duty to bring it before the House.
 Mr. Ruthven  thought that the impression regarding the forgery of names was altogether erroneous. He had seen some of the warrants, and one objection was, that the Duke of Cumberland, an illustrious Prince, and a high military officer, was made to give his sanction to institutions of which he knew nothing. His Royal Highness was not aware of the use which was to be made of his signature when it was placed in the hands of those who ought, least of all, to have distributed the warrants among the soldiery. Nothing could be more dangerous than to introduce societies of this kind into the army, which was bound to the country by its allegiance, and by its duty to the laws, and ought not to obey the mandate even of the Duke of Cumberland.
 Lord Stanley  hoped that the hon. Member for Glasgow would also postpone to next Session, his measure relating to the University of that city.
 Mr. Stephen R. Lushington : It is amusing to see with what a small mite of approbation the noble Lord is satisfied; the able and eloquent denunciations of the hon. Baronet against the whole principle of this Bill, and the solitary petition in its favour from Coventry are regarded by the noble Lord with complacency, as indicative of a general approval of this measure I do assure the noble Lord, that the great majority of my constituents detest this whole Bill as much as I do, because it is grossly unjust in depriving the freemen of the rights and liberties derived from their forefathers, and will therefore never command the respect or conciliate the affections of any of the freemen of England. The right to elect their chief Magistrate, and to elect representatives in the great Council of the nation, has been enjoyed by the freemen as a chartered right ever since the reign of Athelstan, and has been confirmed by succeeding Kings for many
 755
 Mr. Grove Price  lamented, that with the exception of a few words from the noble Lord at the head of the Home Department, they had heard nothing from Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House on the present occasion. It was not a bare majority that would satisfy the country on this subject—people looked for argument. He had always felt, that on a great question, such as this, the mere fact of representing a large body of freemen was a narrow ground on which to found a speech—it was on the general principle of the measure that he wished to address the House. He objected to the course taken by the noble Lord, who, after having agreed to preserve the political rights of freemen, with a view to facilitate the passing of the Reform Bill, now came forward, and by a side blow destroyed those privileges. If the noble Lord had stated openly the right of freemen were to be abolished, however he might differ from the noble Lord as to the policy or practice of the proceeding, he would have admitted his manliness; but when he saw the freemen allowed to exercise their privileges temporarily for the purpose of smoothing down opposition, he felt obliged to say that he thought the noble Lord did not adhere to sound principles of policy or fair dealing. He always understood the Reform Bill to be a final arrangement—it was so represented by its advocates, and "the Bill, the whole Bill, and nothing but the Bill," was a watchword that rang through the country. Now, however, they found the noble Lord, who had wrapped up, swaddled, and dandled the babe of reform, unnaturally conspiring against his nursling while it was yet of tender age, The noble Lord now brought in his hand,  proh pudor! 771 Question 772
 Colonel Sibthorpe , on presenting a petition from the freemen of Lincoln, had expressed his sentiments on this Bill, and therefore it was unnecessary to trouble the House with a repetition of his arguments, but he felt himself bound to protest against this measure. He spoke his own sentiments as an independent Member of Parliament, and as such he could not help expressing his deep regret at the absence of the right hon. Member for Tamworth on that important occasion. If the noble Lord had not forgotten his duty to the country as a Minister of the Crown, he would never have consented to have brought forward a measure for the total disfranchisement of the freemen. He sincerely hoped that that was the last measure the noble Lord would be able to introduce into that House.
 Captain Chetwynd  warmly defended the Borough of Stafford from the imputations which had been cast upon it. He would have done so upon the second reading of the Stafford Disfranchisement Bill; but such was the noise and confusion in the House, that that Bill had been read a second time without his being at all aware of the fact. He solemnly declared, that the constituents by whom he had been returned for Stafford, had not received a single bribe or reward of any description. The hon. Gentleman proceeded to read passages from the Report of the Committee that had been appointed on the subject, and from the evidence adduced before that Committee, and to point out numerous inconsistencies in the former and discrepancies in the latter. The hon. and gallant Member then concluded by expressing it as his opinion, that there was not sufficient evidence to warrant the disfranchisement of the borough. If he should again have the honour of being returned for that borough at the next election, he pledged himself that if any corrupt or unlawful practices were resorted to, so far from attempting to defend them, he should cheerfully lend a helping hand to bring those guilty of them to justice.
 Mr. Scarlett  said, that he had gone into the Committee on this Bill in the sincere hope that the rights of freemen would be respected, and that a distinction would be made in the extension of constituencies between towns of large and towns of small population; but that since none of these amendments had been adopted, and on the contrary that all had been most studiously rejected from the Measure, he felt himself compelled to revert to his original objection to the Measure, and to declare that the Bill was neither more nor less than an attempt to transfer the powers possessed by corporate bodies from the hands of one party to another, and not designed with a view to effect reform in the corporate bodies themselves. He would endeavour to comprise his objections to this Bill in a very few words. His first objection was, he thought, of itself sufficient to justify the rejection of the Bill—that objection was, that the provisions of the Bill were unjust. What, he begged to inquire, could be more unjust
 757 758 Cheers. 759
 Lord John Russell  reminded the House, that they were now debating the principle of the Bill on the presentation of a petition. Perhaps the shorter way would be to present the petition, and then debate the principle of the Bill on his Motion, that it be now read a third time.
 Lord John Russell  said, that according to this Clause, whenever there was a case brought before a jury with respect to premises which were usually let for twenty years being let for sixty or for one hundred years, the question to be decided would be, whether an adequate consideration had been paid or not for the longer lease; if it had not been, then it would come within the meaning of the Clause to afford the party the option of either giving up the lease or paying full consideration for it, according- to the value of the premises. But in the case of a longer term than usual having been granted, and the parties having given for it an adequate consideration, he thought it would be too strong a measure for Parliament to interfere. Fearing, then, that in the endeavour of Parliament to enforce a remedy for one injustice, it might commit another, he felt it to be his duty to oppose the Clause.
 Lord John Russell  opposed the Amend-
 775
 Lord John Russell  said, that as the hon. Baronet had declared that it was not his intention to go to a division on the third reading, it was not necessary for him (Lord John Russell) to occupy the time of the House with an answer to the speech made by the hon. Baronet. Besides, he had already at such considerable length stated his opinion both on the general principle and the details of the Bill, that it was quite unnecessary for him to address
 751 752
 Major Beauclerk  said, that this was only one out of 10,000 cases that existed
 732
 Mr. Bannerman , in rising to answer the question of the right hon. Baronet, ex-
 736 737
 Mr. Maclean  could not resist the opportunity thus offered him of troubling the House with a few observations. He was aware that it was too late to dispute the principle of the Bill, but he hoped the House would bear with him for a short time. If he could have conceived that the party with whom he had the honour of acting would have obtained nothing more by concession than the immaterial alterations which the Committee had made in the Bill during its progress, through the House, he for one would never have acceded to the second reading of it. For what had they obtained by giving way to the noble Lord on the second reading? Nothing, or next to nothing—for all the propositions which had been made on that side of the House, whether they emanated from the right hon. the Member for Tamworth, or from the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, had been regularly negatived. It was too late now, he was afraid, to dispute the principle of the Bill, but they might ask what it was. When the noble Lord, the Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire (Lord Morpeth) moved an Amendment upon the Address of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, he did so on the ground that his Majesty's Ministers in that Address announced no intention of placing the Corporations under popular control. If the principle of the Bill was founded on the necessity of creating a vigilant popular control over all Municipal institutions, he would ask hon. Members to look at the Report, and see whether they could extract from its pages any reasons for making such a principle the basis of the present Measure? It was a singular circumstance that the only borough mentioned in the Report as being a borough in which the Corporation was prompted by popular
 762 763 764 l. l.
 Mr. Lechmere Charlton  said in opposing the Bill he was influenced only by a sense of duty, and he called upon the
 769 770
 Mr. Edward Buller , in introducing the motion which he was about to make as an amendment to that of the hon. Member for Exeter, said, his object was not to make a speech, but to serve Stafford; and, therefore, he should not detain the House longer than necessary. If he could show
 781 l. 782 s. l. 783
 Mr. Cayley  did not forego his opinion as to the necessity of the Amendment; but seeing the Government and the opposite side of the House against him, he felt that it would be useless to divide.
 Mr. Cayley  said, that there was an omission in Clause 91, which wanted supplying; and he rose to move an Amendment to that effect. That Clause was introduced for the purpose of providing a remedy against collusive purchases, sales and demises of Corporate property, since the 5th of June of this year, for undue consideration. But there were other modes of collusion; and it was in reference to one of these that his Amendment went. The object of the Bill was to get rid of self-elections in Municipal Government. Now, in some boroughs, the practice had been to let the corporate lands and other property only from year to year; but since the
 773 774
 Mr. Divett  contended, that if Amendments like the present were acceded to, it would always be impossible, especially at an advanced period of the Session, to disfranchise a corrupt borough.
 Mr. Divett  was not disposed to regard the Reform Act as a final measure, if it were shown that its provisions could in any instance be altered with advantage. At the present period, however, he thought it would be extremely inconvenient to enter into a discussion involving the whole question of the general distribution of representation. He should, therefore, oppose the motion, although he could assure the hon. Member that, if ever the Question of Representation should be opened, he should be prepared to do full justice to Ireland.
 Mr. Robinson  supported the petition. The case appeared to him to be one of extreme hardship. He did not expect that the Clergy would forego their rights, but they ought to exhibit more forbearance towards the poor.
 Mr. Aglionby  supported the Amendment, because, without some such provisions, Corporations might grant leases for a period of 999 years.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, that the greatest disturbances had taken place in Ireland, from those warrants which bore the signature of the noble individual alluded to. He begged to ask the hon. Member for Cavan (Mr. Henry Maxwell), whether he sent from the grand Lodge five members, under a warrant, to the county of Monaghan, in 1821? They came upon his estate, and a set of greater incendiaries were not to be found in the country. They did the utmost mischief, and ought to have been transported to Botany Bay, They set one part of his tenantry against another, and introduced an alarming animosity that to the present time had never subsided. Had not the corporation-seal as it were, and the signature of the Duke of Cumberland, been sent through Ireland? The hon. Member said, that these warrants were signed by the Duke of Cumberland, but that he was authorised to say that his Royal Highness did not know of their destination. He happened to know an
 734
 Mr. Henry Maxwell  was anxious to corroborate what had just fallen from his hon. and learned Friend. The warrants almost invariably passed through his (Mr. Maxwell's) hands; they were sent in blank, and his signature and those of other grand officers were necessary, and when they were affixed they were forwarded for the signature of the Duke of Cumberland. That being obtained, five or six other names were added, and the warrants were re-transmitted to Dublin, and filled up according to the purpose of the general managing body; but the destination was altogether unknown to his Royal Highness. "I beg leave (continued the hon. Member) particularly to corroborate what has been stated by my
 733
 Mr. Henry Maxwell , in reply to the question of the hon. Member for Meath, regarding a warrant issued in 1821, had only to say that he could not answer him, because he was not a member of the Orange Institution until 1828. He begged to add, that, until he heard it in the Committee of that House upon Orange Lodges, he was not aware that there was a single Lodge connected with any regiment in the army or militia. He might have been deplorably ignorant, but such was the fact. He could undertake to assert, that no forgery had been committed by any member of the Grand Committee. The signatures of the Duke of Cumberland, as Grand Master, were  bonâ fide,
 Mr. Horace Twiss  would not trouble the House with discussing the principle of the Bill; but he must take leave to regard it as a measure which enjoyed the remarkable and unenviable distinction of being the only measure which the present Administration had framed and hoped to carry through during this Session. The Ministry had postponed the Irish Tithe Bill to a late and impracticable period of the Session, and by bringing forward the Corporation Bill at the expense of more important measures had placed the country in a false position. The haste with which this Corporation Bill had been pressed forward was remarkable, whether they regarded the postponement of more important measures, or the different and more cautious procedure which would have been adopted had this been a mere local Bill, either for making some change in the administration of justice, or altering the constitution of a Paving and Lighting Board. In such a case the Bill would have been referred to a Committee—there would have been several sittings—the requisite evidence would have been de-
 765 privilegium odiosum, 766 767 pro tanto, 768
 Mr. Fector  said, that he could not permit the Bill to go to a third reading without entering his protest against the injustice of the enactments. The Corporation of the town and port which he represented were free from charge or imputation; and it was only because they, in common with those of Liverpool, of Bristol, of Leicester, and others, had stood forward in defence of the institutions under which the nation had prospered and flourished, that they were now thus generally attacked. He must, however, content himself with protesting against the Bill, and thus recording his disapprobation of its provisions.
 Mr. Wilson Patten  begged to say, that the evidence would furnish the names of the members of the Committee of the Orange Association in Dublin up to the present time, so that the hon. Member for Meath would be able to refer to every person connected with the institution. As to the time that it would take to print the evidence, he had reason to believe that it
 735
 Mr. Wilson Patten  stated, that, in consequence of what had taken place on Friday night respecting Orange Lodges in Ireland and the army, he had been directed by the Committee to move, that they report on certain parts of the evidence, and that the minutes of the evidence should be laid on the Table of the House. There were other portions of the evidence which were as yet unfit for publication. The hon. Member concluded by moving accordingly.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, he had the highest authority for stating, in contradiction to the insinuation which had been made on Friday night, that the Duke of Cumberland had never issued any warrants for the formation of Orange Lodges in the army. In the only case in which he had been applied to he refused to sanction the application, unless they could procure the consent of the Commander-in-Chief at the Horse Guards. He (Mr. Jackson) did not deny that certain warrants had been signed by his Royal Highness, as Grand Master, but if any of them had been sent to any regiments or portion of the army, it was done without his consent, and without his knowledge.
 Mr. Borthwick  declared himself opposed to the principle of a measure which, like the present, was, as it appeared to him, neither more nor less than naked and undisguised tyranny. He said thus much because this Bill deprived the people of England of rights which they had exercised from time immemorial, for no better reason than because this House had declared it had the power to take them away. No better reason than this had been advanced on the other side during all the discussions which had ensued in various stages of the Bill. On what was the measure founded, too? On the Reports of the Commissioners? Why the House was called upon to destroy those Corporations before the Reports, affecting many of them, were laid upon the Table. At the very moment at which he was speaking, the Report of the Commissioners relative to the Corporation of London, the most important city in the world, was not before the House. He had just heard it remarked, that the Bill did not touch the Corporation of London. He would ask
 760 761
 Mr. William E. Gladstone  had supported the second reading of the Bill, and felt bound by its principle, understanding, as he had done, that principle to be the abrogation of the system of self-election, and the substitution of an open and liberal system of election. Beyond this principle he was not bound, nor did he
 756
 Mr. W. E. Gladstone  said, that as allusions had been made to Liverpool, he would
 784
 Mr William S. O'Brien  moved that the privilege of sending two Members to Parliament, should be transferred from the borough of Stafford to the county of Cork. He said that he brought forward this Motion not only as an Irish Member who felt that his country had been aggrieved in the most important branch of national rights, but also as a Member of the British Legislature, anxious for the harmony and union of the two countries, and convinced that this union and harmony could only be maintained by treating Ireland in every respect as an equal, and by bestowing upon her rights and interests the same consideration which was given to the most favoured part of the United Kingdom. He would entreat English Members in approaching this subject to divest themselves of every thing like national jealousy, or party interest, and to consider it as a great question of international right, which was to be determined solely by the merits and justice of the claim. It had been his intention in an early part of the Session to have submitted the whole of the claim which he conceived Ireland was entitled to make, in reference to her representation in Parliament. He had intended to have proposed a series of resolutions to the effect of giving one additional Member to each of those counties in Ireland, the population of which equalled the population of those counties in England which had obtained, under the Reform Bill, two additional Representatives; and to have bestowed upon five of the largest of these counties two additional Members. The whole number of additional Members to which he should have laid claim would have been twenty-five. He was not sorry, however, that he had failed in obtaining an opportunity of bringing forward these resolutions, because he felt that there were some objections to making so large an addition to the number of the House, although he could not allow that this inconvenience was at all equal to that of
 776 777 l. 778 l., 779 780
 The Attorney-General  opposed it, thinking that the provisions of the Bill as they now stood were sufficient to guard against any collusion on the part of Corporations. The granting of a lease for 999 years would be a complete alienation of the fee. He hoped that the hon. Member for Yorkshire would not divide the House upon his proposition.
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  moved "That the Corporation of Sutton Coldfield be left out of Schedule B." It was not a political Corporation, and was possessed of considerable trust property, which was enjoyed equally by all the inhabitants. Without some such exception, the inhabitants of Birmingham, Walsall, and other districts, would acquire a right to a share in that, property, which would thus come to be divided among 200,000 persons.
 Sir John Rae Reid  thought that as he represented a considerable body of freemen, as pure as any in the kingdom, it was his duty to come forward, and defend them from the unjust aspersions that had been cast upon them by the hon. Members on the opposite side of the House. If ever there was a time to express his indignation at such unfair aspersions it was the present. The attacks that had been made upon the freemen were the most unjust that had ever been levelled against any body of men. When he saw the numerical strength that the other side of the House possessed such attacks were, to say the least of them, highly disreputable.
 Sir Richard Vyvyan , in pursuance of the notice he had given, rose to present
 738 739 740 741 742 743 744 745 l.; l.; l.; l.; l.; l. 746 "Bristol Chamber of Commerce. "Gentlemen,— "It having recently transpired, that since your public sittings in this city as Commissioners of Municipal Inquiry, a communication has been made to you by Mr. H. Visger, on the subject of his evidence, given as a member of a deputation from the Chamber of Commerce, and which evidence comprised statements of tolls on merchandise, payable at Bristol as compared with other ports, I am, as secretary of the Chamber, directed by its committee on local taxation, to request you will have the kindness to inform them whether any such communication has reached you, and if so, that you will favour them with either a copy of the document and of any letter accompanying it, or with such other information as may enable the committee to ascertain the precise nature and extent of such communication, which, it is understood, has produced some alteration or correction of the statements or tables he had previously delivered as part of his evidence. "The application now made arises from the circumstances that Mr. Visger had not authority from the Chamber for supplying to the Commissioners any supplementary evidence, and that he has declined to furnish a copy of what he did transmit, or of his correspondence on the subject; the next resort, therefore, is the Commissioners themselves. I am also directed to inform the Commissioners, that since their sittings in Bristol very extensive reductions have been made in the dock and other local dues, and that these reductions will materially alter the bearing of the evidence which was then given by Mr. Visger, and that if the Commissioners are yet open to receive any additional matter, the Local Taxation Committee would desire an opportunity of supplying it, in order that in any Report the Commissioners may deem it proper to make on the state and prospects of this city and port, the amount or comparative degree of charges should not be treated as exceeding the scale existing at the date of the Report, or period of its publication, or any matter of an unfavourable nature be inserted, which was then in
 747 "I remain, &c, "L. O. BIGG. Secretary. "March 11, 1835. "To J. E. Drinkwater, Esq. "1, Garden-court, Inner Temple, London." "George-street, Westminster, March 21. "Sir;— "I owe some apology to the Bristol Chamber of Commerce, and to yourself, for having so long delayed to answer your letter addressed to Mr. Gambier and myself on the 11th instant. I wished to refer to the manner in which Mr. Visger's communication to us was noticed in our Bristol Report before replying to you, and I had not the immediate means of doing this. You are aware, perhaps, that Mr. Gambier left England for Penang some months ago, which which will explain why I answer a letter addressed to both of us. I conceive that your inquiry is substantially answered by my informing you that we have not noticed Mr. Visger's tables as having been furnished by the Chamber of Commerce, but have particularly specified that they Were compiled by an individual member of it (meaning Mr. Visger). After we left Bristol, Mr. Visger informed me personally that he had caused the tables he had furnished to us to be re-examined, and that in this re-examination some inaccuracies had been discovered which he wished to be allowed to correct. Mr. Gambier concurred with me in the propriety of admitting these amendments. "We have noticed this circumstance in the following note, inserted in the Report. "'After we left Bristol these tables were carefully re-examined, and some alterations were made in them, which, however, affect the general results very slightly. They have been forwarded to us, and are now printed in their amended form. A memorandum on the manner in which they were constructed was sent with them, from which the notes annexed to the first table have been extracted. The memorandum alluded to in this note appears to be the same which is printed in those tables in the reprint of the burgess-letters. I am speaking on this from memory, as I have not the burgess-letters by me. We extracted those parts only which serve to explain the construction of the tables, omitting every thing which appeared to be mere inference or comment. In making this communication through you to the Chamber of Commerce, I am breaking through a rule which we have adopted, of not making known any part of our Reports until they should be presented to the Crown. I hope, however, now that the interval which will elapse before the presentation is so short, that this letter will scarcely have reached you before it will have taken place. I should have had great pleasure in receiving the statements alluded, to in your letter, of the reduction of
 748 "I have the honour, &c, "J. E. DRINKWATER. "To L. O. Bigg, Esq. Secretary." 749 ultra-montane 750 l.
 Sir Robert Inglis  observed, that the noble Lord had mistaken the object of the hon. Baronet in not dividing the House. The reason why the hon. Baronet abstained from that, was, the little chance the hon. Baronet had of succeeding. He believed the noble Lord had likewise misapprehended what had fallen from the right hon. Member for Tamworth, in supposing him to have said that that House was the only place to which they could look for the full expression of public feeling on all great matters of national importance. He apprehended, that at the next registration throughout the country, the democratical party would not receive that support which they anticipated, but that the monarchical and aristocratical principles would gain an accession of strength throughout the country generally. He would say, without fear of contradiction, that if this Bill, instead of destroying all corporations, had only gone the length of destroying the Corporation of Bristol, which was so ably represented by his hon Friend near him, (Sir R. Vyvyan), the noble Lord opposite (Lord John Russell) would not himself have been satisfied with the evidence now upon the Table of the House, and upon which this measure was based as a sufficient justification of it, and yet upon that evidence were all Corporations to be de-
 753 en masse 754
 Sir Robert Peel  asked the hon. Member for Aberdeen to postpone, until next Session, his Bill for the Union of King's College and the Marischal College of the University of Aberdeen. He was not unfavourable to the principle of the measure, and would suggest to the hon. Member that, by allowing the measure to lie over till next Session, the consent of the two learned bodies might be obtained, which was most essential to the success of the undertaking.
 Lord Ebrington  presented a Petition from certain occupiers of land of the Parish of Castle Moreton, in the county of Worcester, complaining of certain proceedings taken against them by the D 731 nullum tempus occurrit ecclesiæ. l.
 Lord Sandon  maintained, that there was a growing desire on the part of the respectable inhabitants of Stafford to rescue the town from the imputation which had so long attached to it. He supported the Amendment.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : That was quite another agument. The right hon. Gentleman's first statement was founded on the assumed destitution of the rector of Collon, left in possession of a large Protestant congregation and a merely nominal benefice. Now, no one contemplated the result to which the right hon. Gentleman pointed. No one could suppose a reserve fund where there was no surplus revenue; neither could any one suppose that a reserved fund was to be created from the union of Collon, without allowing the rector of Collon in the first place a sufficient income for his decent support. It was perfectly true by the 71st Clause their might be a revision of the determination of the Ecclesiastical Com-
 826 R. Peel: 827 l. 828 res prima salutis, 829 830 831 832 833 l. l. 834 l. l. l. l. l. 835 l. s. d. l. l. l. 836 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 837 838 Jackson: 839 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 840 l. 841 842
 Mr. Lefroy  said, he trusted that the House, considering those he represented, would not consider him guilty of intrusion in rising at that period of the debate to offer a few observations on the question before the House. His right hon. Friend (Mr. Rice), however dexterous his defence might have been, certainly did not grapple with the substance of the question; and, in the course of his speech, had answered to a great extent many of the objections which be himself had urged. His right hon. Friend had asked why the Bill should be divided; he would say, in answer, that he desired to divide the Bill, because he did not wish to throw out that part of it which referred to the support of the clergy; while to the other portion of it—he meant that which was intended for the destruction of the Established Church—he had an insuperable objection. He would ask the House whether they were prepared to legislate on the subject, whether there was a surplus or not? If his right hon. Friend, the Member for Tam-worth, had clearly demonstrated that no surplus existed—and that he had done so most clearly, no man could doubts—then his (Mr. Lefroy's) friends had done right in moving it as an instruction to the Committee to divide the Bill, and had thereby given the House an opportunity of retracing its steps, and re-considering an act which was contrary to justice. Now, if his right hon. Friend had established that no surplus existed, was he to be told,
 843 844 l. l. 845 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 846 l. l. 847 848 l., 849 l. 850 l. l. l. l. l. 851 l., l. l. l., l. l. l. l. 852 de facto l. 853 l. 854 l.
 Mr. Denison  said, he had on a former occasion voted for the resolution on which this Bill was founded, for appropriating the surplus revenues of the Irish Church to purposes of education; and having since become acquainted with the information which had been lately made public upon the subject, he did entertain a most unhesitating conviction that the vote to which he had then come was a just and a right vote. The arguments adduced by the right hon. Gentleman opposite had not effected any change in his opinion. While thus assenting to the general principle of the measure, he fully agreed with the right hon. Baronet, that in some points of detail it was necessary to introduce some alterations into it. He asked the House whether it was consistent with common sense, reason, or justice, that after the measures of Catholic Emancipation and Reform were granted, which placed all classes on an equality in the enjoyment of political rights, the Established Church should remain in the same position as that which it occupied before these measures were proposed. He approved of the present measure, because he considered it in many essential particulars calculated to improve the state of the Irish Church. He thought that one of the principles which the speech of the right hon. Baronet involved, he meant that by which the suppression of four or five hundred livings might be effected for the purpose of having the revenues derived from them appropriated to the support of the clergy in other remote parishes—exceedingly fallacious. The principle of appropriation adopted in the present measure was less objectionable than that proposed by the right hon. Baronet, and it followed as a matter of course on the propriety of suppressing some benefices that the revenue should be appropriated by the State. He concurred fully in the con-
 855 l. l. 856
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  then moved, "That the Resolution entered into by the House on the 4th of April, be read by the Clerk of the House." The Resolution was accordingly read as follows:—"That any surplus revenue of the present
 823 824 825 R. Peel:
 Mr. Fitzstephen French  had not risen for the purpose of trespassing at any length on the attention of the House. He would willingly have contented himself with giving a silent vote upon that occasion, had not the statement of the right hon. Baronet opposite, as to the income of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, and the impossibility of their meeting the charge of five per cent, on the tithe composition for the present incumbents in the Protestant Church, rendered it imperative on him to present himself to their notice. The right hon. Baronet told the House—and, speaking from the document he held in his hand, told them correctly—the present annual income of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners amounted to 30,000 l. l. l., l. l. 858 859 History of Tithe, 860 861 862
 Captain Forester  rose to order. He wished to call the attention of the Speaker to the conduct of the hon. Member for Youghal, who sat behind him, which was
 868 Great confusion, amidst which Mr. J. O'Connell rose from the cross-bench, at the foot of the House, where he had been sitting, and took a seat on the neutral bench next the floor
 Captain Forester  was quite satisfied with having called the attention of the Chair to the subject.
 Mr. Forester  said, that he did not in the least intend to hurt the feelings of the hon. Member for Youghal, or to say anything offensive. Far be it from him to have had any such intention. He should be exceedingly sorry to have it supposed that he could have had such an intention, therefore he withdrew the expression he had made use of.
 Mr. George F. Young  after stating, that when the question of appropriation was first introduced he took the same view of the inconvenience and impropriety of adopting an abstract principle as that expressed by the then Chancellor of the Exchequer (Lord Spencer) and that he did not consider that the question was placed in a different light by the proposal of the resolution of the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) in March last, proceeded to say, that he now felt himself placed in a different position, for the abstract principle of the resolution was now embodied in the substantive proposition to be enforced by the Bill. He had never approved of the principle that in no instance whatever was the Legislature justified in diverting what were termed Ecclesiastical revenues from strictly Ecclesiastical purposes. It was certainly a matter for grave consideration when that departure should be made; but when he looked at the state of Ireland, and the circumstances developed in the Report of the Commissioners—circumstances which were somewhat exaggerated on previous occasions but which were now proved to exist to a great extent—he could not hesitate one instant in declaring that he should vote against the proposition of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth. The right hon. Baronet had certainly made a most able speech in introducing his amendment—able he meant so far as it afforded an eminent specimen of intellectual gladiatorship, but extremely defective as a calm and dispassionate appeal to the reason and common sense of the House. He was persuaded that many
 857
 The Speaker  wished to draw the hon. Member for Youghal's attention to this, that in giving the contradiction he had given to the statement of the hon. Member for Wenlock, he had said that what that hon. Member had stated was not the fact. The hon. Member must feel that that was a mode of conveying what he wished to express in language that could not be allowed to pass in that House without observation. The hon. Member for Wenlock had subsequently said, that if he had used an expression calculated to hurt the feelings of the hon. Member for Youghal, he withdrew that expression, therefore the hon. Member for Youghal would no doubt feel the propriety of withdrawing his expression.
 The Speaker  said, if any hon. Member had reason to complain of the conduct of another hon. Member, it was undoubtedly competent for the hon. Member who suffered the inconvenience to complain of it. He could not help taking this opportunity of saying, that many hon. Members who had spoken in the course of these debates had had occasion to complain of the increasing tendency on the part of some other hon. Members to afford interruption, which must be as discreditable to hon. Members who made the interruption as it must be injurious to the character of that House. He hoped, therefore, that after this admonition the debates would be allowed to proceed with that propriety which was due, and without a repetition of that interruption which had been too often afforded.
 The Speaker  said that it was incumbent on all hon. Members to observe that de-
 869
 The Speaker  said, that if the hon. Members who had taken a part in the present interruption of the proceedings of the House should proceed further with that interruption, he should feel it to be his duty to call the attention of the House to their conduct. Expressions had already been made use of which had made considerable impression. One hon. Member had said, that the conduct of another hon. Member had been indecent; the latter had said, that what the former had stated was not the fact. These were strong expressions, and such as ought not to be used or allowed in that House; therefore he had no doubt the hon. Gentlemen who had used such expressions would at once explain themselves.
 Mr. John O'Connell  said, that unaccustomed as he was to address the House, after this very unexpected attack on him, he could not but feel in a state of considerable embarrassment. He must, however, say, that he thought it rather extraordinary that his conduct should have been thus brought before the House on this occasion. He had been in the House since 1832, and he had never either intruded himself on it in one way or another, nor had his conduct ever before been brought into question. Thus much he would say, that in what the hon. Member had said in stating, in his attack upon him, that his interruption to the debates was more than that of others, he afforded him the opportunity of saying, that what that hon. Member had said was not the fact.
 Mr. John O'Connell  said, that after the explanation which had been given, he had no hesitation in saying he regretted having used the expression referred to.
 Mr. Walter  said, he was anxious to state the grounds of the vote which he intended to give on the present Question. As it seemed to be admitted on all hands that there would be no general surplus to give away, a difficulty which he might have otherwise felt was removed. The right hon. Gentleman who spoke second in the debate had imputed the blame of some of the disturbances in Ireland to two of the right hon. Gentlemen opposite to him. Whether these imputations were just or unjust, he knew not; but other causes he thought might be assigned, in which both parties participated; and to the evils springing from which causes this Bill offered no remedy. To those causes he should chiefly apply himself. Ever since he had had the honour of a seat in that House, the incessant subject of its attention had been the state of Ireland. That their attention had been unprofitably bestowed was but too clear, for Ireland was still in as unsettled a state as ever it was; nor did he believe, if this Bill were carried into effect exactly as its authors had drawn it, that it would produce the great object professed, or intended, of placing that country in a state of permanent comfort and tranquillity. It had been said, that those who had not much personal acquaintance with Ireland were incompetent to judge of its wants, or of the remedies to be applied to its distresses; but if so, what had been the use of so many Committees and Commissions on the state of Ireland? Certainly not to inform those who knew it already, but to supply the deficiency of information under which those who had never been there laboured; and if they might look back to the several Reports of those Committees, what would they find assigned as the never-ceasing cause of troubles, but the penury of the great body of the people? It would be tedious to go through the
 863 * * * * * * * * * 864 * * * 865 desideratum 866
 Mr. Nicholas Fitzsimon  rose amidst much confusion, and said that he never trespassed on that House. [ Cries of "Order, order" Chair, chair" Question, question.
 Mr. Nicholas Fitzsimon  rose to move the adjournment of the further debate on this question.
 Sir Robert Inglis  resumed, but owing to the very great noise and confusion that continued to prevail throughout the House scarcely one word could be heard. He was quite confident that the increase of
 870
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that how far he should be able to agree with the hon. Member who had just sat down in recommending the introduction of poor laws into Ireland, or a select provision for the Roman Catholics, he would not stop at present to inquire, but would endeavour to confine himself more immediately to the subject directly before the House. His right hon. Friend who had moved this instruction to the Committee had anticipated every point that could bear on the question except one, and though it might be presumptuous on his part to suppose himself capable of making an addition to that right hon. Gentleman's speech, yet he should at once proceed to bring it under consideration. He believed there had been a great misapprehension as regarded the proportions of the Protestant and Catholic populations, and the state in which those proportions bore to each other at present, as compared with former times. As regarded his own views, it did not signify whether there were ten or 100 persons in any given parish of one or the other persuasion, but it was important as to the opposition that was to be offered to those
 867 Great noise and confusion
 Sir R. Peel : Are not the two parishes in question included in the 860 to be sequestered?
 Sir Robert Peel  addressed the House as follows: 791 792 793 l. l. * l. l. l, l. * †Ibid, p. 547. 794 l. * l. l. s. l., * † Ibid. p. 1398. 795 l. l. * * 796 797 l. l. l. l. l., l., l. l. l., l. l. l. l. 798 l., l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 799 l., l., l. l. maximum l. maximum l. l. 800 l. 801 l. l. 802 803 s. s. d., s. d. l. s. d., s. l. s. d. s. d. l. l. l. l. l. 804 l. l. l. l. s., l. l. s. d. l. s., l. l. s., l. l. l.; l. l. l. d. l. s. l. l. s. l. l. s. l. l. s. l. l. 805 l. viz. l. l. l. l. 806 l. l., viz., l., l., l. l., l. l., l., l. 807 l. 808 l. 809 l. l. 810 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 811 l. l. l. 812 l. l. 813 l. l. l. * l. l. l. l. * 814 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 815 l. l. 816 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 817 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 818 819 820 821 822
 Viscount Morpeth  moved the Order of the Day for the House to resolve itself into a Committee on the Tithes and Church (Ireland) Bill.
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  thought, that under the peculiar circumstances, it would be as well to suspend for a short time the committal of Mr. Keith to the Sergeant-at-Arms.
 Dr. Lushington,  after stating the offence of which Sparrowe had been guilty, and declaring its enormity, went on to say, that still it was a serious question whether this man should be detained longer. He could not but feel in all these cases, that the House was acting in the double capacity of prosecutor and judge, and he thought that instead of proceeding in the present manner, it would be much better to bring in a Bill to Parliament, ordering that offences of this nature should be punishable by a jury and by judges, whose passions were not like those of Members of the House in any way engaged in the inquiry. If he were asked was six weeks' imprisonment in Newgate an adequate punishment for Sparrowe's offence, he should reply not. But if he were asked what he considered was the wisest and most discreet course which the House of Commons should pursue, he should say that they had better not proceed to the utmost extremity of the punishment in their power, but, on the contrary, discharge the individual forthwith. He thought this latter was the course which would best vindicate the character, dignity, and honour of the House in the eyes of the community. He would suggest also that it would be unwise to exhaust their whole power of punishment on the present case; what were they to do, if one of a more aggravated description appeared before them?
 The Earl of Darlington  expressed his astonishment at the course which in this case the hon. Member for Ipswich had pursued. He observed, that it was with extreme regret that he saw any hon. Member of that House acting with that vindictive spirit which the hon. Member for Ipswich was now doing. In no other place but the House of Commons would it be allowed to any man to act as judge, as it were, in his own case. It was not for him to comment upon the conduct of any hon. Gentleman, but he could not avoid expressing his sorrow that the hon. Member for Ipswich should have been tempted to pursue such a course as he had in this instance adopted. He however left it to the hon. Gentleman's own sense of propriety to decide whether or not he thought himself justified in that course.
 The Earl of Darlington  said—I beg to call the hon. Member for Ipswich to order. The hon. Member for Knaresborough did not say a single word to me. Do not speak that which is false.
 The Earl of Darlington  said, he was sorry if he had made use of any expressions which were improper; at the same time, when an hon. Member attributed words to him, or stated that he was prompted, when the hon. gentleman knew perfectly well that the hon. Member for Knaresborough had never addressed a word to him, he could not avoid repelling the insinuation in the strongest terms.
 The Earl of Darlington  said, that he was sorry if he had been guilty of any expressions that were offensive, but he trusted that he might be allowed to say that the hon. Member for Ipswich had first stated that which was offensive to him (the Earl of Darlington).
 The Earl of Darlington  stated, that if he had said any thing which was unparliamentary, or which was offensive to the House, he was very ready to retract those expressions. Having said that, he thought the hon. Member opposite ought, on his part to follow the course which he (the Earl of Darlington) was perfectly ready to pursue.
 The Earl of Darlington  repeated that he was ready to withdraw the expressions which he had used, if the hon. Member for Ipswich would follow his example.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that his noble Friend had already stated, that if he had used any offensive expressions, he begged to retract them. His noble Friend had most distinctly made that admission, and he could not conceive what further apology could be required from his noble Friend.
 The Earl of Darlington  was in hopes that he had made himself clearly understood by the whole House. He was at a loss to know what further to state, to satisfy the House. He repealed, it was not his intention to give offence, and that if he had used any offensive expressions, he was ready to retract them, and that as the hon. Gentleman opposite had also made use of expressions equally offensive to him (the Earl of Darlington), he thought it not asking too much if he called on the hon. Member also to retract them. He (the Earl of Darlington) was ready to make an apology for any expressions he had used, provided the hon. Gentleman did the same.
 The Earl of Darlington : If I made use of that expression, I beg to retract it.
 An hon. Member  on the Opposition benches said, that he had distinctly understood the noble Lord to have retracted all the expressions which were offensive to the rules of the House.
 The Earl of Darlington  said, that the hon. Member in the statement of the facts which he had just made, had seemed to allege, that he (the Earl of Darlington) had stated that which was false, because it appeared to him that the hon. Gentleman persisted in asserting that he had
 884
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the hon. Member for Middlesex had said, that though he had long fought on different sides from him, yet he gave him (Mr. Goulburn) credit for having sincerely entertained the opinions which he had advocated, and conscientiously pursued the course which he thought best. He was ready to give the hon. Member for Middlesex equal credit for sincerity, in pursuing that course which, however dangerous it might have appeared to him, was conducive to the forwarding of those views, which no doubt the hon. Member conscientiously thought the best. But so far from feeling any hostility on this occasion to the hon Member, he, on the contrary, thanked him for having stated what appeared to him to be in many respects, very correct views of the question under discussion. The hon. Member stated that he accepted this measure not as a final settlement of the question, but as a beginning—as an earnest of something to be done for the people of Ireland, the ultimate object which he had in view being that there
 894 "No, no"
 Mr. Goulburn : Then it appeared that the hon. Member would have an Establishment of the Protestant religion, but only wished to do away with all the old bulwarks of the Church, in order to reconstruct them; but what did the hon. Member then mean by this being only an earnest of what the people of Ireland had to expect? What did he mean by saying, that this was not to be the final deduction to be made from the incomes of the clergy of the Established Church, but that it was only the commencement of a series of deductions which were to end in what he said would meet the approbation of the people of Ireland? He Mr. Goulburn) thought that there was nothing to which the right hon. Gentleman opposite (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) more strenuously objected than the junction of measures different in their natures in one Bill. He had frequently been taunted by the hon. Member for doing so, and yet on the present occasion, when his right hon. Friend, the Member for Tamworth, proposed to divide into two separate Bills the two measures of which this Bill was composed, the right hon. Gentleman opposed it. The object of the two parts of the Bill were quite different, and acting upon the Minister's own principles, he called upon them to separate the two objects, and make two Bills. They could place together no two subjects more unlike or disconnected together; and that observation he made, not on his own authority, but upon that of a noble Lord (Hatherton), who brought forward the subject of Irish tithes, as the organ of the Government in the House, in the course of last year. The Noble Lord (then Mr. Littleton), when he introduced that measure, laid down a clear distinction between the realization of Irish Church property in the shape of tithes, and the appropriation and application of that property to any purpose connected with the Establishment in Ireland.
 895 * * 896 897 l. 898 Mr. Knox's Remains, 899 900 901 902 l. l. l., 903
 Lord John Russell  rose and said, that in confirmation of what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Wynn), and from the Chair, he begged to state that the first disorderly expression was that in which the noble Lord had attributed vindictive feelings to the hon. Member for Ipswich, and therefore, he (Lord John Russell) conceived that the noble Lord would pay that respect which was due to the House, and retract the offensive expressions without any condition whatever. The insinuation which the hon. Gentleman behind him (Mr. Wason) had made, that the hon. Member for Knaresborough had prompted the noble Lord, might be offensive to the feelings of the noble Lord, but it was not an offence against the rules and orders of the House. He himself did not see any reason to find fault with the remark made by the hon. Member for Ipswich.
 Lord John Russell  concurred in the view taken by the hon. Member for Staffordshire (Sir J. Wrottesley), and hoped that the debate would be adjourned to Friday next.
 Lord John Russell  said, he could not concur in the view taken of the case by his hon. and learned Friend (Dr. Lushington), that the House ought to go to a Court of Law to enforce its authority. He agreed with the right hon. Baronet, that such a course would greatly impair and weaken the authority of the House. He also admitted, that no good end could be answered by continuing Mr. Sparrowe in confinement, for that his imprisonment had been sufficiently long to deter others from the commission of a similar offence. Without saying what course he should be prepared to take with respect to Mr. Clipperton, he would vote that Mr. Sparrowe be brought up and discharged.
 Lord John Russell  was by no means certain that by taking the course recommended by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Miles) the illness of Mr. Keith would be increased. Under all the circumstances, however, he should propose that the case be put off until Friday.
 Mr. Hawes  said, the Report of the Committee would be justified by the evidence. If anything beyond that which
 874
 Mr. Harvey  could not concur in the extraordinary principle of the hon. Baronet, the Member for Staffordshire. It would be quite time enough to consider what further punishment should be inflicted on Mr. Clipperton, when they had evidence before them sufficient to convict him, if any such existed. For his own part, he would vote for the discharge of both parties, seeing that the House had allowed the most guilty parties to escape. As to the punishment by six weeks' imprisonment, it was idle to talk of that as such, where the party enjoyed every comfort. How different had been the case with the Dorchester labourers. But the labouring classes met with no sympathy in that House. He repeated, that when magistrates gave a punishment of two or three
 878
 Mr. Dominick Browne  had listened most attentively to the Debate, and he well remembered the noble Lord had stated that that which the hon. Gentleman had stated was false.
 Mr. Sinclair  thought, that the House
 872
 Mr. Aglionby  opposed the Motion, Many more innocent men had been kept for a much longer time in Newgate than six weeks. That person had been guilty of great offences against the dignity and privileges of the House, and he should
 875
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that he had not moved any Amendment. He had merely said, that he would oppose the discharge at present.
 Mr. Aglionby,  after what had been stated, would not divide the House on the Question.
 Mr. Aglionby  expressed a hope that the hon. Member for Penryn (Mr. Freshfield) would consent to postpone the further debate on the petition before the House until Friday next. The evidence showed that Mr. Clipperton was not worthy of any favour at the hands of the House.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  hoped, when the right hon. Chairman of the Committee advocated the postponement of the discussion, his hon. Friend would see the propriety of adjourning the debate.
 Mr. Warburton  only understood the noble Lord to have retracted the word "false," and not the words attributing vindictiveness to the Member for Ipswich.
 The Speaker  was understood to observe, that in his opinion the noble Lord had retracted generally the expressions which he had used unconditionally, and without qualification, and therefore he thought the House would concur with him in calling upon the hon. Member for Ipswich to do the same.
 The Speaker  was sure the noble Lord would after a moment's reflection see that he had used terms which were offensive and contrary to the rules of the House.
 The Speaker  stating, that he hoped the noble Lord would explain the observations which he had just made.
 The Speaker  said, that he had understood the noble Lord, on his being in-
 882
 The Speaker  was understood, to say that
 881
 The Speaker  called the hon. Member for Ipswich to order and to explain.
 Mr. Freshfield  said, that even admitting that Mr. Clipperton had been guilty of a crime, it should not be forgotten that he had already suffered severe punishment, even after expressing deep contrition to the House for the conduct with which he was charged. In his petition, he set forth that he knew nothing but what had reached him in his professional character, and that he felt himself bound not to disclose. He begged further to state, that he was as incapable of a quibble as the hon. Member for Ipswich, and he, in the strongest terms that the usage of Parliament would permit, denied the imputation of having placed any quibbling construction on the facts of the case. If Mr. Clipperton were longer kept in custody, it would be a case of the greatest hardship of which he had any remembrance.
 Mr. Freshfield  then moved, that John Clipperton be brought to the Bar to-morrow and discharged. After the intimation given on the other side, he felt it necessary to state, that in his view of Mr. Clipperton's case, it was much less aggravated than that of some others who had been placed at the Bar. Mr. Clipperton had no connexion with the election at Ipswich. He acted solely as the legal agent of the sitting men, and he had refused to tell matters which had come to his knowledge in a confidential manner from his client.
 Mr. Freshfield,  thus appealed to, would agree to the adjournment of further debate on the question, until Friday next.
 Mr. Richards  said, that the hon. Member for Southwark seemed to assume that he and those on his side of the House were alone the friends of the working classes, and as though he were the only person who had ever done any good to the labouring portion of the community. He should be glad to know what good the hon. Member had ever done for them. He should beg of the hon. Member in future to deal with more respect towards those who, with himself (Mr. Richards), at present occupied the Opposition benches.
 Mr. Richards  admitted, that while the noble Lord was speaking he had observed that Clipperton had a wife and a large family, and that so far he had prompted the noble Lord. It would appear, however, that the noble Lord had not heard him, and therefore his observation had fallen to the ground. The noble Lord had said, as he understood him, not that the hon. Member for Ipswich was actuated by vindictive feelings, but that he appeared to be so actuated.
 Mr. Wilks  thought the duties of the Committee went much further than the collection of evidence. They were also to have formed an opinion of the conduct of certain individuals. They had done so, and reported their deliberate decision. It would be ridiculous to ask the Committee to go into the inquiry unless they were prepared to act upon its judgment when reported.
 Mr. Hume  concurred with the hon. Member. He thought they should be furnished with some good reasons for extending their clemency to Sparrowe. When an appeal was made lately on behalf of the Dorchester labourers, who were ignorant, and so far as they knew, innocent men, little disposition was shown to grant mercy to them. He thought, that the detention of Sparrowe until the end of the Session would be a very moderate punishment.
 Mr. Hume  would assent to the request if he did not feel that this might prove an obstruction to the course of justice.
 Mr. Hume  was actuated by no vindictive feelings; he was merely anxious that justice should be done, and that the forms of the House be complied with. After the committal the House might deal with Mr. Keith as it thought proper.
 Mr. Hume,  in accordance with what he believed to be the invariable rule, thought he might move, that the gentleman reported against (Mr. Thomas More Keith) should be taken into custody by the Sergeant-at-Arms.
 Mr. Hume  quite concurred with his hon. Friend, and would move that Mr. Keith be forthwith taken into the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms, agreeably to the Report.
 Mr. Hume  presented himself to the House. The subject had been already so often before it, he said, that it really was his original intention to have abstained from troubling the House with any observations in reference to it; but the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, in the speech he had addressed to the House last night, on his motion for dividing the Bill into two parts, had addressed himself so pointedly to him (Mr. Hume), as one of the difficulties he had to contend with in dealing with the question, that he was anxious to remove from the mind of the House the undue impression which the right hon. Baronet's allusion to his exaggerated statements of the revenues of the Irish Church was calculated to convey. If the right hon. Baronet did him the honour to refer to his speech of 1822, upon the subject of the Irish Church, the right hon. Baronet would find that he was not quite correct in supposing his (Mr. Hume's) estimate of its available revenues to exceed 3,000,000 l. 886 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 887 l. 888 l. l. l. l. l. l. 889 s. d. s. d. 890 l. 891 892 893
 Mr. Hume  begged to explain. If he had said, that there should be no Establishment of the Protestant religion in Ireland, he certainly had not meant to say so. What he meant to have said was, that he wished the present parishes and benefices to be abolished, and new parishes constructed according to the wants of the country.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  concurred in what had been said by the right hon. Baronet as far as regarded Sparrowe. He thought he had undergone a sufficient punishment, and he hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Aglionby) would not press his Amendment.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  differed altogether with the right hon. Gentleman in
 873
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  begged to say a few words upon a matter personal to himself. In the last paragraph of the Report just printed by the right hon. Gentleman, allusion was made to the fact of his having signed a warrant as Chairman of the Committee, which was declared to be unusual and out of order, and which he now believed he had no right to do. The fact was, as he had before stated, that Mr. Pilgrim was travelling about, and could neither be traced abroad nor at home. He had signed and sent off five or six summonses, one of which at last caught. Pilgrim at Norwich, and when he was in the act of obeying it, his portmanteau being on the mail-coach and his foot on the step, he was arrested by the warrant of the magistrates of Norwich. He then, on learning this, after having some consultation but not conference sufficiently formal with the Committee, signed a warrant to have the body of Pilgrim brought before the Committee, which warrant he subsequently found he had no right to sign, as a Chairman could only sign summonses. So far he pleaded guilty. He should have applied to the House, and obtained the signature of the Speaker to the warrant. If he had done so, Pilgrim might have been here a couple of days sooner, and some time thus be saved; but otherwise the course of the Committee had not at all been affected by this proceeding.
 Mr. Pusey  said, that as he was about to give a vote in opposition to the motion of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, under whom he had acted in former Parliaments, and under more adverse circumstances, he trusted the House would permit him to trespass upon their patience for a few minutes whilst he explained, as openly and unreservedly as he could, the reasons for the course he intended to pursue. He found by the Report upon the Table of the House, that in one-half of Ireland—namely, the provinces of Connaught and Munster—the number of Roman Catholics was 3,500,000, being not less than the whole population of the kingdom of Portugal, whilst the number of Protestants who were scattered over the same part of the country did not exceed 150,000, being not equal to the population of Liverpool. Thus, there was a kingdom of Catholics on the one hand, and a town of Protestants on the other. He did not mean to say, that the principle of population was that upon which alone the question of a Church Establishment was to be decided, yet it certainly was an element in the consideration of that Question, and it appeared to him impossible to deny, that in the part of Ire-
 904
 Mr. Pusey  begged to explain, that what he said was, that owing to the minute number of the Protestants in certain districts, no churches could exist there to any good purpose; therefore, it was not desirable to build any.
 Mr. Wason  [ after repeated calls from all sides of the House Repeated cries of "no, no," from the Opposition.
 Mr. Rigby Wason : I understand that the noble Lord has retracted the expression imputing to me falsehood, without any condition. Of course, therefore, without any mixture of reserve or equivocation on my part, I also retract the expression used by me towards the noble Lord.
 Mr. Rigby Wason : I never meant to impute to the noble Lord an intention to deceive the House. I only alluded to the admission of the hon. Member for Knaresborough, in order to show that I did not speak without some foundation when I said that that hon. Member had prompted the noble Lord.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  observed, that on the former occasion, the House had proceeded to commit individuals, and thus far proceeded to punishment without having the opportunity of reading the evidence, and this in cases when there was a doubt as to the facts established respecting the conduct of individuals amounting to a breach of privilege. In this Report, however, a distinct offence was stated; there could not, therefore, now, as before, be a doubt put forth as to the breach of privilege.
 Mr. Wason : The noble Lord had stated that I am actuated by vindictive feelings. I say this is untrue. If that is unparliamentary language, of course as unparliamentary language I retract it. How could the noble Lord possibly know the feelings which actuated his (Mr. Wason's) breast? He knew those feelings, and must repeat that the assertion was untrue. [ Renewed cries of "Order, order," and loud calls upon the Earl of Darlington from the Ministerial benches.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  said, that of course the noble Lord had a right to remark upon the terms which any hon. Member had used, but he (Mr. Wason) in the observation which he had made had meant nothing offensive to the noble Lord. He had certainly seen the hon. member for Knaresborough turn round, and as he thought speaking to the noble Lord while he was addressing the House. If the noble Lord now said that he had not been prompted by the hon. Member for Knaresborough, of course that statement was sufficient and conclusive. What he (Mr. Wason) had further meant to state was this—that when the noble Lord stated that he (Mr. Wason) acted upon vindictive feelings, if he (Mr. Wason) chose to state the noble Lord had said that which he (the noble Lord) knew to be untrue, he should use language which was unparliamentary, but he would now state that in saying he was actuated by vindictive feelings the noble Lord said that which was untrue.
 Mr. Wason : The noble Lord says that if I will do so and so, he will do so and so. That apology I will not accept, either in this House, or out of it.
 Mr. Righy Wason  said, he would vote for the release of Sparrowe; but he thought a distinction should be made between his case and that of Clipperton, who had refused to answer questions put to him by the Committee.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  contended, that there was no ground whatever for saying that Clipperton was less guilty than others. In his (Mr. Wason's) opinion, he was much more so. The statements in his petition were contradicted by his own evidence before the Committee. On this ground, and also on the ground that he had refused to answer questions put to him by the Committee, he would oppose the Motion for his discharge.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  was understood to say, that he had not used any language which could, except by a forced construction, raise any imputation of a quibble as against the hon. Member for Penryn. If he had used any such language, he could only say it was accidental, He believed
 879
 Mr. Wason. —The noble Lord, although prompted by the hon. Member for Knaresborough—
 Mr. Wason  rose, amidst continued cries of "Order" "Chair," but resumed his seat on
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  observed that the noble Lord had in his opinion unequivocally retracted every-thing. The words "vindictive feelings" were certainly of significant import in comparison with other words; but the noble Lord had since made a most unqualified retraction. These words were followed by words of similar import from the hon. Member for Ipswich; and he (Mr. C. Fergusson) thought that, hon. Member was bound to make an equally unqualified retraction.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  said, that as the first offender had retracted, the second ought also to withdraw the offensive expressions used by him. By this course, perfect order and the dignity of the House would be restored and established.
 Sir Broke Vere  moved, that John Eddowes Sparrowe be called to the Bar, with a view to his being discharged forthwith.
 Sir James Graham  said, he was not surprised at the satisfaction which the House had expressed on hearing the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. Though he differed decidedly from the hon. Member, still he was bound to say that he had delivered his sentiments like an independent English gentleman, and having changed his opinions, did not hesitate in a fair, open, and manly way, to avow that he had changed them. 907
 Sir James Graham  said, that the question whether churches could or could not exist advantageously in such districts under such circumstances, involves the question which should be the religion favored by the State in Ireland and the maintenance of the Establishment was the great principle for which they were now contending. But he would deal for the present with the hon. Member's substantive objection, viz., the insufficiency of the resident clergy, and the insufficiency of the glebe-houses; and he would put it to the hon. Member for Berkshire, and urge this consideration upon him, that the present Bill, to which he was now disposed to give his assent, struck at the very root of a measure which was intended to supply, and which could not
 908 909 910 s. d. 911 l. 912 l. 913 914 915 916 l. 917 l., l. l. d. s. d. l. s. 918 l. l. l. 919 l. 920 l. 921 l. maximum l. 922 923 924 925 926 marks of disapprobation. "communia altaria æquè ac patriam diligite colite fovete."
 Sir James Graham : If my noble Friend means to draw this as an inference from what I have said, he has a right to do so; though, even there, I am prepared to contest with him the justice of the inference; but, if my noble Friend means to quote expressions which I used, I have only to say, I have no recollection of having used them.
 Sir John Wrottesley  thought they ought to wait in this case, as in that of Mr. Keith, till they had the evidence of the Committee before them; for it was possible that by that evidence, Mr. Clipperton might be convicted of another breach of privilege, which would justify his being sent again to prison, He would suggest, therefore, that the debate be adjourned to Friday.
 Sir Robert Inglis  hoped the hon. Member would not press his Motion that evening.
 Sir Robert Peel  could not concur in the suggestion of the hon. and learned Member who had just addressed the House. For one, he should be very unwilling to
 876
 Sir Robert Price  said, that as there appeared to be some misunderstanding on that head, perhaps the noble Lord would have the kindness to satisfy the wishes of the House by stating again that which many had already understood him to have stated—namely, that he retracted the expressions which all allowed was contrary to the rules of the House. That being done, he was sure the hon. Member for Ipswich would not for a single moment refuse to do that which the House generally desired—he meant, withdraw the expressions which he also had used.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said it was manifestly contrary to the rules of the House for one hon. Member to charge another with vindictive feelings, or to attribute to him motives in the course which he was pursuing. Under such circumstances he was sure his noble Friend would do that which the House would expect—namely, retract the assertion he had made, and he was also satisfied the hon. Member for Ipswich would, on his part, do the same.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  had meant nothing disrespectful to the hon. Gentleman. The Committee were only anxious to prevent a question being raised in consequence of the proceedings of the hon. Gentleman, or a precedent being established.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, there was great difference of opinion amongst the members of the Committee, respecting the Report, and as to the appointment of the Committee, he considered it to be to save the trouble and the time of the House, which would be the result of an examination at the Bar. The Committee had been directed to report the evidence to the House. What would be the use of this, if the discretion were to be altogether left to the Committee? If, indeed, a witness refused to give evidence before a Committee, or persisted in prevaricating, it was a positive obstruction to the business, upon which they might well appeal to the authority of the House; but "aiding and abetting" in preventing a witness from giving evidence were such general terms, applicable to such varieties of culpability, that before they entertained any question of punishment, he was decidedly of opinion that the House ought to have the evidence before them. Besides it should be known that the decision of the majority turned on opposing testimony, which the House ought to be empowered to judge of from its own consideration. No great loss of time would take place, inasmuch as the evidence might be printed from day to day. He did not mean to anticipate that the decision of the House upon the evidence would be different from that arrived at by the majority of the Committee; but it certainly would be more satisfactory to him, as Chairman, and he should suppose to the country, if the House would be good enough to judge for itself after examination of the evidence.
 Mr. Williams Wynn,  as chairman of the Committee, begged to say, that he hoped the House would proceed to read the evidence itself, before it decided upon inflicting punishment on any individual.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  brought up the Report of the Committee on the Ipswich election, and moved that it be read, which was done as follows:—
 Your Committee have experienced considerable difficulty in this inquiry, from the apprehension of prejudging a criminal charge now in progress to trial by due course of law; but they have come to the following Resolution:—
 
 1. That it does not appear to the Committee, that the conduct of the Magistrates, Samuel Bignold and Edward Temple Booth, Esquires, before whom the said John Pilgrim was charged, was a breach of the privileges of this House. 2. That it appears to the Committee; that Thomas More Keith aided and abetted the procuring and continuing the absence of John Pilgrim, to prevent his giving evidence on the
 871 3. That on Pilgrim's return to Norwich, an information was laid against him for embezzlement, which had the effect of delaying obedience to the Chairman's summons, and his attendance before the Committee of the Ipswich election; but that it does not appear to the Committee, from the evidence before them, that there is any proof that these proceedings were taken for the purpose of producing such delay. 4. That it does not appear to the Committee, from the evidence before them, that any charge is proved against Joseph Sewell John Blake, or John Joseph Blake.
 Mr. Williams Wynn,  if the question went to a division, should vote in favour of the postponement of the discussion.
 Mr. William Miles,  addressing the House as a member of the Committee, informed them that there was something in Mr. Keith's case which might well induce them to postpone the consideration of the question for a short time. A medical certificate had been sent in, showing that Mr. Keith was extremely ill; and about his case there was a peculiar delicacy to which he would not further allude. Under these circumstances it would be most distressing to have him brought up at once.
 Viscount Howick : I was stating what I conceived to be the inference legitimately to be drawn from the argument of my right hon. Friend. I particularly guarded myself against being supposed to quote what he had actually said, by stating that his argument against the Bill, as being only a half-measure, resolved itself into this; I contended, that in urging the rejection of the provisions of this Bill, on the ground of their not carrying into full effect the principle on which they are founded, my right hon. Friend did, in fact, recommend that, admitting the principle to be just, you should resist it as dangerous. Sir, I repeat, that I dread the effect of arming the hon. and learned Member for Dublin with an influence greater than he has already obtained, in consequence of the misguided policy towards him, and towards Ireland, formerly pursued by the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir Robert Peel). I am unwilling to supply him with an argument in favour
 947 948
 Viscount Howick : * * 927 928 929 930 931 932 933 934 935 Edinburgh Review 936 937 938 939 940 s. 941 s. s. s. s. s. Stanley s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. 942 s. l. 943 944 945 946
 Lord Sandon  said, that the difficulty still remained by the noble Lord still insisting upon the qualification to his explanation. The offence of which the noble Lord had been guilty was to the House, and to the House an apology was due, without qualification.
 Alderman Wood  said, that it was very hard, that the progress of so important a measure should be impeded. The Committee up stairs, after they had framed the Bill, had submitted it to the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Home Secretary, who had assented to the whole Bill, except the clause relating to the appointment of Commissioners. It had in consequence been proposed by the supporters of the
 949
 Alderman Wood  said, that for his own part, he had limited the operation of the Bill to London. Its extension to Westminster was determined upon by the Committee.
 John E. Sparrow  was put to the Bar by the Serjeant-at-Arms, and
 The Attorney General  replied, that the question as to the continuance of the tax was not in his department, but in that of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. On the propriety of enforcing the existing law he had no difficulty in saying, that he had taken steps, and should continue to take steps, to secure obedience to the law. Justice to the fair trader required, that while the tax remained, it should not be evaded; it was injustice to those who obeyed the law, if those were not punished who disobeyed it. If the hon. Member for Worcester would point out to him any individuals, high or low, without respect of persons, who offended, he would instantly put the law in force against them.
 Lord Stanley  was understood to ask, what was the ground of the Act of Parliament that settled Strathfieldsaye on the Duke of Wellington?
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, that the Duke of Wellington might forfeit the property given to him by the public will; and that Parliament might take it away from him.—[ Cheers from the Opposition.
 Lord Stanley,  interrupting the noble Lord, handed across the Table to him a volume containing some report, said if the noble Lord would read the particular passage he pointed out, the noble Lord would find that he was incorrect.
 Lord Stanley  said, that he should perhaps better consult the feelings and wishes of the House, by abstaining from addressing it on that occasion after a discussion of three nights, and after the subject had been so fully, so ably, and so zealously discussed on a former occasion during seven nights, for at that time the principle under consideration was, he thought, nearly similar to the present, though the evils to be apprehended were certainly not of that imposing and exciting nature which the present Bill was well qualified to produce. Yet, notwithstanding the discussions that had taken place, and the complete development of the tendency, character, and object of the Bill, he, holding such opinions as he did, and was known to hold, and identifying himself so anxiously with the question of the Church Establishment, should consider it unfair to his own character, and not perhaps be in accordance with the expectation of many Members of the House, if he should give a silent vote on the proposition submitted by the right hon. Baronet, because although there were many schemes propounded, many suggestions thrown out for reform in the Church, he considered that proposition was the only safe and practicable proposition for allaying, in the first place, whatever discontent and animosity was entertained against the Established Church, whether that discontent and animosity were the result of the abuses and imperfections of the Establishment, or were created by the instrumentality of designing, adventurous, and selfish enemies to it; and, in the second place, for placing it on that high and stable ground of utility and permanency that was at once conducive to the cause of religion, morality, and good order. That proposition he, for one, would cordially support, because it was a wise, a beneficial, a statesmanlike proposition—it was a proposition of peace and of public benefit, and because he was resolved to resist at all hazards what
 1032 1033 1034 1035 No. Morpeth: 1036 1037 l. l. 1038 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. Morpeth 1039 l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1040 l. l., l., l. l. l. 1041 Morpeth: 1042 l. l. l. l. l. 1043 1044 l. l. l. l. 1045 1046 1047 l. 1048 No, no! No, no! 1049 1050
 Mr. O Connell  rose amidst loud cries of "Question," and "Go on." He said, if hon. Gentlemen would listen to him for a few minutes, he promised to sit down the moment they expressed their disinclination to hear him further. He should not go into any details on the question, for these were already fully before the House; but he said at once that one of the worst things which they could do for Ireland was to reject this measure. What was the real question before them? The House, which had been called together under the auspices of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, who had declared himself hostile to the great principle of the measure, the House had resolved that the Irish nation should participate in the advantages of that which was national property. That declaration had raised the hopes of the people of Ireland. He implored the House then to pause and consider the fatal consequences which must inevitably result from the rejection of the measure, not only to the empire generally, but to the hon. Gentlemen opposite, on whose actions and on whose course of proceeding alone, the consequences of that rejection must rest. The hopes of the Irish people had been raised; anticipations of the redress of long existing and heavy wrongs had been excited in their bosoms; they were taught, for the first time, to feel that their brethren in England had awakened to a sense of the demand they possessed on their sympathies and kindly feelings. He entreated the House not to cast lightly away the good effects which this impression had already produced. Tranquillity and peace had even now been in a great measure restored. The Judges in the southern and western parts of the country had compli-
 1059 1060 l. l. 1061 1062 l. s. l. s. l. s. l. l. s. l. s. l. s. 1063 l. l., 1064 The last rose of summer Left blooming alone; All its lovely companions Were faded and gone! 1065 l. l. l. l. 1066 1067
 Lord John Russell  was sure, after the length to which the discussion had been carried during a debate of three days, that the House must be anxious to come to a decision, and manifest its opinion respecting the question before it. He should therefore, state his view of it in as brief a compass as he could. It was not his intention to follow his noble Friend through all the details of his speech; and parts of it which, for the present at least, he should not touch, though, perhaps, he might advert to them hereafter, he alluded more particularly to the latter part, in which, his noble Friend trenched on the Orders of the House, and used language which certainly was not parliamentary. In justice to the King's Government, of which he had the honour to he a Member, he must say, that they had brought forward this question soberly, calmly, and after long and serious deliberation; considering that it was necessary for the settlement of a long-disputed question—considering that it was a measure necessary for the peace of Ireland—considering that it was necessary for the security of the Established Church in that country, and for the advancement of religion itself. Acting upon these views, and entertaining these opinions of the measure, it was not for his Majesty's Ministers to say, whether there might be in that, or in the other House, such a number of Members adverse to the measure, as might be able to defeat it. If Ministers believed the measure to be required for those great objects which it was their duty to consult, if they entertained an honest and a conscientious opinion of its propriety, it was not for them to shrink from the assertion of their opinion,
 1051 1052 1053 1054 1055 l. l., l. l. l. l. l. 1056 l. l. l. 1057 1058
 Mr. Robinson  took occasion to ask the Attorney General whether it was the intention of Government in the existing state of the law to suppress an open violation of it in the metropolis. He gave no opinion on the propriety of the tax upon newspapers, farther than to say, that he had always supported the repeal of this and all other taxes obstructing the dissemination of useful knowledge; but while the law remained unaltered, as prosecutions had been instituted against inferior offenders the publishers of penny magazines and others, he thought it unfit that greater offenders (and he was told that some great persons were implicated) should be allowed to escape altogether.
 Mr. Warburton  was of opinion that, in conformity with the decision of 1830, it would be sufficient to have the name of the maker stamped on the weights and measures.
 The Speaker  addressed him as follows:—"You have been guilty of a Breach of the Privileges of this House, by aiding and abetting witnesses, who absconded, in order that they might not be required to give evidence before a Committee appointed to try the merits of a petition complaining of an undue return for the borough of Ipswich. The practice and experience of your profession must have made you acquainted with the character and consequence of your offence, the commission of which you have admitted. No doubt you would have felt great and just resentment against any one who had withdrawn a material witness, by the means of whose testimony the rights of one of your clients were injuriously affected: you must consequently feel how just and how natural it is that this House should visit, with marked severity, the offence of which you have been guilty, in withdrawing testimony essential to the vindication of the rights of the constituency of Ipswich, and the purity of election. The confinement you have suffered has, no doubt, been attended with inconvenience—perhaps with pecuniary loss; but that which you ought most acutely to feel, is the consciousness that you have incurred the merited displeasure and censure of this House. You and those who may be admonished by your case, will henceforth know that this House possesses powers to enforce obedience to its authority, and that it is invested with privileges for the benefit of the people, which it asserts with firmness and justice. I have now to acquaint you that you are discharged on payment of your fees."
 Mr. Hume  presented a Petition signed, as he stated, by nearly all the printers in London, and forming a volume, praying the repeal of the taxes on knowledge, such as the stamp duty upon newspapers, the duty upon
 952
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  was aware after the eloquence and ability displayed by the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down, that he had nothing to offer to the consideration of the House which would entitle him (Mr. Sergeant Jackson) to its indulgence, on the same principle that it had listened, he was sure with pleasure and delight, to the oratorical display of the hon. and learned Member. However any Member of this House might differ with that hon. and learned Member on the view which he had taken of this subject, no person could withhold from him the praise of having supported his opinions with great eloquence and great ability. But though in that respect he (Mr. Sergeant Jackson) could not follow the example of the hon. and learned Member, yet it should be his duty—and in discharging it he had to claim the indulgence of the House—to bring back its attention to the sober consideration of a few matters of fact—to the real merits of the question now before it. But in the first place he must be permitted to address himself to a few points adverted to by the hon. and learned Member. He thought that the hon. and learned Gentleman stated that the principle which was
 988 989 990 991 l., l. l. l. l., l. l., l. l. l., 992 l., l. l. l. l. Sheil Ward 993 994 995 996 997 998 l. An hon. Member on the Ministerial side here called on the hon. Member to stale the number of the Protestant congregations in Ireland. cheers 999 
 
 Parishes No. of Protestants. 
 1831 1834. 
 Ballyhaigue 41 96 
 Castle Island, four parishes 252 294 
 Dromod 32 49 
 Kilcashan 129 164 
 Kilgobbin 87 102 
 Kilnaughten 531 562 
 Dingle 228 249 Loud cheers from the Opposition. 1000 
 
 Parishes No. of Protestants. 
 1831 1834. 
 Ennismagrath 454 483 
 Ballygarth 23 42 
 Carlow 1,409 1,755 
 Clonfert, West 1,021 1,121 
 St. Peter's 486 592 
 Borishoole 455 497 
 Abbey Strowny 210 246 
 St. Mary Standon 1,564 1,666 
 Achill 76 156 l. 1001 cheers s. d. 1002 1003
 Mr. Potter  considered the proposed duty of 20 s. s. s. s. d.
 Mr. Sheil  said, that the hon. Baronet who had designated himself as the representative of the intelligence of Protestant Ireland, and afforded such proofs of his capacity to fulfil the functions which he was deputed to discharge, had in the conclusion of his speech, contradicted the commencement. The hon. Baronet had referred to a powerful party by which the Government were supported, and yet in the outset he had spoken of the Irish Whig Members in a tone of depreciation. Surely the hon. Member must know that not only were they the great majority of the Irish. representatives, but that there were many, very many among them who enjoyed large possessions, and were men of station equal to that of the hon. Baronet; and, after all, must he not feel, that whatever might be their individual qualifications, their votes were of weight—that their numbers were not likely to decrease (quite the reverse), and that it was for serious consideration, whether it would long be possible to withstand the adjurations for justice which they addressed to the House of Commons. He must say, that he approved of this Bill because it contained a great principle—that principle of which the germ was to be found even in the Temporalities' Bill, and which the noble Lord opposite had had the merit of establishing. [Lord  Stanley: 975 Stanley: de facto, 976 977 l. l., 978 l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 979 l. l., l. 980 l. l. l. l. l. 981 982 983 984 l. l. 985 l. 986 987
 Mr. Robert Steuart  said, that both the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Home Secretary, were in attendance till two o'clock on the former morning sitting, when this Bill was fixed to come on; this morning, neither of them had any idea that it would come on. He thought, however, that it would not be competent in the House to proceed with this Bill at present.
 Mr. Estcourt  objected to it so far as it went to authorise stamping by local inspectors. It was the most objectionable part of the whole measure, as it led to great inconvenience and useless expense. He had before divided the Committee on it, and it was only carried by the casting vote of the noble Lord. The Chairman should be of no utility as a means of verification. He (Mr. Estcourt) would therefore propose that the Clause be altogether excluded
 Mr. Ward  did not mind those cheers. He would repeat, that it would be a most unjust act to take that property away from the Duke of Wellington, because the reasons for which it was granted were still subsisting; but the question was, whether the original grounds on which the Church-
 964 l. 965 966 967 968 969
 Mr. Ward  explained. He moved the adjournment last night, therefore he had no reason to suppose that the right hon. Baronet would not have been in his place to-day. But seeing the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, present (Lord Stanley), who was associated with the right hon. Baronet, he thought he was not justified in losing the argument which he wished to urge in consequence of the absence of the right hon. Baronet, however he might feel himself called upon, by reason of that absence, to refrain from urging it so strongly as he otherwise might have done.
 Mr. Ward  replied, that the ground of that Act still subsisted. That ground was the national gratitude; and he admitted it would be unjust to repeal that Act.
 Mr. Ward : The deep interest he had so long taken in this subject would, he hoped, induce the House to grant him its attention while he made a few observations.
 953 data. l. l. s. s. s. l. l. 954 955 956 957 958 959 l. l. l. l. 960 Here an hon. Member on the Opposition side made an observation 961 962 963
 Sir John Wrottesley  said, he conceived that in point of form it was not competent in the House to proceed at all with these money clauses in the absence of any declared assent to them on the part of the Government.
 Sir John Wrottesley  said, that if the hon. Alderman had kept the Bill within the limits which it had been understood should be adhered to, and had confined its operation to the City of London, he (Sir J. Wrottesley) should have supported it; but the Bill came out of Committee so altered and enlarged, that he thought it was impossible for the House to assent to it, as he found it to be himself. The Bill, as it now stood, went to re-establish the old Board of Commissioners, and all their attendant mischiefs; and this in itself was an overwhelming objection. No doubt very great inconvenience was sustained in the city from a want of due regulation of these carriages; and he should support any measure which tended effectually to re-
 950
 Sir Robert Bateson  said, that, notwithstanding the explanation of the hon. Gentleman, he must still express his disapprobation of the mode in which his personal observation upon an absent Member had been cheered by hon. Members on the other side of the House. With regard to the Question now under consideration, he begged leave to state why he should give his vote in favour of the Amendment proposed by the right hon. Member for Tamworth, as conscientiously and consistently as any vote which the hon. Member for St. Alban's had himself ever recorded. He conceived that this measure was not that which it had been described—a measure of peace and tranquillity to his unfortunate country. He could not bring himself to believe otherwise than that it would be a means of continuing religious animosities, and that the end would be to create civil and religious warfare, and, perhaps, rebellion in Ireland. Such, he anticipated, would be the result if his Majesty's Government persisted in their course of conduct towards Ireland. If that course were pursued, what would be the fate of Irish Protestants, against whom, as it seemed to him, there had long been directed a systematic attempt to put them down? That system had been pursued now for a very considerable time, and this Bill was part and parcel of the system of which the Protestants of Ireland had so much reason to complain. His Majesty's present Government, pushed forward from a pressure from without, were about to adopt measures which would have the effect and tendency of destroying Protestantism and establishing popery in Ireland. As to the proposed appropriation contemplated by this measure, he would merely observe, that the
 971 972 973 974
 Sir Robert Bateson  complained of I he personal attack made by the hon. Member for St. Alban's upon the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Cumberland, whose able speech last night was as excellent in the principles it laid down as it was unanswerable in the arguments upon which those principles were enforced. He thought it would have exhibited much better taste if the hon. Gentleman had reserved that personal attack until the right hon. Baronet had been in his place to defend himself. It was, however, needless for him to undertake the defence of the right hon. Baronet's speech, and he should leave it to others who were better able than himself to perform that task. He did not wish to say, anything of irritation, but he must say, that the violent personal observations (couched perhaps in strict Parliamentary language) in which the hon. Member had indulged
 970
 Lord Ebrington  defended the clause. Though the hon. and learned Member would abolish stamping, he would keep up the system of inspectors, which would then be really open to those charges of inconvenience that had been made against it. The object of the Bill was, not to provide against every fraud that might be committed, but simply to establish a uniformity of weights and measures. It would be in vain to attempt to effect any
 951
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that as he had already had an opportunity of explaining the details of the measure and his own views respecting it, and as the Motion of the right hon. Baronet turned upon a point which, at the commencement of the Session, was discussed almost to the process of ex-
 1004 1005 1006 l., l. l., l. l., l. 1007 l. l. 1008 l. s., 1009 l. l. l. l. l. l., l., l. l. 1010 l. l., l. 1011 1012 1013 t., l. l., l. 
 
 I. CORPORATIONS—SOLE. 
 1. The annual revenue of the continuing and suppressed Sees appears, by the Report of the Ecclesiastical Revenue Commissioners, to amount to (see 1st Report, pages 42, 43) .. .. .. Gross. Net. 
 £151,127 12 4 or £128,808 8 3 
 N. B. The principal sources of this revenue arise from rents reserved by lease and annual renewal of fines; but the true amount of Episcopal revenue is even greater than is above stated, as it appears, from the Commissioners' Report, that there are 213 tenants under the Sees holding for terms of 21 years, whose annual renewal fines are not included. 
 2. The income arising from glebe lands amounts, annually to .. .. 92,000 0 0 80,000 0 0 Deducting serve rents and expenses of collection. 
 3. The income arising from ministers' money, amounts annually to .. .. 10,000 0 0 9,500 0 0 Deducting 5 l. 
 4. The income arising from Ecclesiastical Tithe Compositions is .. £555,000 0 0 of which there belongs to Archbishops and Bishops, and to corporations aggregate, held either in their own hands, or let to tenants at reserved rents 23,218 5 5 531,781 17 7 505,192 12 10 deducting 5 l. 
 £784,909 6 11 £723,496 1 1 
 * 1014 l. Hear, hear! 1015 
 
 II. CORPORATIONS—AGGREGATE. 
 1. The income belonging to Beans and Chapters, as a common estate, amounts to 1,042 11 5 928 0 2 
 2. The income arising from economy estates, and belonging to Deans and Chapters, is .. 11,055 14 7 10,502 18 10 
 3. The income arising from estates of Minor Canons and Vicars Choral, is .. 10,525 19 5 9,999 13 6 
 £807,533 12 4 £744,926 13 7 l., Read! read! Hibernia Dominicana, 1016 
 
 1766. 1834. 
 Armagh 1 1¼ 1 1¾ 
 Deny 1 0⅔ 1 11/5 
 Down and Connor 10 2⅔ 10 4 
 Dromore 10 6 10 7 
 Raphoe 1 11/5 1 2¾ 
 Kildare 1 3½ 1 8¼ 
 Kilmore, Ardagh 1 4¾ 1 6 
 Cashel 1 9 1 30 
 Cork and Ross 1 5 1 9 
 Cloyne 1 8 1 23 
 Elphin 1 10 1 18 
 Killaloe 1 9 1 182 
 Killaloe 1 6 1 8¼ 
 Tuam 1 9 1 46 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1017 l. 1018 1019 l. l. l. l. l., 1020 l. l. s. d., l. s. l. s. d., 1021 l.
 Viscount Morpeth  did not see how the passage bore upon his statement. He had not seen anything to disprove what he had stated. His authority, it was true, might have deceived him; but until it was proved to have done so, he should continue to entertain the most undoubting conviction of the truth of these allegations which he had made. He was alluding, when he received
 1022 
 
 First Union Members of Ch. Estab. Tithe Comp. 
 Knoctopher 99 £175 
 Anghavilla 61 200 
 Dunnemaggin 10 200 
 Kilkeasy 12 185 
 Derryraberry 14 325 
 Killana 0 34 
 Killcreddy 0 0 
 Killkervill 0 25 
 Protestants 196 1,044 
 The whole population 7,507 
 Second Union. 
 Paleroan 4 150 
 Portnascully 0 75 
 Illud 0 45 
 Protestants 4 270 
 Population 2,913 l., l., l. 1023 1024 l. l. l., l. l. 1025 
 
 Members of Ch. Estab. Tithe Comp. 
 Killatty 13 £400 
 Ballybea 15 400 
 Templeracarigy 27 498 
 Ballyvourney 30 500 
 Ardagh 14 600 
 Whitechurch 20 784 
 Moogeesla 19 809 
 Clonfriest 35 869 l. l. l. 1026 l. l. l. 1027 
 1. Templemore, diocese of Derry—Gross value, 3,240 l. l. l. l. 2. Mullabrack, diocese of Armagh—Gross value, 2,055 l. l. l. s. d. 3. Kilmore, diocese of Armagh—Gross value, 2,078 l. l. l. s. d. 4. Donoughmore, diocese of Derry—Gross value, 2,115 l. l. l. l. s. 5. Louth, diocese of Armagh—Gross value, 2,048 l. l. l. l. The Second Class consists of Clergymen's Incomes, as above, exceeding 1,500 l. 
 1. Cappagh, diocese of Derry—Gross value, 1,600/.; tithe composition, 1,000 l. l. s. d. 2. Clonenagh, diocese of Leighlin—Gross value, 1,500 l. l. s. d. 3. Donagheady, diocese of Derry—Gross value, 1,902 l. l. l. l. s. 4. Maghera, diocese of Derry—Gross value, 1,665 l. l. l. l. s. 5. Saughboyne, diocese of Raphoe—Gross value, 1,849 l. l. l. l. s. The Third Class consists of Clergymen's Incomes, as before, exceeding 1,000 l. 
 1. Termannaguirh, diocese of Armagh—Gross value, 1,483 l. l. l. s. 2. Loughgilly, diocese of Armagh—Gross value, 1,393 l. l. l. l. s. d. 3. Clonleigh, diocese of Derry—Gross value, 1,190 l. l. l. s. d. 4. Tamlaghfinlagan, diocese of Derry—Gross value, 1,235 l. l. l. l. s. d. 5. Creggan, diocese of Armagh—Gross
 1028 l. l. l. l. The Fourth Class consists of Clergymen's Incomes, as before, exceeding 500 l. 
 1. Borevagh, diocese of Derry—Gross value, 630 l. l. l. s. 2. Clencha, diocese of Derry—Gross value 703 l., l l., s. Dunleer, diocese of Armagh—Gross value, 637 l. l. l. l. s. 4. Sermonfeckan, diocese of Armagh—Gross value, 673 l. l. l. l. 5. Clonmany, diocese of Derry—Gross value, 505; tithe composition, 410 l. l. l. l., l. 1029 l. 1030 1031
 Mr. Hodges  presented a Petition from Hawkhurst, for an inquiry into, and alteration, of the Law relating to Tithes. The petition was signed, he observed, by nearly all the respectable inhabitants of the parish; men of all parties, who united at least upon one point, viz., that the present tithe system must be speedily amended. The tithes of Hawkhurst belonged to the Dean and Chapter of Christchurch, Oxford, who let them on lease to their attorney, while the officiating minister was very inadequately provided for. The exactions had been so severe that out of forty-eight renting farmers in Hawkhurst, no fewer than
 1077 modus
 Mr. O'Loughlen  wished to set the hon. Baronet right as to what was the practice with regard to applications to the Lord-Lieutenant for the exercise of the prerogative in the case of the remission of sentences on prisoners. It was by no means unusual for the Lord-lieutenant to make such remission when accompanied by such strong representations as were made in this case, without at all referring the question to the Judge who passed the sentence.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said he did hope his hon. and learned Friend would not accede to the proposition for postponement. Last evening it was expressly stated that the Bill would be brought forward this night; and to meet the convenience of the House, and to prevent mistake, it was put the very first of the Orders of the Day. If the Bill was postponed, what chance was there that it, could pass this Session? He did not think that, however long they postponed it, a
 1095
 Mr. Law  said, that his reason for wishing the Motion to be postponed was, that many hon. Members who were anxious to declare their sentiments on the subject, were not present.
 Mr. Scarlett  thought, that Mr. Clipperton ought not to have been called upon to divulge the secrets of his client. He considered him an honest straightforward man, incapable of a dishonourable act, but he admitted that his knowledge of him was not great.
 Lord John Russell  had, on a former occasion, stated the reasons why his Majesty's Ministers did not think it expedient to proceed with a measure on the subject of the tithe-laws in England during the present Session. He now begged to add, that he should be prepared, on the part of the Government, early in the next Session of Parliament, to submit a measure on the subject to the consideration of the Legislature. On a former occasion he had stated, that he thought it would be advisable that the subject, after it had been laid before Parliament, should be referred to the consideration of a Select Committee, in order that the different bearings of the question, and the different amount and operation of tithes in different parts of the country, might be duly and properly considered. He would only add, that he still retained the same opinion as to the propriety of that course.
 Lord John Russell  said, that he hoped on the same occasion the right hon. Gentleman opposite would give his opinion as
 1076
 Lord John Russell  said, that when this question was before the House on a former occasion, he had understood the debate to be adjourned until the evidence was printed, in order that hon. Members, before deciding on the case, might know the facts of it. It now appeared that the evidence would not be printed so soon as the hon. Member for Montgomery shire anticipated. He should, therefore, move that the debate be adjourned till Monday.
 Lord John Russell  observed, that the hon. and learned Gentleman must be aware that it was intended on Monday to go into Committee on the Irish Church Bill; there would therefore be no time, at this late period of the Session, to carry this measure forward if they were to lose the present opportunity. He hoped the opposition would not be persisted in.
 Mr. Hawes  hoped, that the Bill would be allowed to go into Committee. The Bill was a very important one—he said so as a man of business—and he was surprised that any opposition to it should spring from a professional quarter. If hon. Members were desirous of having a better opportunity of discussing the measure, that would be afforded to them on the bringing up of the Report.
 Mr. Hawes  was sorry that he could not discharge his duty and Mr. Clipperton at the same time. He was not disposed to show him mercy until the prisoner was ready to show his papers, or give a sufficient reason for having destroyed them.
 Mr. Warburton  said a few words, which we could not catch; but he appeared to favour the Bill.
 Mr. Herbert Curteis  rose to give his warmest support to the petition now presented by the hon. Member for Brighton. He considered the claim for tithes in kind
 1075
 Mr. Freshfield  moved, that John Clipper-ton be brought to the Bar and discharged.
 Mr. Freshfield  maintained, on the authority of the case decided by Lord Brougham, that Mr. Clipperton could not, as a man of honour, or as a professional man, answer the questions put to him, and he hoped to be able to convince the House that he had only done what was his duty.
 Mr. Freshfield  objected to the Clause, as granting too much power to the Commissioners.
 Mr. Freshfield  opposed the Motion. He begged leave to offer a few words in explanation of his course of proceeding. He had given notice of his intention to move that the Report betaken into further consideration that day six months; but his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Law), had made a Motion which precluded him from acting on his notice. He was therefore obliged to give the present Motion a negative. He felt, whatever might be his opinion, or those of any Gentleman in the House upon the subject, it was a question upon which the public had only begun to think, at least in the particular form in which it was presented to them in the present Bill, and therefore he had intended to propose the postponement of the Bill to afford the public an opportunity of considering the measure in the form in which the hon. and learned Attorney-General had thought right to introduce it, that it might be taken up at a future Session either in its present condition, or with those practical changes in it which experienced persons might suggest in Committee. He objected to the Speaker's leaving the Chair, and to any further proceedings being had on the Bill during the present Session, in order that the public might have full time to consider of it. He objected also strongly to the measure being regarded, in any shape, as one issuing from that side of the House, and resisted on this. For himself he would say, that if he could regard it with any political view, he believed he should be the last to oppose the Motion. But when he recollected, that although the measure was brought in by the learned Attorney-General, in conjunction with the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Hawes), yet that the measure itself proceeded originally from the Report made by the Common Law Commissioners, Mr. Commissioner Lee, and Sir F. Pollock. It was impossible to receive the Bill as a party measure, or that any Gentleman could do justice to the subject, who should consider it in such light. He discharged himself of all party feeling, considering it as a great and important question that they were discussing, one which would work much good, or increase evil in the country; and that therefore they should consider seriously before they proceeded to effect so great a change.
 1081 1082 1083 1084 "pro formâ" 1085 s. s. s. s. s. 1086 onus onus 1087 onus 1088
 Mr. Richards  asked for the indulgence of the House, while he stated his reasons for not allowing the Bill to pass into Committee: he felt great reluctance in doing so, because the Bill was a popular one; and he knew, that an individual who opposed it must make up his mind to incur great odium, both in the House, and out of it. On a former occasion, on the Select Committee, he (Mr. Richards) had the honour of moving, that witnesses should be examined upon the provisions
 1089 1090 1091 1092 in limine, l. l. l. viva voce 1093
 Mr. Richards  objected that it would give the Commission vast political influence, and thought the House should view with considerable jealousy such an increase of power vested in the Crown.
 Mr. Roebuck  dissented from the doctrine that an attorney so circumstanced was privileged on the ground of professional confidence.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, the Bill was of so important a character that it should not be discussed in so thin a House. He would, therefore, move that the Chairman report progress.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  agreed with his hon. Friend in thinking a material and extensive alteration in the English tithe-laws absolutely necessary. It would afford him great pleasure, therefore, to hear from the noble Lord opposite that his Majesty's Government had it in contemplation to introduce some measure upon the subject.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  conceived, that Mr. Clipperton had already suffered enough in being confined for six weeks, at a season of the year when such confinement was peculiarly injurious.
 Captain Pechell  presented a Petition most numerously and respectably signed by the flock-masters on the Southdowns, and others in the western division of the county of Sussex, praying that a law might immediately be passed to declare that agistment tithe only should be due for turnips pecked up or severed for the depasturage of their sheep. He, Captain Pechell, was aware to what a length the subject of tithes had been carried by a three nights' debate in this House; yet he felt himself compelled to state the hardship complained of by the petitioners in consequence of the Courts having now decided that turnips pecked up in advance of the fold, though consumed on the ground where produced, should pay tithe in kind. The petition was signed by a large party of agriculturists who owned among them no less a number than 38,180 sheep. There were eleven individuals whose flocks varied in number from one to two thousand sheep, and there were fifty-two whose average flock consisted of nearly 400 each. Surely these persons deserved to have their case taken into consideration, and that their very large property vested in farming should be protected. The petition might be viewed as coming from these 38,180 sheep, who begged to be permitted to enjoy their ancient privilege of feeding on turnips uncontaminated by the law of tithe in kind, to which process they have never (till lately) been liable, and they
 1074 l. l. s.
 The Attorney-General  said, that as no further proceedings were, he believed, to be instituted against Mr. Clipperton, the delicacy which he should otherwise have felt was removed, and he should, therefore, most certainly give his opinion on the case on Monday.
 The Attorney-General  said, the Clause had the full approbation of the most eminent commercial men; and their opinion was certainly of more avail than those of a mere professional man. When those opinions would be laid, as they would be, before the hon. Gentleman, he (the Attorney-General) was sure he would change his opinion. The object of the Bill was to procure a speedy recovery of debts, which could not be effected by the present Bill, and this was a great desideratum.
 Sir John Campbell  defended the Clause, as one that dealt equal justice to the humble and exalted. By the present Clause every person against whom judgment was signed must resign his property, and that course would serve the creditor in the end, by making him more cautious in giving credit, while it relieved the debtor from the horrid consequences of being deprived of his bread by being kept in custody. If the debtor now practised a fraud he would be treated as a criminal.
 The Attorney-General  did not think it at all necessary to go into any arguments relative to the principle of the Bill, and the more especially as he entertained not the slightest hope that any thing he could urge would have the effect of convincing either the hon. Member for Penryn or the hon. Member for Knaresborough, that this was not a bad Bill. Nothing that he had heard advanced against the measure had in the least altered his opinion respecting the utility of it, and, therefore, he would suggest that the better course to pursue would be to allow the Bill to go into Committee now, upon the understanding that those who objected either to the whole or any part of it, should be afforded an opportunity of bringing forward their objections on the bringing up of the report, or when the Bill came to a third reading.
 The Attorney-General  moved that the Order of the Day, for the further consideration of the Report, be read.
 The Attorney-General  hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman would not persevere in his Motion. He had given early notice of his intention to bring this Question on to-night; and he was very anxious to do so, for there were hundreds and thousands of persons looking forward to the passing of this measure; all of whom were suffering that sickness of heart which arose from hope deferred.
 Sir Robert Bateson  hoped the House would indulge him, while he gave a brief explanation. He could assure the noble Lord that he never stated, in his question, anything as to whether the sentences were passed on Protestants, or Catholics, or Quakers. He asked the question simply as to the matter of fact, whether the sentences had been remitted without any communication with the Judge who had tried the prisoners. As to Lady Mulgrave, he assured the noble Lord that he meant nothing offensive in his observations. He had not read any newspapers; but was instructed, by letters from very respectable persons, that an application had gone to her Ladyship. He was the last person in the House to lessen or impair the influ-
 1079
 Sir Robert Bateson  wished to put a question to the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland. At a late Assizes in Ireland, certain parties had been convicted of a misdemeanour, and sentenced to six months' imprisonment; but he had heard, that in consequence of a memorial to Lady Mulgrave, those parties had been liberated, without any communication with the Judge who presided at the trial. This he considered to be very unusual; and he wished, therefore, to ask the noble Lord whether he was aware of the circumstances?
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, that on inquiry at the printing-office this morning he had ascertained that the press of business there was so great, more particularly in consequence of the printing of the evidence on Orange Lodges, that there was no chance of the evidence in this case being printed just yet. When Mr. Clipperton was before the Committee he had refused to answer certain questions, claiming the protection of his profession. He (Mr. Wynn), in common with the other Members of the Committee, had conceived that such a claim was not tenable: but he had since read a judicial decision given by Lord Brougham, from which it would seem that the protection to be claimed by an attorney in virtue of his office went much beyond what he imagined. He hoped that when the evidence was printed, the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite would give his opinion how far the witness had been justified in his refusal to answer the questions put by the Committee.
 Sir William Follett  thought the Clause would not lead to the benefits anticipated from it. There were many tradesmen who could not pay their bills when demanded. The present Bill gave them no time; for a party of creditors might assemble, and in ten days seize his property, his lands, goods, and every thing. If the Bill passed, no mercantile man would put his hand to a Bill, from the fear of being despoiled of his property at the caprice of his creditors, by having judgment marked against him in ten days. Many men might be solvent and yet not be able to pay their bills when immediately called for. The Bill would ruin trade, by allowing no time to the
 1096
 Sir William Follett  had, in common with many other hon. Gentlemen, understood that this Bill was not to come on that night, and this understanding was, he believed, the reason the House was so thinly attended. He knew that many hon. Gentlemen not belonging to the profession of which he had the honour to be a member, but connected with trade and commerce, were anxious to speak upon the subject, and he thought that it would be only fair to afford them an opportunity of expressing the opinions which they entertained with regard to this measure. The House should recollect that this was a Bill of very great importance, and that it not only went to abolish imprisonment, for debt, but would materially alter the whole of the law in reference to debtor and creditor. The whole trading and commercial interests of this country would be more affected by this measure than by any that had come before Parliament for many years past, and, therefore he must submit that it was anything but just to proceed with it in so thin a House, and when it was impossible that either the principle or the details which it involved could be discussed in a manner commensurate with the grave importance of the subject. It was not his intention to offer any observations on the principle of the Bill, but as it might be susceptible of great improvement in the Committee, even though the principle it went to establish might be agreed to, he would suggest whether, if his hon. Friend the Member for Penryn were to withdraw his amendment, his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney-General ought not to postpone the motion for going into Committee to some future day, either during the morning or evening sittings? His hon. and learned Friend should bear in mind that a great number of petitions had been presented to the House from all quarters against this Bill.
 Viscount Morpeth  observed, that the case was this—that at a late Assizes, certain parties were convicted, on cross indictments for a riot, by the same Jury. The Chief Baron sentenced all the parties included in one of the indictments, and who were Catholics, to six months' imprisonment; and the parties included in the other indictment, and who were Protestants—some to three and some to two months' imprisonment. All the Jury, eleven of whom were Protestants, signed a petition to the Lord-lieutenant, and not to the Lord-lieutenant's Lady; which petition was also backed by the Mayor of Derry; praying for the remission of the longer sentence passed on the Catholics; and with that prayer the Lord-lieutenant thought it consistent with his duty to comply. The hon. Baronet had alluded to Lady Mulgrave. He was surprised that that noble Lady should not have escaped an attack in the newspapers, for merely having sent a private charitable letter, in reply to one received by her from the wife of one of the prisoners.
 Colonel Sibthorpe  remarked that 166 petitions, with 10,257 signatures, had already been laid upon the table against the Bill, most of the names being those of professional men, upon whom it would be an evident and serious hardship. For his own part, he was resolved to give it the most determined opposition, and it was his firm belief that it would be considered by both sides of the House without any intermixture of party feeling. If the measure
 1106
 Mr. Lowther  had presented petitions embodying the sentiments of those who had spoken against the proposed change. He did not mean to object to any proper reforms in the Ecclesiastical Courts, but he hoped that the Bill would be withdrawn until next year, in order to give people time to consider its provisions.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  assured the House, that from the very first moment that the attention of the Government had been called to the existing state of things in the county of Mayo, they had been unremitting in their exertions to meet the distress. He hoped the hon. Member for Dundalk would consent to withdraw his Motion, for he could assure the hon. Member that the less such a subject was talked of, the better it would be for the country, and the sooner would matters readjust themselves. Nothing was more
 1114
 Mr. Goulburn , for the convenience of the House, would state the course which he should pursue with regard to this Bill. After the decision to which the House had come on a former night, which intimated the intention of the majority to refuse that consideration to this Bill which the minority thought that it deserved, he should not think himself justified in wasting his own time, and, what was more valuable, the time of the House, in offering a variety of objections to the further progress of the Bill. No amendments could remove the objections which he felt to it on the score of appropriation. Nothing could reconcile him to the latter portion of it, which went to appropriate the property of the Church to purposes foreign from Ecclesiastical purposes. Nothing could induce him to consent to the reopening of the tithe composition, except distinct proof that the tithe composition had been accomplished under circumstances of fraud. He had come to that resolution, first, because such a re-opening of the tithe composition would tend to
 1116
 Lord Stanley  rose to make a suggestion to his noble Friend, the Secretary for Ireland, on the course which he (Lord Morpeth) was going to pursue with respect to this Bill. That course was open to the same objection which had been made against the Bill proposed by the hon. and gallant Gentleman, who had preceded him in office. Before he entered into any explanation of that objection, he would state, that it was his wish in the first part of the Bill to offer such suggestions for the improvement of it, as he thought were
 1118 1119 l. l.
 Mr. Walker  thought, that the middlemen ought not to be allowed to collect more from the occupying tenant, than the head landlord paid to the clergy. He took this opportunity of stating, that some Irish Conservative landlords, who were at first disposed, out of regard to the Church, and in order to avail themselves of the  bonus
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the cases put by the noble Lord would become day by day fewer. The fact was, that in this Bill, as in that of the noble Lord, it was assumed, that as regarded existing leases, landlords and tenants would arrange so, that injustice should be done to neither party.
 Mr. O'Connell  objected to the Clause, as throwing a burden on those who had lately been exonerated from it, but he was willing to waive his objections for the sake of good to be effected by the measure. So little had the people of Ireland been in the habit of paying tithes of late years, that the re-enactment of them by this Bill was almost like throwing a new burden upon the people. What would be the consequence if this Bill were rejected? By the noble Lord's (Lord Stanley) Bill, the clergy would have recovered seventy-seven and-a-half per cent of their tithes; by the Bill of the right hon. Baronet opposite, (Sir H. Hardinge) seventy-five per cent; and the Bill now under consideration insured the clergymen seventy-three and-a-half per cent; but if the Bill were rejected, what would they recover? Little or nothing. The people would refuse to pay tithes, and only the enemies of the Church could desire to see the Bill thrown out.
 Lord Stanley  was sure, that no member of the Church objected to the settlement of the tithe question, or to the amount that was proposed to be awarded to the clergyman. He hoped, that the House would not let it be supposed that the payment of tithes to the clergy as a body, was likely to cease; as for the present measure being a boon for the clergy, he
 1121 l. l. l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that no doubt some tithes might be collected under the existing law; but he wished to call the attention of the House back to the case before them. He believed that, for the future, it would be highly dangerous to the interests of the Church, if this measure did not pass. If it were carried into effect, the clergy would never be brought in contact in any way with the tithe-payers, but would go and obtain the amount due to them from the collecting-officer of the Government. This, he thought, was highly advantageous to the clergy. He also begged his noble Friend to recollect, that the landlords were not always so willing to pay tithes.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had not objected to the principle a few months ago, for he had applauded the measure proposed by the right hon. and Gallant Member (Sir Henry Hardinge), in which a deduction of twenty-five per cent, was to be made from the income of the clergy. By the Bill of last year, the clergy would have received 77 l. s. l. l. s. 1122
 Lord Stanley  objected to re-opening the cases of commutation that had been entered into respecting the payment of tithes. This could not be done without instituting inquiries into the circumstances under which each case was entered into. In the Act of 1833, provision was made by which the Lord-lieutenant in Council was enabled to re-open the question of commutation in any case in which it could be proved that the commutation had been entered into—not merely in cases of fraud and wilful concealment—but wherever the parties were ignorant of the circumstances of the case. There had been only two or three instances of such appeals. In the next year, in the Million Act, opportunity was afforded to parties to open the question of commutation, not merely before the Privy Council, but before the assistant Barrister, in any case in which it clearly appeared that injustice had been done. The course proposed in this Bill, however, would be attended with great inconvenience, and would occasion great confusion. He objected that it did not appear necessary that notice should be
 1123
 Mr. O'Connell  thought it would be better to leave the Clause out altogether, than that it should be carried with such Amendments. If it were amended as proposed, it would be a mockery—an idle mockery. It was most objectionable to involve it in so many technicalities and obstructions. Six weeks was too little time for notice of the intention to apply for a revision; three months at least ought to be given. What the people of Ireland complained of was, that the sums agreed to be paid on the average were colourably agreed to. In some cases the average for a whole parish was founded on a single decree.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  contended that the new appeal was necessary to provide for the cases of hardship which would arise without it. The argument of the right hon. Gentleman, (Mr. Shaw) might apply if the property of the Church were to be viewed only as a whole; although a new appeal might not be necessary, because under that already existing the gross amount of composition had neither been increased nor diminished, still it was required for the sake of justice in individual cases, in which particular portions of that compo-
 1125
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he had seen many a tribunal, and that he never saw one half so bad as that in question; it was such that there existed not the smallest chance of bringing down a composition before it—unless, indeed, in some very gross case, The hon. and learned Gentleman might fairly eulogize the individuals composing that tribunal, but could he eulogize the tribunal itself?
 Dr. Baldwin  hoped that his hon. Friend the Member for Dundalk would not press the House to a division, as such a step would induce the people of Ireland to suppose that the House was divided on a question of mere charity towards them. Though he honoured the intentions of his hon. Friend, which he admitted to be of the purest and most beneficial character, he still could not feel him self jstified in voting against the Government on the present occasion.
 Mr. Scarlett  did not perceive that there was any such crying grievance in the present system as to render an immediate alteration necessary. It was proposed to abolish the country jurisdictions, and to remove them to London; and for that part of the Bill he saw no sufficient reason. Having examined the Report of the Commissioners, he might say, that he was not of opinion that they had stated any practical grounds for such a measure.
 Mr. William Duncombe  presented a petition from Richmond (Yorkshire) against the Ecclesiastical Courts Bill. He would take the opportunity of urging the Attorney-General to postpone the measure until next Session.
 Lord John Russell  said, that with respect to the Motion now before the House he must say, that though he was quite ready to concur in the kind of relief which had been in this instance afforded by his
 1115
 Major Beauclerk  hoped that early next Session the Government would give to Ireland the only remedy for these series of distresses, viz., poor laws. Though he might be a loser on the property he possessed in that country by such a measure, yet he should be glad to hear from the noble Lord at the head of the Home Department that it was his intention to bring forward such a measure. If so, he would give it his humble but strenuous support.
 Mr. Dominick Browne  had called the attention of the Government, three or four years ago, to the distresses which then prevailed in the same parts of the country. He admitted that distress now existed,
 1113 l. s. d.
 Mr. Shaw  declared, on the part of the clergy, that they were willing to make any sacrifice for securing the peace of Ireland; but they could not, conscientiously or consistently with their duty, consent to sacrifice a principle. They never would be induced, by any apparent temporary advantage to themselves, to sacrifice the permanent good of the Church.
 Mr. Shaw  preferred the descending to the ascending scale. Upon the whole, he thought, that it would be best to throw the burden upon the first estate of inheritance.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that there was no necessity for the new appeal to the Commissioners of Woods and Forests, which the Clause established; the results of the present system of appeal to the Privy Council of Ireland, as provided by former Acts of Parliament, were fully sufficient to show that it could lead to no useful end. The decisions under the existing arrangements had been pretty well balanced; the cases of diminution and those of increase had been nearly equal, — very many of the appeals had been dismissed, and nothing whatsoever had been gained on the whole by the proceedings.
 Mr. Finch  did not know whether he should not be out of order in adverting to the Clause just referred to by the noble Lord, which was not regularly before the Committee. He wished, however, that the noble Lord would explain to him what he meant by the terms "national education." The first destination of the Reserve Fund was to be to parishes from which all Protestant pastors had been removed in consequence of their not containing fifty Protestant inhabitants. If that were the case, these funds, instead of being destined to the purposes of "national," would be destined to the purposes of "Roman Catholic" education. The first claim for schools would come from the 300 parishes, in which were no Protestants whatever.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, that by the 5th Clause middlemen were empowered to recover tithes as rent by ejectment, a power that they never had before, and which was quite sufficient for their protection without giving them any bonus.
 Mr. James Grattan  said, that as it was clear the people in those districts were in a state of starvation, relief ought to be afforded. He would suggest to the noble Lord (Morpeth), that the best mode of relief would be, for the Irish Government to make the advance necessary, and then to apply to the Legislature for means to compel the repayment through a Grand Jury assessment.
 Mr. Emerson Tennent  presented a Petition from the Chamber of Commerce of Belfast, against the equalization of the discriminating duty on Canadian and Baltic timber. The petition, after stating that the present import of North American timber into the United Kingdom was equal to 1,000,000 loads per annum, proceeded to show that the trade carried on by British shipping alone, fitted out by British capital, and giving employment to British Seamen, created a market for British produce to the amount of upwards of two millions sterling per annum; whilst on the other hand, the European timber brought into this country was carried exclusively in foreign bottoms, manned by foreign seamen, and took away none of our manufactures to any extent in return. The petitioners expressed their dread of the effect which any reduction of the duty on Baltic timber might produce on the current of emigration, as well as on the interests of British shipping generally, and they concluded by praying, that if the Legislature in its wisdom saw fit to introduce any alteration in the existing duties, no reduction should be made in those on Baltic timber, without a concurrent diminution on the produce of Canada, so as still to preserve the existing proportion between them, conceiving that a change on any other principle must be injurious to their trade, destructive of their shipping, and highly prejudicial to the progress of emigration. To these general observations of the petitioners, he was not disposed to add any lengthened observations of his own. Whether or not the petitioners had accurately stated the amount of our imports and exports from Canada, he was not immediately prepared to say; but if the former did not amount to 1,000,000 loads of timber per annum, he (Mr. Emerson Tennent) was aware that they were at least considerably above 600,000 an amount which of itself engrossed up wards of 400,000 tons of British shipping, and gave employment to 22,000 seamen nearly equal to the numbers employed in the Royal Navy of England. The importance of this branch of our commerce could not in fact, be rated too highly; in Liverpool alone it occupied between 300 and 400
 1102 l. l. l. 1103 l. l. 1104 l. 1105
 Mr. Wilks  agreed that this ought not to be treated as a party question, and he hoped that on all sides it would meet with candour, impartiality, and discrimination. At the same time, he thought that the Attorney-General ought not to press the Bill in the present Session, but allow it to be printed and circulated throughout the country. [Mr. C.  Fergusson
 Mr. Serjeant Jackson  said, that in many of the compositions which this Clause might open, the evidence on which they were made was lost, or the parties perhaps were dead. Some of the compositions had been made years ago on promissory notes, memoranda of agreement, and field-notes. When once a composition was entered into, it was considered final.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  observed, that there was no ground for throwing out any imputations upon that tribunal; the portion of the Privy Council by which their appeals were usually determined, consisted of some of the Judges of Ireland and other individuals whose characters were as high and unblemished as those of any persons, of whatever rank, in any profession whatsoever.
 Mr. Pease  observed, that the Bill had certainly excited a good deal of alarm in the part of the country with which he was connected. He could not think whence the opinion had arisen that nothing could be well done that was not done in London; neither could he see the reason for depriving country practitioners of what had hitherto been a source of considerable emolument. If this measure were adopted, everything must be done by means of solicitors and agents in London.
 Mr. Perrin  did not think his Amendment would be liable to the objections of the hon. and learned Gentleman. The party would have to state his complainton oath to the Commissioners of Woods and Forests, who, if they saw fit, would grant a revision; and the Lord-lieutenant would issue his warrant for the revision, specifying what were the grounds. This appeared to him to be a simple course. He had no objection, however, to postpone the Clause, to afford time for the Amendment being considered.
 Mr. Perrin  intended to move an Amendment to the Clause which would he hoped, remove some of the objections. The effect of the Amendment he should propose was this: That where the amount of the composition exceeded by more than one-fifth the actual amount really paid or adjudged to be paid on the average of the seven years preceding the time of the composition, the complainant was to prepare a  primâ facie
 Mr. Cutler Fergusson  trusted that his right hon. Friend, the Attorney General, would give no pledge not to proceed with the Bill in the present session. If hon. Members had attended to the Report of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners (of whom he was one), they would have seen that this Bill grew out of it, and was intended to reform very gross abuses found to prevail in the Ecclesiastical Courts. The principle of the Bill was adopted by the late Attorney-General, and it was approved of by every person who spoke on the debate whose opinion was of any value.
 Mr. William O'Brien  thought the case of the county of Mayo afforded the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, an excellent opportunity of having recourse to his favourite remedy for the want of employment among the labouring population. He (Mr. O'Brien) meant the erection of public works. By this means, employment would not only enable the population to meet the present scarcity of food, but a great benefit would arise from the improvements of which this county in particular stood so much in need.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  rose, pursuant to the notice he had given, to call the attention of the House to the great distress which existed at the present moment, and which had continued for some time, in the county of Mayo. He had, so far back as the 6th of this month, mentioned the subject in a notice of Motion which he then gave for the 8th, for copies of certain communications made to the Government as to the great distress which existed amongst the peasantry in some districts of the county of Mayo; but since then, he had not had an opportunity of bringing the subject forward, owing to the state of other business in the House. Since his first notice of it, the distress had not abated; on the contrary, the communications which he had since received on the subject showed that it had increased in a frightful degree. He therefore felt it his duty not to delay any longer, but to take the first opportunity which presented itself of again urging the case on the House. He regretted that the task had not been undertaken by some individual locally connected with that county; for he had no connexion with it, but knowing as he did the extent of the distress, he felt it as a duty of common humanity to bring the matter under the notice of the House. In the former statements which he had made on this subject, he had relied on the communications made by the Catholic clergy, who had ample opportunities of witnessing the distress which they described. He would on the present occasion refer to other authorities; and first, to the reports of the Distress Committee, of which the Earl of Caledon was at the head. The Committee stated the distress to have
 1108 d. d. 1109 l. l. l. l. 1110 s. 1111
 The Attorney-General  begged it to be recollected that this measure was introduced by the late Attorney-General, and he therefore trusted that it would be supported by both sides of the House. He could not say he was not disposed to press it. On the contrary, he should endeavour to advance it through its different stages, and not relinquish the attempt to make it law without serious opposition. At present, he was sanguine enough to think that no such opposition would be offered.
 Sir Richard Musgrave  said, the present distress was anticipated at the time he submitted his Motion to the House for the introduction of a system of Poor-laws. That Motion, however, was opposed by the Government. There was one provision in his Bill which would apply to this case. Some landlords might have contributed to relieve the distress; but, in place of such partial relief, falling upon a few, his Bill went to levy equally a sum upon the whole parish, and thus there would be no loss to the Consolidated Fund. Any money to be advanced would be on the security of a Grand Jury presentment. He trusted his Bill might yet be allowed to go into Committee.
 Lord Clements  said, that under the system established by former Acts, particularly by that called "Goulburn's Act," the expenses of appeal were so great as to prevent its being resorted to in many cases in which it otherwise would be. Another cause of the smallness of the number of appeals under that system was to be found in the constitution of the tribunal to which they were made— the Privy Council of Ireland.
 Lord Morpeth  said, the object of the Government was to secure to the clergy the full amount to which they were entitled, and, on the other hand, to relieve the people from burthens that had improperly fallen upon them. All he asked was, that they should go deli-
 1124
 Lord Morpeth  intended, by the words "national education," that system of education, which was now carried on in Ireland by the Board of Education, and which had been commenced under the auspices of his noble Friend, the Member for North Lancashire.
 Viscount Morpeth  availed himself of that opportunity to state an alteration which the Government intended to make in one of the Clauses of the Bill. From certain quarters, to which they were inclined to look with every deference, a communication had been made to His Majesty's Ministers that strong objections were entertained to that provision of the Bill which directly assigned to the uses of the Board of Commissioners of National Education the excess of the Reserve Fund over and above all the purposes mentioned in the Act, on the ground, that it was calculated to give an invididious appearance in the eyes of some persons to the proceedings of that Board. Though it was to be hoped, that the liberality of Parliament would provide funds for the general education of the people of Ireland, should they fall short during the necessarily scanty beginning of the Reserve Fund; yet it had been inferred, unwisely he thought, that there might arise considerable impatience in districts liable to come under its operation—impatience, which might terminate in the most disastrou consequences. Now, as this was an alarm more apparent than real, yet it was of such a nature, and its existence had been communicated to him from such
 1117 l.
 Viscount Morpeth  stated, that he could see no other way of steering between the reduction to be given to the landlord, and the relief to be afforded to the tenant than that proposed by the Clause.
 Viscount Morpeth  had before risen, on several occasions, after the hon. Gentleman who had just sat clown, to address the House on this subject, and he was much pained again to be called upon to admit, that great distress still continued in the districts in question, and would, he feared, continue until the new crops of potatoes came in. The distress he flattered himself, however, was not general, but was, he believed, confined to the districts mentioned by the hon. Gentleman. There distress unquestionably did prevail, and under such circumstances, the Irish Government had taken every step which to them seemed available to meet it. They had sent down to Mayo a chief inspector of police to superintend the arrangements which had since been carried into effect; they had shipped, by a great number of vessels, large quantities of meal and potatoes, commodities which had been sold at a cheap rate to parties who had some means, and which had been distributed in districts
 1112
 Viscount Morpeth  having moved the Order of the Day for the House to go into Committee on the Tithes and Church of Ireland Bill,
 Mr. Baynes  referred to the proceedings of last Session on a measure for extending the Bonding System to some of the principal inland towns, and inquired of the President of the Board of Trade if it had been abandoned, or if it were intended to follow it up.
 Mr. William Williams  (Coventry) said, that as the House had been so long engaged in the discussion of this question, he would not have trespassed on its time if he did not feel a deep interest in the welfare of this meritorious class of artisans, from whom he had derived, in a variety of ways, so much benefit. He could not help expressing his surprise, as well as regret, at the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade, opposing the introduction of the Bill, without even knowing its contents. Committees of that House had, both last year and this year, devoted a great deal of time in investigating the deep distress which had been stated to exist by upwards of 112,000 petitioners. Both those Committees had reported to the House, that the deepest distress did exist, and had recommended some legislative enactment for its relief. The President of the Board of Trade had completely mistaken the object of the Bill in stating that that House was called upon
 1179 minimum
 Mr. Mark Phillips  was opposed to the principle of this Bill, because he did not consider that it was likely to meet the difficulty or remedy the evil complained of. As to any other measures which the
 1183 minimum
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to consolidate the office of Paymaster of the Forces, Paymaster of the Navy, Paymaster of Chelsea-Hospital, and Treasurer of the Ordnance. At present his right hon. Friend (Sir Henry Parnell) held those offices under separate appointments; the object of the Bill he wished to bring in was, to authorise one appointment for the whole of them. From the experience they had had during the time his right hon. Friend had held those offices, they felt convinced that the duties of all might be advantageously discharged by one person; and this with a prospect of further reductions being effected in the subordinate branches of these departments. He would briefly state some of the expenses of each department in times past, and what would be the effect of the proposed consolidation. In 1783, the salary of Paymaster General was 4,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1193
 Mr. Fox Maule  was of opinion, that there had already been sufficient inquiry by both Houses of Parliament upon the subject of consolidating turnpike trusts. He had Bills before the House for the
 1192
 Lord Dudley Stuart  had risen with the hon. Baronet, the Member for Renfrewshire, for the purpose of seconding the Motion of the hon. Member for Lanark—a Motion which he was induced to hope would not meet with the opposition of his Majesty's Government. He had been anticipated in that satisfaction. He thought that when the Government and the House considered that the subject to which the Bill proposed by his hon. Friend had been referred by the House itself to a Select Committee, they would agree in thinking, that it would be very hard to refuse to sanction the introduction of a Bill founded upon the Report of that Committee. When it was also remembered that no less than 800,000 of his Majesty's subjects earned their scanty and miserable subsistence by the trade of weaving, and were in the distressed condition which had been proved, could the rejection of their petitions, praying that which the Select Committee by their Report had recommended, be justified. This suffering portion of the community deserved well of the Legislature, inasmuch as up to a certain period they had borne their deep privation with patience, and for a great many years conducted themselves under their sufferings with great propriety. Their morality had only suffered injury by the want of those means which could afford them physical strength, and which want in the weaving districts had produced the most squalid wretchedness. It was not enough, nor could it be consolatory to tell these suffering classes, that they themselves must continue to bear their present distresses, but that by reduction of taxation their grandchildren, or their great-grand-children, three generations hence, would be relieved, and that therefore the Legislature would be justified in leaving the miseries of those now living unmitigated and un-redressed. It was only by relieving their distresses that their respect could be secured to the laws and institutions of their country, for if they found that by those laws and institutions they were not protected, was it to be wondered at that they should be guilty of some transgressions? Was it, in short, surprising that when by honest industry, by work night and day, not excepting in some cases Sundays, they were unable to maintain themselves and
 1158
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  called upon the House to reject the Bill of the hon. Member in its very first stage, principally for the sake of those whose interests were so loudly advocated on the other side. It was not because Government were disposed to underrate, the state of suffering in which, according to the Report of the Committee, these men were placed—it was not because Ministers were unwilling to do all they could to alleviate the distress of the weavers, that they would at once reject the Bill of the hon. Gentleman, but because they were satisfied that the sooner the delusion it was calculated to create was put an end to the better; and next, because, upon the hon. Gentleman's own showing, so far from his proposition being advantageous to the parties whose cause he advocated, they would be the very persons who would suffer most from it. If their distresses were heavy now, they would be aggravated in a tenfold degree, after the passing of the Bill, To the very
 1159 minimum minimum minimum 1160 Maxwell:
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  replied, that last Session he had been obliged to abandon the measure; but he had stated his intention of bringing it on again this Session. Circumstances, which were well known, had prevented his doing so early in the Session in his official capacity, and too much business of a different kind had since been before the House to afford him an opportunity. He was not in a condition to give the honourable Member any pledge for next Session, because he had not only met with considerable resistance to the plan from the out-ports, but he had found, in the inland towns intended to be benefited, a degree of lukewarmness for which he had not been prepared. They wished for a more extended measure than was consistent with his views of the question. He must therefore wait to ascertain what was the opinion of those places regarding a measure of a more limited character, before he pledged himself either way.—Subject dropped.
 Mr. Baines  said, that the hon. Gentleman, who had just sat down, described the proposal to fix a  minimum
 Mr. Robinson  said, the distress of the Hand-loom Weavers was admitted; it was also unquestionable, that the principle on which the Motion was founded, was opposed to the sound principles of political economy; but the present application was made because there appeared to be no other remedy for the evil. He confessed, that it was most absurd to seek to fix a  minimum minimum minimum
 Mr. Labouchere  regretted, that the statement made by his right hon. Friend (Mr. Poulett Thomson) had not been satisfactory to hon. Gentlemen opposite. It was the duty of the Members of that House to watch over the permanent interests of all classes of the community; and they were also bound to resist any proposition having apparently for its object the removal of distress, but which was likely to be injurious. This should be done even for the sake of those whom they were anxious to benefit. He lamented as much as any one the state of distress in which this meritorious class of persons was placed; but if they passed a Bill like that now proposed, instead of alleviating, they would aggravate their misery. The very introduction of the Bill would excite delusive hopes, and would on that account alone be highly injurious. However much the matter might be disguised, the truth was, that the whole end and object of the Bill was to endeavour to establish a  minimum, 1180
 Mr. Barlow Hoy  always thought, that the division of labour led to facility and perfection; he therefore feared, that whatever might be gained with regard to expense would be lost in efficiency by the proposed consolidation of these offices.
 Mr. Emerson Tennent  could not but regret the course which the right hon. President of the Board of Trade had adopted upon this occasion, in opposing altogether the introduction of this Bill. Although he (Mr. Tennent) could not agree in all the opinions expressed by the hon. Member for Lanark, he still felt it his bounden duty to give his support to the Motion. He could bear testimony to the fact, that the picture drawn by the hon. Member for Lanark, of the existing distress among the Hand-loom Weavers was even below the reality. He could well remember the once flourishing condition of this most extensive class in the town and district which he had the honour to represent (Belfast), where their number amounted to some thousands. He remembered when the quarter they inhabited was remarkable for its neatness and order; he remembered their whitewashed houses, and their little flower gardens, and the decent appearance they made with their families at markets, or at public worship. Those houses were now a mass of filth and misery, and their families clad in rags, were ashamed to appear in public. At the time of which he spoke, a weaver in Belfast could earn from 15 s. s. s. d. s. d.
 Dr. Bowring :*—Sir, as a Member of the Committee, and disagreeing,  in toto, *From a corrected report. 1165 1166 1167 minimum verbatim, minimum 1168 s. d. s. s. d. s. d. 1169 s. d. 1170 1171 1172 1173 s., s. s., s., s., s., s. s., s. 1174 s. d. 1175 s. d. s. d. s. s. d. minimum 1176 minimum 1177
 Mr. Fielden  supported the Motion in a speech of considerable length, in which the hon. Member dwelt much on the depreciation of the wages of weavers; but his speech was quite inaudible.
 Mr. Maxwell  said, he should feel it to be his duty to press the Motion to a division.
 Mr. John Maxwell  brought forward his Motion respecting Hand-loom Weavers, observing, that his object was, to make the House acquainted with the result of the inquiries upon this subject by Committees in two successive years. He had no wish to offer any obstruction to the business of the House, but he should be deserting his duty if he did not bring forward a subject which involved the interests and almost the existence of a million of people. He should argue this question as a practical question, and would at once proceed to the consideration of the effect produced on the condition of the Hand-loom Weavers by the present system. He would take as an example the case of a very intelligent Hand-loom Weaver, who was examined before the late Committee of the House, and who was well qualified to give information on the subject. In showing how the system operated on the wages of labour, he stated that in 1797 his wages amounted to 26 s. s. 1153 s. d. 1154 1155 s. s. s. d. Edinburgh Review, 1156 1157
 Mr. Richards  thought, that his Majesty's Government took the line dictated by true wisdom and policy, in opposing the introduction of this Bill. The speech of the right hon. President of the Board of Trade had given him great satisfaction. The principles laid down by him were consistent with those of political economy, and would stand the test of experience. He hoped, that the hon. Member would not persist in his Motion.
 Mr. Hume  contended, that the only
 1181 minimum s. d., s. d. minimum minimum minimum 1182
 Mr. Hume  was extremely happy, that the right hon. Gentleman had brought in the Bill at last. He hoped it would simplify the duties of these offices as much as the measure lately passed had simplified the duties of the Exchequer. Indeed he believed it would have that effect, and be likewise productive of considerable economy.
 Mr. Hesketh Fleetwood  was of opinion,
 1178
 Mr. Gillon  observed, that the Committee to which the right hon. Gentleman objected, had been appointed by the Reformed House of Commons, who, by arriving at that conclusion had evinced some feelings of sympathy and compassion for a large and distressed portion of the community. The right hon. Gentleman was unwilling that the question should
 1161 P. Thomson 1162 minimum 1163
 Mr. William Alexander Mackinnon : In the Motion that I am about to submit to the House, I can assure you, Sir, there is nothing whatever of a political nature. The subject is one of considerable importance, and requires most urgently the attention of the Legislature. Gentlemen here assembled are bound to promote whatever has a tendency to increase the facility of communication in the country, to promote its welfare and augment its resources. We are sent here by our constituents and are assembled to deliberate and to consult the interests of the great empire, the population of which we represent, not solely to be occupied in contention for political supremacy or to
 1184 l., 1185 
 1. The expediency of consolidating the management and revenues of several small trusts into one trust not exceeding 150 miles. 2. The policy of raising a revenue by some other means than by tolls for the support of the roads. 3. The possibility of establishing a highway police over the turnpike roads of the kingdom. 4. The eligibility of having a central board of Commissioners in the Metropolis, to control the financial department of the several trusts, but not to have any executive power whatever over the roads as to the management; which should continue as at present, in the hands of the Trustees. l. 1186 l. 1187 l. l. l. s. l. s. l., l., l. s. l. l. s. 1188 l., l. 1189 1190 1191 l. l. l.
 Mr. Clay  opposed the measure, because it was absurd that the House should be called upon to protect men against themselves, which was the whole meaning of the hon. Member's Bill. It was impossible to compel men to work, and the
 1164 s.
 Mr. Ruthven  must oppose proceeding with it before five o'clock. There were many members interested in the Question who were absent now, but who no doubt, would be in attendance at five o'clock. He was hostile to this adoption of a short cut in bringing on a motion, and in justice to the hon. Members absent, he would prevent it. This was, in his opinion, a very important matter, both as regarded the privileges of that House, and the purity of election. It appeared to him that the question was whether Mr. Clipperton should not be struck off the roll of attornies. He was astonished to see a member of that profession volunteering to bring forward this case. He should have the delicacy to leave it to some other Member. If they allowed professional men to shelter themselves under their professional cloak, while they dexterously employed others as the agents of bribery and corruption, it would be idle to talk of improving the representation of the people. No man could do so much mischief at an election as an attorney, in protecting bribery and corruption. The two individuals whom they had already had at the Bar, and who had there received a proper chastisement from the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair, had been received as triumphant victims in Ipswich. The same thing would no doubt happen in this case. It was to be regretted, that condign punishment did not fall upon the original author of all this bribery and corruption. It was said, that this person had answered all questions which a gentleman should answer. What distinction should there be under such
 1195
 Dr. Lushington  protested against the question which the right hon. and learned Gentleman had just put to the hon. Member for Wexford, which he declared to be utterly unparliamentary, and contrary to every principle of justice. "This is the first time (said the hon. and learned Civilian) in the course of my Parliamentary experience, that I ever yet heard one Member of Parliament take upon himself to put a question as to the religious sect and sentiments of another individual and independent Member of Parliament, and to require of him to state, in the face of the House and the public, whether he entertained the religious opinions of the Established Church, or of some other religious body. I tell the right hon. and learned Gentleman, that this House will not endure such inquisitorial practices, and I tell him further, that the hon. Member for Wexford will best discharge his duly to this House and the public by treating the inquiry with the contempt it deserves.
 The Chairman  (Mr. Bernal) interposed, and put it to the Committee whether it were proper that this irregular conversation should be continued. They were now upon the interpretation Clause, and he hoped the Committee would proceed.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was understood to say, that the amount which
 1203 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that by allowing the Resolutions now to pass, the hon. and learned Gentleman would not be precluded from bringing forward his Motion hereafter.
 Mr. Goulburn  rose to Order. The hon. Member for Middlesex had no right to impute to his hon. Friend that he was a supporter of abuses.
 Mr. Goulburn  returned his thanks to the noble Lord for the alteration which he had made in this Bill by the introduction of the present Clause. In the unanswerable speech which his right hon. Friend the Member for Tamworth had made on a former night, he had proved to demonstration that there could be no surplus to appropriate to the purposes of education, after the revenues of the Church of Ireland were reduced as this Bill proposed to reduce them, and the other purposes of the Bill were accomplished. Of that speech the present Clause was strong con-
 1207 l. l. l. l., l. 1208 l.
 Mr. Goulburn  thought it rather extraordinary that the noble Lord should be willing to pay 50,000 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that it seemed to the hon. and learned Gentleman who had last spoke that the case of a surplus was not sufficiently argued. On that point he begged to refer the hon. and learned member to the speech of his noble Friend (Lord John Russell), delivered at the close of the protracted debate on the Bill the other night, when his noble Friend went fully into the figures and facts of a surplus. If the facts there stated were true, a surplus did exist. The hon. and learned Member need not be afraid that the people of England would object to this vote of 50,000 l. l.
 Mr. O'Connell  remarked, that the disclosure of bad principles sometimes led to good. The right hon. Member for the University of Dublin had that night given them a specimen of his liberality of feeling—he seemed actuated with such zeal as to amount almost to spiritual ferocity. The hon. Member seemed to be actuated by the feeling that he was alone infallible, and that the law which he laid down must be right. He was glad that the hon. and learned Member for Bandon had at last shown himself up. Perhaps the House was not aware that the hon. and learned Gentleman had been secretary to the Kildare-street society for twenty-five years. He was the man to whom the superintendance of the education of the people had been intrusted. Could they be surprised that the people of Ireland were dissatisfied with the system of education afforded in the Kildare-street Society Schools, after what had fallen that night from the hon. Member. He had told them—and had been cheered by those behind him when he did so—that children had been educated within the walls of a convent. The hon. and learned Gentleman did not say whether or not there were any Protestant children in the number. What was the use, he would ask, of keeping up a church in a parish in which there were no Protestants? Were they to maintain a church for abstract Protestants? If there was not a single Protestant in a parish, what was the use of keeping up a church
 1218 1219 animus 1220
 The Chairman  stated, that if order was not restored, he must leave the Chair, and report the reason to the House. It was utterly impossible to proceed with the public business if seven or eight hon. Members rose at the same moment to address the Committee. He called on Mr. Shaw.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that this part of the Bill would open the door to the widest jobbing. The Amendment might as well propose at once that the fee should be always 2 l. l.
 Mr. O'Connell : Such an amendment would only lead to greater jobbing; for the Coroner would in that case have to summon such a Jury as he thought would readily grant to the surgeon (in all probability his cousin, or some other near relation) as large a sum as could possibly be granted.
 Mr. O'Connell : Yes, nominally the constable, but no one could reasonably doubt that it was the Coroner's Jury, for it was he who signed the panel, and the inquest was in fact his.
 Mr. O'Connell : Talk of Irish jobbing after that! At this side of the Channel it appeared that a person might die three times. Surely no Irish lawyer could boast of getting such a fee, and all for nothing. With the high opinion entertained by his Friend, Mr. Wakley, of the services of a medical man, he did not think any one would employ him on an inquest. He was present at 200 trials where medical men were examined, and paid for their attendance; and his opinion was, that they were not overpaid for their services, as they furnished material information. They talked a great deal of  sinciput occiput, extravasations,
 Colonel Sibthorpe  objected to proceeding with the Bill. It was a decidedly Radical measure, most unconstitutional, and destructive of all order.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  supported the Bill, because it was calculated to preserve order and correct abuses at elections.
 The Earl of Lincoln  opposed the Bill because it contained no provision against intimidation, which was as great an abuse as corruption. The Bill which the hon. Member for Middlesex formerly introduced provided for the adjournment of the poll in the case of a riot. He wished a similar provision to be introduced into this Bill.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer agreed  with the noble Lord, that intimidation ought by all means to be provided against; but he believed that by the present law there existed a power to adjourn the poll in the case of a riot.
 Captain Boldero  stated, that an account had been published of the shooting of three English sailors or marines near Bilboa. Supposing
 1196
 Lord John Russell  thought that the anger shown by the right hon. Gentleman was not because his argument had been confirmed, which ought to please and satisfy him, but because one of the arguments on which he and his friends relied was taken away by this provision. Gentlemen on the other side said, "Your pretence of having a Reserve Fund, as the incumbents of livings which are to be sequestered die off, instils into the people a notion that the benefits of education are contingent on the death of certain individuals; and is, in fact, an encouragement to the assassination of Protestant Clergymen—a  bonus 1209 l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Lord John Russell  said, that there was no objection to the insertion of a provision, in the Committee on the Bill, requiring an annual account of the money expended to be produced.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the explanation just given was exactly what might have been expected from the frank manner in which the right hon. and gallant Gentleman usually spoke. He agreed with the hon. and gallant Gentleman that any contravention of the rules laid down by the Board ought to be looked into. The rules, if good, ought to be observed; if imperfect, they might be amended. If they were contravened, an authority ought to be exercised to secure their due observance. He must say, it was a subject of regret with him that when the Government on a former evening brought this question before the House, the hon. Secretary of the Treasury under the late Government did not attend the Committee, and defend the present Ministers from the attacks of hon. Gentlemen opposite, to which they were exposed. Hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House had supported the late Government on this question; but they, in their turn, were not fortunate enough to have the support of those by whom the estimate was signed and proposed.
 Major Beauclerk , while he agreed with the hon. Member as to the necessity for preventing bribery and corruption, differed from him as to the degree of punishment to be inflicted in this instance. In the first place, this individual was not the chief culprit; and in the next place, a political court like that, was not the proper one for trying offences of this kind. As long as that House, as a political court, should continue to try such cases, he should feel it his duty to vote for the least punishment on them. He trusted, however, to see the day when a political court like that no longer exercised such a power, and when such matters were referred for trial to a properly constituted tribunal.
 Mr. Pringle  complained that the House was taken by surprise, and he said that they ought not to consent to the grant. He was not opposed to the education of the people of Ireland, but the present
 1212
 Mr. Charles Barclay  was not at all surprised that this proposition should be made. Had Ministers proposed, by a separate measure, a grant of 50,000 l. l. l.
 Mr. C. Barclay  moved an Amendment, to the effect that the fee to be given should in no case be less than 1 l. l.
 Mr. Charles A. Walker  said, that it was of little consequence to discuss the amount of Ministers' money, if, as was supposed, this Bill was to be rejected and not allowed to pass into a law by another branch of the legislature. He was himself a sincere friend to the Church of Ireland, and he could tell the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Shaw), and those who thought with him, that the real interests of the clergy of that Church would be best served by allowing the Bill to pass in its present shape, and that those were the enemies of the Church who opposed that course.
 Mr. Harvey  would move it on Friday.
 Mr. Harvey  had given notice to move the insertion of a proviso, but he had since altered the terms of it; he hoped, however, that he should not be precluded on that account from bringing it forward. The proviso he intended to move was, "that in every case where arrears of tithe for all or any of the years 1831, 1832, 1833, and 1834, remained due, there should be added to the rent-charge, proposed to be raised on the land from which those arrears were due, a further permanent rent-charge at the rate of 4 per cent. on the amount of the money advanced with respect to such arrears of tithe due from such lands; the produce of such additional rent-charge to be payable to the consolidated fund, in order to provide for the additional money that may be advanced, or be necessary to be advanced, to the owners of such tithes in arrear."
 Mr. David Roche  could not do otherwise than express his concurrence in the observation of the hon. Member for the county of Limerick.
 Mr. Dominick Browne  wished to remind the House that this 1,000,000 l., ., 1204
 Mr. Ronayne  remarked, that the hon. and learned Member had lost a good deal of time in endeavouring to convince them that he was opposed to the new system of education. The hon. Member had only to state that he was Secretary for so many years to the Kildare-street Society, to render any assurances unnecessary that he was opposed to a system which did not
 1227
 Mr. Shaw  said, the hon. and learned Member had privileged himself to use what language he pleased. He had placed himself out of the pale of all civilized society; and nothing he said could have the slightest effect on the feelings of any Gentleman.
 Mr Shaw : After the appeal which had been made from the Chair, would only say, that having heard the clergy of the religion to which he belonged, designated as so many cormorants, he naturally felt anxious to remove from a body of men whom he loved an imputation so foul and unmerited as that they were actuated only by the consideration of pounds, shillings, and pence. He wished to show, that the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had used a fallacy, to which he had often before resorted,—namely, that of confounding the religion with the Establishment. He would say no more about the matter then. But had not the hon. and learned Member in one of his letters said, that he would, if he had his will, have no Established religion—that he would let every one support his own religion? That was the hon. and learned Member's opinion; but was he justified in drawing the distinction he had drawn between the Establishment and the religion connected with it? When so many hon. Members rose in a manner which called forth such strong observations from the Chair, he was about to give his reasons why the hon. Member for Dublin had used the word "falsehood" to him. But, not to pursue that subject further, he would advert to the argument which the hon. and learned Gentleman had used in answer to the speech of his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Bandon, with respect to schools being established within the precincts of convents. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin said, "Oh! if schools are held in such places, what mischief do they do?" He did not attempt even to deny the fact, and surely everyone at all acquainted with the principles on which the Board of Education acted, must know that this was contrary to the rules which they had laid down. Again, the hon. and learned Member for Dublin did not deny, that the books directed by the Board to be used in those schools were not to be found there, and that the only books in use were Roman Catholic books. These, however, were facts, which were all capable of proof, and
 1222
 Mr. Shaw  said, in answer to the appeal made to him by the noble and learned Gentleman (Mr.O'Connell), that the Protestant religion did not consist in pounds, shillings, and pence; nor did he ever suppose, or say that that Bill, or any other act of a human legislature, could destroy the Protestant religion as such; but the Church Establishment of any country must be supported by money; and that particular form of religion to which the law annexed the property of the Church, constituted the established religion of the country—or, in other words, "the present Church Establishment, as settled by law within this realm." Now, that was the precise thing which the hon. and learned Gentleman, on his oath, had solemnly abjured all intention to subvert; and it was also the very thing which the hon. and learned Gentleman, in his published letters, since he had taken the oath, had declared it was his great object to abolish. [Mr.  O'Connell, Order, order! Order!
 Mr. Shaw  observed, that he did not intend to charge the hon. and learned Gentleman with perjury; but he contended, that he was perfectly justified in the argument he had used.
 Mr. Shaw  had a great objection to the principle of numbering the Protestants in the parishes in Ireland. He had letters to prove that threatening notices were served on Protestants to induce them to avow themselves Catholics. He believed with the noble Lord (Lord Stanley) that the measure would lead to disastrous consequences, and to murder. The present Bill was telling the people of Ireland that the Protestant religion was to cease in those parishes where there were not fifty Protestants. He did not object to the grant of 50,000 l.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that he conceived it was a very great hardship that the cases where the income of the clergyman depended upon what was called "Ministers' money" should not have been considered separately. If that part of the Bill which related to the property of the Church had been kept distinct from the appropriation provisions, all the friends of the Church would have been anxious and ready to give their assistance to effect a liberal and equitable adjustment of the property of the clergy. The whole annual amount of Ministers' money did not exceed 12,000 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that was not the first
 1198
 Mr. Shaw : "The hon. and learned Gentleman should first understand what was the question I asked, before he exhibited so much warmth. I did not enquire into the religious opinions of the hon. Member for Wexford. I believe him to be a member of the Established Church; and I believe the hon. Gentleman to have received the sacrament in the Established Church, a short time before the Return to which I alluded was made. The question which I asked the hon. Gentleman was, whether he described himself, to the question put to him by the Commissioners of Public Instruction, as a Member of the Established Church. The hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets has recommended the hon. Member for Wexford to treat my question with contempt. I can assure that hon. and learned Member, that that is exactly the sentiments which I now feel towards his lecture."
 Mr. Shaw  said, that certainly a most unfounded and incorrect report of what he had said elsewhere had gone forth to the public. He had seen it stated in some of the public prints, that he had said, that all those persons opposed to him on this question were infidels. He never said any thing of the kind. He would tell the hon. Member the substance, if not the very words of what it was he did say. He was talking of the different political parties in the State, and particularly of those who were called the movement or destructive party, and the conservative party; and he observed that those who were on his, the Conservative, side, would naturally be opposed by all who were restless in their conduct, revolutionary in their politics, and infidels in their religion, because they would naturally join the Movement party. That was what he had said. He admitted that he had expressed his belief that all who who were infidels in religion would naturally join the opposite or movement party; but he never said that all those who belonged to the opposite party were infidels. No one who had the least understanding, or who apprehended the simplest principles of logic and common sense, could for a moment argue, that because he had
 1200
 Mr. Finch  complained that the hon. Member for Middlesex had mixed together two questions which were quite distinct from each other—he meant the Municipal Corporations' Bill and the Church of Ireland Bill. The people of England were certainly not prepared to go the lengths which the hon. Member for Middlesex described; and he believed on the next appeal made to that people that the hon. Member would find that the constituency of Middlesex would not be inclined to support him any longer.
 Mr. George F. Young  said, that whatever might be the expectations of the framers of the Bill there was still a possibility that there might be a disappointment in the surplus which they expected to realise, and at all events it was obvious that this surplus would not accrue until a period of time had elapsed. He did not yield much weight to the argument with regard to the motive which this measure held out for assassination, but those who had used that argument should admit the force of the reply,—namely, that by the present grant such motive would be done away with. The evils complained of in the course of the discussion on this Bill were not chargeable to the system of national education now pursued in Ireland, but were rather abuses arising out of the niggardly supply afforded for carrying that system into effect. For himself, he was ready to concur in every vote which had a tendency to increase the spread of intelligence in Ireland. With respect to the present grant, although prepared to support it, he entertained one scruple,—namely, that it was placed beyond the control of the House, and he hoped, that some means would be adopted to prevent any misapplication.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  believed that the late hon. Secretary of the Treasury, as well as the majority of the House, did not expect the vote to be brought forward on the evening when it was moved.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, that he never in any of the previous years when the grant for education in Ireland was proposed expressed an opinion or gave a vote on the question. When it became his duty to bring forward the grant, he looked to see what had been done by his predecessors; and finding it was impossible that benefit should not result from it, if it were fairly and honestly applied, he did not hesitate to give it his sanction. He had every reason to believe, that the system would in future have his support, but he would frankly state that much must depend on its being carried into effect in a  bona fide
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, it had not been stated that the miscellaneous estimate would come on that evening.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  certainly understood the noble Lord to say the other night that he should introduce this Clause to prevent the "disastrous consequences" that, might otherwise follow. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had last year distinctly referred to the possibility of similar "disastrous consequences" ensuing from a numerical statement of the Irish Protestants. Though he did not dispute the
 1210 bonâ fide
 Mr. Warburton  considered that 2 l.
 Mr. Twiss  said, that it appeared it was because disastrous consequences were dreaded from the measure that Ministers now asked for the present grant out of the Consolidated Fund. He did not think it fair that Ministers, on the mere supposition of a surplus, should ask for 50,000 l., 1211
 The Speaker  said, that the matter was entirely with the House. He believed that the original understanding was, that the presentation of petitions should not be continued beyond five o'clock, but he did not think that the House had bound itself not to proceed with any public business before that hour. That being the case, and there being no other petitions to present, it was necessary to proceed with the Orders of the Day in their regular succession.
 Mr. Freshfield  moved that John Clipperton be brought to the Bar to-morrow, reprimanded and discharged.
 Mr. James Grattan  said, that the landlords of Ireland had had no concern whatever with the 1,000,000 l.
 Dr. Bowring : No  post mortem
 Mr. Cripps  said, that the Amendment was not his, and that he objected to it entirely.
 Mr. Hume  still thought it would be more desirable that the House should have an opportunity of discussing the subject of the grant, on annually voting.
 Mr. Hume  asked in what manner the House was to have an account of the expenditure of the money proposed to be granted.
 Mr. Hume  thought that it would be much better that the money should be voted annually.
 Mr. Hume  wished to be informed what would be the use of making any such compromise as that which hon. Members had proposed, if this Bill were certain, as they had just been told, to be rejected in another place? The Government might depend upon it that half-measures would not do. The country had already lost a million in this attempt to conciliate and compromise, and was still as far from a settlement as ever. He would have no objection to throw away such a sum of money, if peace were likely to result from throwing it away; because he knew that, with peace established on a firm basis in Ireland, he could save a million in a year, by the reductions which he should be enabled to make in the army now garrisoned in that country. He was glad, however, that they were to have another opportunity of discussing this particular question. In the meanwhile let Ministers make up their minds as to the manner in which they would act. He should recommend them to make this Bill as perfect as possible—to send it up to the Lords in that shape, and to let the Lords throw it out if they dared. If, as they had been told by the noble Member for North Lancashire, it was determined elsewhere that this Bill should not pass, let Ministers be prepared to do their duty, and to speak out manfully to the people of the united empire. Let them see whether the Commons of England will submit to have misrule continued, and peace denied interminably to the people of Ireland. Looking at what was then going on, he would recommend the Ministers, if measures were taken to destroy this Bill or any other Bill in another place, by the exhausting process of delay, to let the business of that House proceed regularly as before, and then, as soon as that business was completed, to adjourn the sittings of the Commons till the Lords had weaned out their own patience by the delays which they had themselves originated. Yes; he recommended the Ministers to adjourn the sit-
 1205
 Mr. Hume  wished to be informed who were the parties to benefit by this advance. It was understood that individuals, both lay and clerical, had taken out of the grant advances to the amount of about 600,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know in what way the money was to be repaid. He trusted that the noble Lord did not mean to call upon the people of England to pay for the support of the Irish Church. As an Irishman, he might, indeed, say to England—if you will maintain an Irish Church against our will you ought to pay for it. But, as an English Member, he hoped the noble Lord would explain how the money to be advanced was to be repaid. Surely the Commons of England, at this time of day, knowing the situation of the Church in Ireland, would not quietly pay a million of money to support what they considered to be a grievous abuse in that country.
 Mr. Hume  quite agreed with the hon. Chairman that this conversation should not proceed further; and more especially so as he understood that an opportunity would be afforded to advert again to the language of the right hon. and learned Gentleman, on the presentation of a petition on the subject. But it must be admitted, at any rate, that the conversation began on the other side. There could not be the least doubt that it began there.
 Mr. Hume  meant, that, if in another place, all salutary reforms were to be thwarted and thrown out, and if the public money were to be squandered and the public peace destroyed, without any attention to the claims of either reason or justice, it was high time to consider for what purposes the privileges of the two Houses of Parliament were granted. It was, therefore, for Ministers to consider and to act. How far the hon. Member might be correct in the opinions which he attributed to the people of England it was not for him to say. This, however, he would declare, that he did not believe that the hon. Member's version of the opinions of the people of England was correct. If the constituency of Middlesex disapproved of the opinions which he had expressed, either on that night or on any former occasion, they would act wrongly if they did not turn him out. He
 1206
 Mr. Hume  I accused no man of motives. I said that abominations and abuses existed, but I attributed no motives to any man. The right hon. Gentleman should know me well enough, to know that it is not my practice to attribute motives. I said the other night that he supported what I considered to be abuses; but I added, at the same time, what I believed,—namely, that he was most conscientious in supporting them, not as abuses, out as safeguards of the Establishment. Nothing has fallen from me this night which justifies him in stating that I have imputed improper motives to any man. l.
 Mr. Hume : No doubt the language of the right hon. and learned Gentleman was very charitable, and in the spirit of a true Christian. But did he mean to say, that the opponents of the conservative party in that House were infidels. The right hon. and learned Gentleman had said, that though all were not infidels, yet there were some among them who were  [No, no!]
 Mr. Hume  quite agreed in what had fallen from his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for the Tower Hamlets. The
 1199
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  was willing to admit to the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, that the intention of the Government was not to banish Protest-
 1213 l. l. 1214 No, no! l. 1215 No, no.
 Mr. Serjeant Jackson , was opposed to the principle on which the new system of education was founded. He rose, however, principally to notice the observations which the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had made upon him. The hon. and learned Member had alluded to the fact of his having been Secretary to the Kildare-place Society. It was true, that he had been Secretary to that society for twenty-five years, and there was no part of his conduct through life to which he looked back with greater satisfaction than to his exertions in support of that institution. The improvement in education in Ireland was, in point of fact, attributable to the indefatigable exertions of that board. The fact was admitted by the Report of
 1225 1226
 Mr. Pease  said, the sum now annually allowed was, he believed, 36,000 l., l.
 Mr. Phillip Howard  was induced to coincide with the hon. Member for Middlesex, who had not attacked the privileges of the other House. If those privileges were used to obstruct the public welfare, his hon. Friend thought they would be destroyed.
 Mr. Potter  objected to making the funds of the United Kingdom liable to the payment for the Clergy of Ireland. He, as a dissenter, could not consent to vote one penny for the Church of Ireland. That Church was to be supported by the land—tithes were paid by the land, and, therefore, the landlords of Ireland ought to pay all that was due to the clergy.
 Mr. Potter  objected to proceeding with public business before five o'clock. It wanted twenty minutes of that hour.
 Mr. Potter  objected to the discharge of this man. He recollected when a poor woman was before the House on a former occasion, in the instance of the Liverpool Bill, and when, through fear of her husband, she refused to answer certain questions, she was compelled to answer them. It should be recollected, that it was in this gentleman's house that the escape of Pilgrim had been arranged.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that the Protestant religion would not be extinguished in parishes where there were not fifty Protestants. He was surprised that the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Shaw) should now consent to a grant of 50,000 l.
 Mr. Wakley  hoped that this Bill, which was a subject of great consequence, and which affected the interests of all classes of persons, would be allowed to proceed. He could not help expressing his sorrow that a proposition for giving but inadequate remuneration to those without whose testimony a Coroner's inquest would be a mere farce, should be received at his side of the House in the tone and temper with which it had been met. The hostility which the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had displayed to the proposition really surprised him, because his hon. and learned Friend must be aware that there was an Irish Act called one of the Grand Jury Acts, which empowered the Coroner to give the surgeon four guineas. But his hon. and learned Friend was apprehensive that if the surgeon who attended inquests was fairly paid for his services that jobbing would ensue. He knew not in what manner these inquests were held in Ireland; but from the mode in which they were conducted in this country, he felt perfectly convinced that no jobbing whatever would take place under them. He considered the fee of 2 l. 1229 l. l., l. l., post mortem l. 1230
 Mr. Wakley : Oh, yes, there can; I know an instance in which there were three inquests held on the body of a woman in the London Hospital. The Coroner was an attorney, and I am informed that, after holding the first inquest, on proceeding to hold the second, the woman was discovered eating oysters.
 Mr. Finn : It is a false and atrocious calumny.
 Mr. Finn  said, a grossly calumnious attack had been made on his hon. and learned Friend by the right hon. Member.
 Mr. William Smith O'Brien  said, that it would only have been fair that the subject
 1197
 Mr. William Smith O'Brien  said, if this Bill did not pass the other House of Parliament, it was his firm belief that the Established Church in Ireland would not
 1201
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  would not look upon this Act as a final settlement of the question, but rather as an acknowledgment in part that the Roman Catholics and Presbyterians ought not to be taxed for the support of the Establishment. The Bill professed to go upon the principle of population; but even in this it was delusive. No measure which did not go to the complete extinction of tithes, as an Ecclesiastical exaction, would, or ought to, satisfy the people of Ireland; and this measure could only be considered by the opponents of tithes in that House as an approximation and a step to their total ex-
 1223
 Captain Pechell  thought that the hon. Member for Finsbury's proposition of substituting 3 l. l.
 Sir John C. Hobhouse  said, it was to his very great disappointment, on account of the high estimate he had formed of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, that he did find him opposing the grant which had been proposed by the hon. and learned Gentleman' spolitical friends when in power, and that none of the late Government were there to support them in their utmost need.
 Sir John Hobhouse  said, that on the night in question there were forty-one of the hon. Gentlemen opposite, greatly to his astonishment, who voted against that very grant which had been introduced by the right hon. Baronet opposite. It was certainly most unfortunate that when the vote did come on—owing, he would not say to any defection, but to some unaccountable accident or other—not one of the hon. Gentlemen opposite, who would have supported the Motion, had they not been absent, was present. That being a vote which was viewed very invidiously—that being a vote which was much objected to—it unquestionably would have been more fortunate for the present Government if the speeches which they had heard this evening had been declared on the former occasion.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  begged to say, that he came down to the House intending to support the vote, but he found the feeling of the House so strong in its favour that he thought he might be spared. Certainly he was prepared to support it, and if any doubts had been entertained of its being granted, he would have voted for it.
 Lord Morpeth  said, that the monies issued under the direction of the Treasury would be always accounted for.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, he had three Resolutions to propose, which he should then merely put into the hands of the Chairman, in the hope that the House would consent to take the discussion on them, when the Clauses which were to be founded on them came to be inserted. The noble Lord moved the first Resolution as follows:—"That advances be made out of the Consolidated Fund to defray the expenses incurred in the revision of the Tithe Composition; such advances to be repaid out of the rent-charges to be received by the Commissioners."
 Viscount Morpeth  said, the money would be repaid under the provisions of the Bill which had just passed through
 1202
 Viscount Morpeth  observed, that hon. Gentlemen opposite, one after the other, continued to repeat that there would be no surplus, he must, therefore, trouble the House with once more stating the grounds why he entertained the opinion he had adopted, although by so doing he might run the risk of causing fatigue. From the benefices or parishes which, under the operation of this Bill, would have no new incumbents appointed to them after the next vacancy in each, after deducting-thirty per cent., he found there would arise 82,327 l. l. l. 1217 l.
 Viscount Morpeth  was prepared to contend that, if the Bill passed into a law in its present shape, there would be a large surplus. He had expressly guarded himself against the supposition that he brought forward the resolution through an apprehension that Protestants would be massacred if such a provision were not made. He only observed that such an inference had been erroneously drawn, and one of the reasons which induced him to suppose it had, was to be found in the speech made by the right hon. and gallant Gentleman on the night when he introduced the Bill.
 Lord Morpeth  moved the Order of the Day for the House resolving itself into a Committee on the Tithe and Church (Ireland) Bill.
 Viscount Morpeth  would not enter into any calculation on these points, as the matter would be set at vest by a Return which he hoped to be able to lay upon the Table to-night or to-morrow.
 Viscount Palmerston  replied, that the only official information he had upon the subject was contained in a letter transmitted to him from the Admiralty, which was received from an officer in the King's service, dated 16th July. That letter stated, that three English marines, belonging to the steam vessel, called La Reina Gobernadora, having straggled to some distance from Bilboa, had been surprised and taken prisoners. One of them who made resistance had been instantly shot, and the other two had been marched about a league and a half from Bilboa, on the Orduna road, and there shot. This act had been committed, as the officer stated, in consequence of the order of Don Carlos that no foreigner taken in arms should be spared. That was, he believed, the only communication yet received on the subject. The unfortunate men were not marines in the King's service, but had been engaged in this country to act as marines in the service of the Queen of Spain. They formed part of the crew of a steam vessel, which, having been in Bilboa, had assisted in the defence of the town, and it appeared that they had been taken straggling out of the town. As this was all he knew, it was all he could communicate.
 Mr. J. Clipperton  was brought to the Bar, when the Speaker addressed him to the following effect: —"John Clipperton, this House has resolved that you have been guilty of a breach of its privileges; as you have aided and abetted witnesses who have absconded for the purpose of evading the service of the Speaker's warrant. This is conduct which, in your case, admits of no palliation. The knowledge which you have acquired in the practice of the profession to which you belong, ought to have warned you against the commission of such an offence, by impressing you with a just
 1249
 Lord Franris Eyerton  brought up a Report from the Committee on the Petition from Great Yarmouth and York, complaining of corruption. The Report having been read, stating that a witness of the name of William Prentice had this day refused to answer a question, on the ground that it would criminate himself, although informed by the Committee that he was bound to answer it, the noble lord moved that William Prentice be ordered to attend at the Bar of the House tomorrow.
 Mr.Williams  Wynn agreed in this opinion; and, on the motion of
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose with reluctance to oppose what might be termed a private Bill. He was of opinion that the Government ought not to interfere with the private business of the House as a Government. Such had been his uniform practice during the time he had been in office. There were, however, occasions when it became the duty of the Government to take part in such business, as for instance, when a private Bill touched or trenched upon the interests of the public generally; it was then the bounden duty of the Government to lay the case, as it affected the public, before the House. He was unwilling to lead the House to suppose, that he intended to throw the slightest blame upon his hon. Friends who had the care of the Bill—their conduct had been most fair and open; but as the collateral interests of the public were likely to be interfered with by the present Bill, he found that his duty compelled him to oppose them. It would be in the recollection of the House, that a sum of 240,000 l. 1245
 Mr. Keith  being placed at the Bar of he House,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  suggested, that as the subject would be brought forward again to-morrow, the discussion had better be allowed to terminate at once.
 Mr. Law  regretted the resolution at which the Committee had arrived, as having the effect of prejudging a case which would come before a criminal court. He must express a hope in concurrence with the liberal spirit of the noble Lord (Stormont) that no sentence of imprisonment would prevent Mr. Keith from appearing as a witness on the trial of Pilgrim, as he was bound to do by his recognizances.
 Mr. Scarlett  moved, that Mr. Keith be reprimanded by the Speaker, and discharged.
 Mr. Scarlett  did not wish to take up the time of the House unnecessarily, but the decision of the House on the question before them might affect the liberty of the subject. Nothing, therefore, could be of more importance. The effect of the arguments he wished to urge might be the difference between Mr. Keith being committed to Newgate, and his being discharged. Mr. Keith laboured under many disadvantages, some of which he had already stated. Another disadvantage arose from the peculiarly unfortunate manner in which that Gentleman gave his testimony; though he believed, that it was given in a manner perfectly consistent with a desire to tell the whole truth. Under all these circumstances he thought that Mr. Keith ought not to be committed to prison, but that he should be reprimanded, and discharged.
 Mr. Scarlett  did not doubt that the majority of the Committee came to a decision upon the most conscientious grounds; still there was much contradictory evidence before them, sufficient indeed to create a division in the Committee. He felt it his duty to remind the House of the extremely unfavourable position in which a person was placed who was brought before a Committee of the House of Commons. A disadvantage of such a tribunal was, that the defendant was submitted to an examination and cross-examination. On looking over the evidence before the Committee, he could not find any to substantiate the offence which Mr. Keith was reported to have committed. He was reported to have instituted a prosecution against Pilgrim, to induce his absence from the Committee; but there was no evidence of the fact.
 Mr. Scarlett  did not mean to impugn the decision of the Committee; his object was to show that that decision was not formed upon evidence of fact, but of words; and Home Tooke had said that it was true words were things, but they should be well proved by unsuspected testimony. Mr. Keith made a journey to Calais to make certain inquiries of Pilgrim respecting frauds alleged to have been committed by him (Pilgrim). The evidence of Mr. Wood, who accompanied Mr. Keith to Calais, was in complete contradiction to what Pilgrim deposed as to what passed at Calais. Surely, Mr. Keith's and Mr. Wood's evidence, together, ought to outweigh that of Pilgrim alone. He submitted, therefore, that the evidence of Pilgrim thus contradicted ought not to have been believed.
 Lord Dudley Stuart  said, the Motion involved the honour and fortune of one distinguished Officer, and the honour, and probably the happiness of another. He knew nothing of either party, and therefore his opinions were unbiassed by partiality, prejudgment, or friendship. He should give his hearty support to the Motion; and he believed that those who opposed inquiry were not the true friends of General Darling. Avoiding inquiry was a presumption of anything but innocence. He believed, on the best evidence which had been adduced as yet, that Captain Robison was an injured man; how far that belief might be changed if inquiry were instituted it was not for him to say. He should support it for the sole purpose of eliciting truth and doing justice. The charges against General Darling were two-fold:—first, on account of the Court-martial which tried Captain Robison; and, second, on account of the illegal punishment of two soldiers, one of whom died. The complaints against the Court-martial were three in number — 1st. Against its constitution. 2nd. Against the course of proceeding relative to the evidence adopted by it. 3rd. Against its sentence. The Court was, no doubt perfectly legal, as though there were actually nine Officers present five were sufficient by the Mutiny-laws. But then the general number was thirteen; and where there was no want of Officers to make up that number, any lesser one was rather against than for it. It was said that it was a packed Court. He did not mean for a moment to impugn the high honour of the Officers who composed it, but still he could not help thinking that human nature was liable to receive unfavourable impressions in a moment of excitement or under other circumstances, as well as it was liable to err in all cases. But there were still greater objections to the Court than either of these, and one of them which he should particularly adduce was that part of the evidence which related to the letter alleged to have been opened by Captain Robison. Captain Sturt, General Darling's private Secretary, swore on his oath that he believed Cap-
 1271 1272
 Colonel Leith Hay  said, that in taking charge of the present Bill, he considered he was doing that which would not only
 1247
 Colonel Leith Hay  moved that the Report of the Trinity (North Leith) Harbour Bill be taken into consideration.
 Mr. Hawes  saw no necessity for his being sent down at all. The charge against Pilgrim was one of embezzlement against the firm, and any one of the partners could prove it.
 Mr. Hawes  said, the conduct of the Committee was justified by the evidence. He would recommend the friends of Mr. Keith to urge his case  ad misericordiam,
 Mr. Aglionby  begged pardon of the hon. and learned Gentleman, but without wishing to prevent him from urging these things, he would put it to the House whether this was the time to do it. The question now before the House was, that Keith should be taken into custody. It followed, as a matter of course, that having committed a breach of the privileges of the House he should be taken into custody. If the hon. and learned Gentleman should afterwards think proper to argue upon the evidence in mitigation of punishment, he should then be able to meet him.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that the hon. and learned Member for Norwich had misunderstood a very large portion of the evidence. He did not wish to press hard upon the individual, but still something was due to justice and to the public, when a case of guilt so clearly established came before the House. Besides, it was not competent for the hon. and learned Gentleman now to argue that Mr. Keith was not guilty of the charge made against him, because the House had already declared that he did aid and abet in pre-
 1253
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that if the House passed the present Bill, they would affect most materially the rights of private property and the claims of the public, the object of the Bill being to erect a rival harbour, to the great detriment of the property belonging to the city of Edinburgh. As the Chairman of the Committee that had been appointed to inquire into the subject, he must say, that they had devoted many weeks to the consideration of the subject, and were unanimous in their opinion. He trusted the House would support his Majesty's Government in the course it had thought right to adopt.
 Mr. Horace Twiss  said, that the present case between General Darling and Captain Robison called for no such proceeding as that which was demanded on the other side of the House. The only instances in which the House could ever with propriety interfere, were those wherein the Judges below had misconducted themselves; for if they were to grant Committees of inquiry upon all individual cases which, under the plea, as was the case in the present instance, of injustice, they would never have done. The charges against General Darling were comprised within narrow bounds. He was accused of having made grants of Government land to his own connexions. His conduct herein had been bounded and guided by the law, and certainly it was natural he should favour his own connexions. He was accused of having instituted prosecutions against the Press of Sydney, but did the House know, as he had the ample means of knowing, the turbulent and disorderly condition of the Sydney Press, more especially of one journal, called the Sydney
 1275 Monitor,
 Mr. Richards  supported the Motion. He believed Captain Robison was a most ill-used man. He had been persecuted by General Darling in a most shameful manner, and that House was bound to inquire into the conduct of that General. Captain Robison had usefully and honourably served his country for five-and-twenty years. That House possessed a power which they might properly exercise in this case, of reversing the finding of a Court-martial. The only point the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Fergusson) could make against Captain Robison was, that he had read a confidential letter written to a friend, with the permission of that friend. Now really it was absurd to say, that a man ought to be tried by a Court-martial for such an offence. Nothing was more common than for officers living in a state of social intimacy, to read each other's letters; and a man who viewed such a
 1270
 Mr. Brotherton  was of opinion, that the postponement of the Bill would be a very great hardship to the petitioners.
 Mr. Hume , the short-hand writer was called to the Bar, and read his notes of the testimony given by Prentice this day, which showed that he distinctly and repeatedly refused to answer questions put to him, because he believed by so doing he should criminate himself.
 Mr. Hume  resisted the postponement, because he wished to see a good harbour created for the city of Edinburgh. The whole weight of the evidence taken before the Committee seemed to him to be against the argument of the hon. and learned Gentleman. He trusted the parties would be allowed to judge for themselves in the present case, and if they suffered in their
 1248
 Mr. Hume  moved, that Mr. Keith should be brought to the Bar now.
 Mr. Hume  moved that he be committed to his Majesty's gaol of Newgate.
 Mr. Hume  said, that that Committee had come to the resolution, that John Pilgrim and others were guilty of absconding to avoid being served with the Speaker's warrant; and that the said John Pilgrim, having at length been served with the Chairman's warrant, was prevented attending the Committee by being arrested on a charge of embezzlement, made against him by Messrs. Sewell, Blake, Keith, and Blake, under very suspicious circumstances. He (Mr. Hume) believed there was no objection to the House taking the proper and usual course on this occasion; he therefore begged to move that Thomas Moore Keith be taken into custody by the Sergeant-at-arms, and that the Speaker do issue his warrant for that purpose.
 Mr. Hume  moved that the Report of the Committee be read.
 Mr. Hume  moved, that Thomas Moore Keith he taken into custody by the Sergeant-at-arms.
 Mr. Hume  said, that this subject had been before Parliament for the last nine
 1265 ex officio 1266 The Sidney Monitor, 1267 The Sidney Monitor: l.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that as he was able to judge, not a shadow of charge was intended to be brought against the present excellent Governor of New South Wales. The hon. and gallant Member opposite had made a suggestion, but it was under the misconception that the present Motion accused Captain Robison as an individual, and that, if carried, it would immediately affect his interests and condition. It was no such thing, for the Motion related only to General Darling, and was merely for an inquiry to be instituted upon the conduct of that person. Let the House, however, bear in mind, that Captain Robison was now actually in gaol, suffering under a very severe construction of the very dubious law of libel, and let it also be recollected, that the very man who had contributed to put him in his present miserable condition had avoided—had shirked the witness-box on the trial of the indictment, and thus had evaded the cross-examination to which he would have been subjected on behalf of his victim. There were four distinct grounds of complaint, or rather charges against General Darling, into all of which it was competent and even incumbent on the House to institute an inquiry. The first related to the malversation of which the General was alleged to be guilty, in misusing his power of granting Government lands by partial allotments of those lands amongst his own connexions. The second related to his tyrannical prosecution of the press of Sydney, no less than fourteen or fifteen
 1273 viva voce 1274
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  briefly replied, and the House divided—Ayes 55; Noes 47; Majority 8
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  said, that it was with great unwillingness that he troubled the House at this late period of the Session, but he begged to say, that it was not his fault if the subject was not brought forward at an earlier period. He would state the facts of the case as they were related to him, and he would state them in the briefest way possible. At the outset he would state the nature of his motion. It was for a "Select Committee to inquire into the conduct of General Darling while Governor of New South Wales, particularly with reference to the grants of the Crown lands made by him, his treatment of the public press, the case of Captain Robison and the New South Wales Veteran Companies, and the alleged instances of cruelty towards the two soldiers Sudds and Thompson, and other persons, and to report thereon to the House." In the first place it would be found that the grants of the Crown lands made by the
 1255 l. l. 1256 l. s. ex officio l. 1257 1258 1259 habeas corpus; post mortem 1260 1261
 Mr. Wason  presented a petition from John Pilgrim, stating, that Mr. Keith was a necessary witness in his trial which was about to take place at Norwich and praying the House to permit Thomas Moore Keith to proceed to Norwich in custody of the Sergeant-at-arms, or of the gaoler of Newgate, on the 1st day of August for the purpose of giving evidence on the trial.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  would confine his observations to the point of Captain Robison having been found guilty of opening a letter marked "private and confidential," and mentioning its contents to General Darling, after having pledged his honour to Lieutenant Sweeney, to whom it had been addressed, not to divulge them. That point had been brought fully under the notice of his right hon. Predecessor, who had since left this country; by him the most diligent and careful consideration had been given to it, and the result had been a conclusion that the finding of the
 1268 1269
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  submitted, that as the House had agreed to the Resolution of the Committee, it was not competent for Mr. Scarlett to go into the evidence to show that Mr. Keith was not guilty.
 Mr. Tooke 
 1250
 Mr. Tooke  was ready to give the fullest credit to the Chancellor of the Exchequer for his disinclination to interfere with private Bills, but he thought that he had taken a most severe course on the present occasion; the parties had come into the House a second Session in the hope that they might succeed. The question was, whether the Government should, by negotiating for the recovery of a bad debt, obstruct a good measure. He considered it a matter of extreme hardship to those parties that they should be driven to the enormous expense of coming before Parliament a third Session to procure that
 1246
 Admiral Adam  observed that he had not only considerable local knowledge, but from his profession, great experience on the subject under discussion, and he would state most decidedly, that his reason for opposing the Bill was, that he did not believe it would effect the objects which the public desired, and the Bill professed to keep in view—namely, constructing the best possible low water harbour that could be placed upon the shores of the Frith of Forth. He was of opinion that the harbour, as laid down, would not be the best possible low water harbour. There were so many faults and defects in the plan, that, in his opinion, it would be improper to allow this Bill to proceed, as it would prevent others, at a future period, from constructing an adequate harbour. Looking at the Question in another point of view, he would oppose it. Immense sums had been laid out on the works at Leith, and it would be only justice to the public, who advanced those large sums of money, and to those who were connected with the place, that an opportunity should be given to them to place a low water harbour in such a position as would adapt these great, he might say, stupendous works, to it. It was ridiculous to sacrifice so large a sum of money, when by a small delay, arrangements might be made so as to make the best possible harbour, and profit by the works already constructed. The evidence completely supported him in his opinion, and he had not the least hesitation in opposing this measure.
 Sir George Grey  said, that it was with great pain that he felt called upon to say anything respecting two officers, who had both served their country well. They had to decide between two officers, one of whom was now in prison, and against the other charges of the most serious nature had been brought, and the most opprobrious epithets had been applied to him. It was not necessary for him to go into many of these charges or accusations, it would be sufficient for him to confine himself to some of the chief points of the case. The main question they had to decide was, whether this was a fit case for the House to take up, and refer to a Committee up stairs for the purpose of investigation. Did it appear that inquiry would lead to any useful practical result? He thought that that had not been shown. It was proposed also that it should extend over the whole period of time that General Darling was Governor of the Colony. The first charge was relative to the grants of land that had been made during his administration of the affairs of the Colony. Now, what was the object and use of inquiry into this part of the case, even if the facts which had been stated were admitted? It was undoubtedly true that most improvident grants of land had been made, but this was rather the fault of the old system than of any individual, and such steps had been taken as would prevent the recurrence of any such grants. It had been admitted that the regulations which had been sanctioned by the Colonial Office in 1831, as to grants of land in New South Wales, had been found sufficient to put a stop to this ground of complaint. What more then could a Committee do on this point after inquiry, than to express their satisfaction at the
 1262 1263 1264
 Sir James Graham  was in favour of postponing the Bill, in order to see whether it were not possible to recover from the almost bankrupt estate of Edinburgh and Leith the large advance which had been so improvidently made by Government.
 The Attorney-General  said, that in answer to the hon. Member, he had to state, that with the sanction of his Majesty's Government he bad prepared two Charters, which he hoped would be in complete concurrence with the Address from this House, and with his Majesty's gracious answer. One of these Charters was to the University of London—not as a University but as a College; it being proposed that it should be called the London University College. No power, however, of granting academical degrees, was to be conferred by this Charter; it would only enable that body to conduct all their own affairs, in the same way as they had hitherto done. The other Charter was for the purpose of establishing a Metropolitan University, with power to grant academical degrees to those who should study at the London University College, or at any similar institution which his Majesty might please hereafter to name.
 The Attorney-General  said, that no person was more sincerely desirous than he was of having a good harbour established for Edinburgh, the city which he had the honour to represent. It seemed to him, however, that it would be for the benefit of all parties that this Measure should be deferred till another Session. He should give his vote for the postponement.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  did not think it desirable (though he was aware there were precedents in favour of such a course) that
 1251
 Mr. Williams Wynn  observed, that there could be no difficulty in the House making an order permitting Mr. Keith to be taken down to Norwich, in the custody of one of its officers to give evidence on Pilgrim's trial.
 Sir William Rae  unhesitatingly concurred in the remarks that had fallen from the hon. and gallant Member. He did not think there was any hardship in the case, and the House, in his opinion, would do perfectly right in opposing the Bill.
 Lord Stormont  supported the amendment, in order that Mr. Keith might be enabled to go down to Norwich, to prefer the bill of indictment against Pilgrim on the 1st of August.
 Lord Stormont  said, that his recommendation to the parties would be to drop the prosecution against Pilgrim altogether, if this course were to be pursued; for if Mr. Keith went down to give his evidence in any but the ordinary manner, the effect of his doing so must be to prejudge the case.
 Lord Stormont  could testify to the high character and placed great confidence in the testimony of Mr. Keith. He could not sufficiently deprecate the resting the case on the testimony of such a man as Pilgrim. The Committee in fact gave at once a verdict in favour of an accused, and stigmatized at the outset the veracity of an individual who was subsequently to be examined as a witness on the trial. 1254
 Mr. Vernon Smith,  in the absence of the right hon. Baronet, the President of the Board of Control (Sir John Hobhouse) thought he would briefly state what had been done by the Board of Control, and what were their future intentions. The hon. Gentleman had neglected to state what the specific redress was which the petitioners desired. He had described the decision of the Company as faulty in respect to compensation; but he thought that it was so on the side of extravagance. As to the rule adopted, it had been laid down by Lord Glenelg, and supported by a great quantity of evidence and the Committee had determined not to open it afresh. It was not a question now whether the rule was good or bad; it had been necessary to adopt some one rule of compensation, and this had, after the most serious deliberation, been deemed the most advisable. The Company had already paid 250,000 l. l. l. 1278
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to order. The question before the House was, whether the question that had been put by the hon. Member for Lambeth should be answered or not. That question was, whether anybody else had spoken to the witness upon the subject of his evidence, since he was before the Committee? His answer to that question could not possibly criminate himself with bribery. There was, therefore, not the least objection to the question being put.
 Mr. O'Connell  denied, that it was a waste of time. The hon. Gentleman had used the word inquisitorial, and not improperly so; for what was the House doing? Endeavouring to trace to the source the worst species of crime that could possibly be committed—bribery. It was the duty of the House to sift the whole matter to the bottom. Suppose those who adduced Prentice as a witness should prove to be the parties who advised him not to give his evidence; or suppose those who gave Prentice the money were the parties advising him to refuse giving evidence. Surely in either case the fact would be most material.
 Mr. O'Connell : Why should not the witness tell who gave him the advice? Was it because the advice itself was felt to be bad.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the witness had already admitted receiving the money to say, therefore, from whom he received
 1284
 Mr. O'Connell : It would be much more extraordinary, and abundantly more absurd, if the House, having decided that the question is not one which would criminate the witness, there were to be an appeal from the decision of the House, to the judgment of the witness. It would be an excellent scheme of protecting—not the witness, but somebody else. It was not the witness that required protection; somebody else was the person to be protected; not the witness. The House having decided that the witness was bound to answer the question, he thought it was not easily to be conceded that the witness, after that decision, should presume to insist on his refusal.
 Mr. Goulburn  felt bound to admit that the House had no alternative but to accede to the Motion, as the witness still refused to answer the question. He had expressed his opinion in the Committee that the witness was justified in refusing to answer the question, but he was bound to defer to the decision of the House.
 Mr. Ord  begged to state, with reference to the Witnesses' Indemnity Bill, that on inquiry he learned that it had been ordered to be printed by the House of Lords a month or six weeks ago, since which it had slept, and made no further progress whatever.
 Mr. O'Connell,  Sir, I am exceedingly glad that, the right hon. Gentleman, the learned Recorder of Dublin, has no objection either to the principle or to the material details of this Bill. For if he had any objection he would, I am sure, have felt it his duty to urge them upon the House. It seems to me, Sir, as if he were influenced by his judicial recollections, remembering that when a criminal is convicted his only resource is to cry out for a long day—"Oh," says the right hon. Gentleman, "is it in the month of August you think of bringing in a Bill for the Reform of Municipal Corporations? Do let them live a little longer; let them flourish for another season of cold weather."— Oh, no, Sir, this prayer for a long day must not be granted. The days of the corrupt Corporations are numbered. It is time that the Municipal Institutions should be identified with the interests of the people of Ireland, and that an end should be put to the anomaly by which the affairs of 920,000 people are administered by 13,000. But it appears that everything in Ireland must in one shape or other, assume the colour of Protestantism, and every abuse must be
 1315 1316 l. vice versa, 1317 1318 1319
 Mr. Goulburn  approved of the manner in which the hon. and learned Member had brought forward this present Motion. And its moderation was the more remarkable when compared with the speech of the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down—a speech which was eminently calculated to revive all those animosities which would be much better buried in oblivion—a speech, too, containing most unjustifiable attacks against particular individuals. They came, too, with a peculiarly bad grace from the hon. and learned Member; for if there was one Member in that House who more than another should shrink from the utterance of these irresponsible attacks, it was that hon. and learned Member. But he should not suffer himself to be betrayed into an imitation of the course adopted by the hon. and learned Member, though he could not refrain from observing the strong contrast which it exhibited to the speech of the hon. and learned Member (the Attorney-General.) He came down to the House to listen to the statement of the hon. and learned Gentleman, and not to take a part in the discussion, for he confessed it without shame that he had not as yet read the Report which had been so recently put into the hands of hon. Members. It was a measure which should be discussed, not in reference to what had been urged by the hon.
 1320
 Mr. O'Connell : I withdraw it.
 Mr. Lefroy  said, that he had too much experience in that House, particularly within the last year or two, to be surprised at any statement which fell from him being met by the hon. Member for Dublin in the way, both as to manner and matter, in which his observation had just now been met by the hon. and learned Member. The hon. and learned Member stated, the Corporation of Tuam was, with the exception of one member, composed exclusively of Roman Catholics, and unless his ears had grossly deceived him, he also said, that he hoped the other corporations in Ireland would soon be similarly circumstanced. As, however, the hon. and learned Member denied that he had said so, he (Mr. Lefroy) would not dwell upon the point. But there was one statement which the hon. Member had certainly made, and he (Mr. Lefroy) was never more surprised in his life than when he heard it, namely—that the Corporation of Limerick was anterior to the Establishment of the English power in Ireland. He was at a loss to know from what King the Corporation obtained its charter. There had been suits in Ireland, which led to an investigation into the antiquity of the Corporation of Limerick; but he never before heard that it was established at a period anterior to the British Dominion in Ireland. Upon the present occasion, he would touch but briefly upon the general question; but he could not refrain from remarking, that the corporations in Ireland which it was now proposed to destroy, had fully answered the objects fur which they were established. They had proved eminently conducive to the maintenance of the connexion between England and Ireland, to the progress of civilization, and to the support of the Protestant religion, which was not yet abolished, although political distinctions on account of it were. It was said, that the Rill about to be brought in ought to be adopted with respect to Ireland, because a similar measure had been passed for England; but he implored the House to recollect that the circumstances of the two countries were widely different. At all events, the period of the Session at which the measure was introduced was an insuperable objection to proceeding with it. He appealed to the candour of the hon. and learned Attorney-General for Ireland,
 1323
 Mr. O'Connell  begged to explain, that the right hon. Member had given a meaning to what he had said totally different from that which he intended to convey. He described the Corporation of Tuam, and said, that perfect harmony prevailed amongst the inhabitants of the town of different religious persuasions; and then, he offered the wish which was so offensive to the right hon. Member—namely, that every Corporation in Ireland might soon be like that of Tuam as to that harmony. He knew that that was not the right hon. Gentleman's wish. The right hon. Gentleman wished for ascendancy, he wished for equality, and it was gaining ground every day. The right hon. Gentleman had also mistook what he said about the existence of Corporations in Ireland at a remote period. In the time of John, it was stilted that Limerick had been a Corporation from time immemorial.
 Mr. Lefroy  said, that the effect which was likely to be produced from such a measure as that proposed to be introduced, might be gathered from the hope expressed by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, that all the corporations in Ireland would soon be in the same situation as that of Tuam, which he described as being composed almost exclusively of Roman Catholics.
 Mr. O'Connell : I said nothing of the kind, and the hon. Member knows I did not.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he could excuse the interruption of the hon. Member, because he was aware that he could not comprehend what he was saying, [ Cries of "Speaker," "Chair," and ""Order."
 Mr. Randall Plunkett  said, it was impossible to discuss the question properly, because members were destitute of the means of preparation, unless, perhaps, the hon. and learned Gentleman had communicated the information which he possessed to a favoured few. It was not fair to bring forward a measure which was calculated to make an important change, not only in the circumstances of Ireland, but of the whole empire, at the present period of the Session.
 Mr. Ruthven  trusted, that the people of Ireland would obtain equal justice with the people of England.
 Mr. Henry Graltan  said, that the House was in possession of sufficient evidence to prove that the Corporations in Ireland were corrupt bodies. He was happy to find from the declaration which had been made by the noble Member for Stroud, that the Bill would pass through the House this Session.
 Mr. Shiel  said, that the hon. and gallant Officer was quite correct in his allusion to the absence of so many Members. It was true that the House was nearly deserted. The leader of the party to which the hon. and gallant Officer was attached was absent, and his absence was certainly significant. It showed that that right hon. individual fully felt the impossibility of resisting this proposal of Reform, exactly on the principle on which he had stated, that when a Reform of Parliament were once granted in England, it must soon follow in Ireland. Remarks had been made on the circumstance of no Report having been made on the Corporation of Dublin. No such Report was necessary—the House needed none, with this simple fact staring them in the face:—that although the Legislature had admitted Catholics to a full participation in the civil rights afforded by the Constitution, a body calling itself the Common Council of Dublin, had excluded them from that Corporation. Let there be a return called for from the Insolvent Court, and the House would then be in full possession of the ingredients of the Corporation of Dublin.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought, that this Bill was calculated to meet an exceeding great evil, in the suppression of disturbances which at present disfigured the whole face of society in that country. What he alluded to were the agrarian disturbances, which, although they generally originated hi some acts of local oppression, spread with the force and rapidity of infection, bringing within their vortex many who would willingly keep themselves aloof if they could. The Bill introduced by the noble Lord dispensed with the old system of Special Commissions, than which nothing in his opinion could be more objectionable. Those Commissions inquired into cases of outrage, of the perpetration of which, unhappily, there could be no doubt. The only doubt was as to the perpetrator; and in detecting this these tribunals were most defective. He verily believed that the Special Commissions retaliated by day the blood shed by night, and that in very many instances innocent parties suffered. The present Bill, if he had rightly understood it, directed the meeting of the Magistrates at Sessions to deal with cases of actual offences against the laws, and also authorized them to keep those persons within doors who were found out at night without being able to give a good account of themselves. Whilst it gave protection where it was
 1335
 Mr. Scarlett  would put it to the honour of every Gentleman, whether the House ought to be a party to oblige a witness lo do what no Gentleman under similar circumstances would consent to do?
 Mr. Scarlett  denied that Keith's evidence would be required before the Grand Jury, or that the trial would be postponed, as both parties were anxious that it should come on.
 Lord Francis Egerton  moved that William Prentice be called to the Bar.
 Lord John Russell  was of opinion that the House was not to investigate the charge of bribery. That was a question for the Committee to consider. He, however, understood that the House had decided that the witness ought to answer the question put to him by the Committee. If that was not the case, they had better decide that point first.
 Lord John Russell  then moved, that it was the opinion of this House that the witness ought to answer the question put to him by the Committee.
 Lord John Russell  said: After the an-
 1285
 Lord John Russell,  as he had been so pointedly appealed to by the right hon. Gentleman, felt bound to make a few observations. If this Bill rested altogether on a new principle, there would be some ground for listening to the recommendation that it should be postponed, but this was not the case. They had discussed the principles, and it had been resolved that there should be Reform in these Municipal Corporations, and in conformity with this his hon. and learned Friend had come down with the proposition he had then made to carry the principle into effect. All the great principles involved in the measure then proposed to be introduced, had been amply discussed and decided on in as full Houses as were ever assembled for the consideration of any measure—he alluded to the proceedings that had taken place in the English Bill. He would ask, then, were the circumstances of England and Ireland so different that the principle applicable in the one case had no force in the other? If this were contended, he, for one, could not agree to such a proposition. He trusted, however, that the state of the House would be such on the discussions on
 1314
 Lord John Russell : I have now to move that the witness be taken into the custody of the Sergeant-at-arms, in order that he may be examined from time to time before the Committee.
 Colonel Perceval  rose to order. The hon. and learned Gentleman, instead of confining himself to explanation, was making a second speech.
 Colonel Perceval  asked the noble Lord, whether certain districts in Ireland were not at that very moment under the operation of the Coercion Act? He wished also to inquire in reference to one of the statements read by the noble Lord, which alluded to an occurrence at Monaghan, whether certain parties therein implicated had not been acquitted?
 Colonel Perceval  must express his surprise that the proposed alterations and modifications of the Coercion Act should be founded by his Majesty's Government, on the extraordinary ground of there having been an increase of crime in the last year over the preceding one.
 Colonel Perceval  protested against a measure of such vital importance being proceeded with at a time when the House was exhausted, and most members had left town, and would not return again, unless there should be a call of the House. He must say, that he had fallen into a similar error (if error it were) as that into which his right hon. Friend (Mr. Lefroy) had been accused of having been led into, as to the observations of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, in reference to the Tuam Corporation. He had understood the hon. and learned Gentleman to state boastingly, that in the Tuam Corporation there was thirty-seven Roman Catholics and only one Protestant, and the hon. and learned Gentleman went on to say, that there was no religious discord amongst the corporators. Was it to be wondered at where there was such an overwhelming majority of Roman Catholics against a solitary Protestant? The hon. and learned Gentleman had also expressed a hope, that shortly after the passing of the present Bill all the Corporations in Ireland would be similarly circumstanced with that of Tuam. The hon. and learned Gentleman had been loud in his praises of the Bill; but in the same proportion that it gave satisfaction to the hon. and learned Gentleman, it filled him (Colonel Perceval) with dread; as sure he was that if the 5 l. 1325
 Mr. Pringle  repudiated, in the most decided manner, the motives which the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, and the hon. and learned Member for South-wark, had imputed to those who were left in the minority in the division which had just taken place—he meant a disposition to uphold bribery.
 Mr. Hawes  would, in order to facilitate that decision, withdraw his question for the present.
 Mr. Hawes : Has anybody given you
 1281 Cries of "No, no." "Withdraw, withdraw." Francis Egerton
 Mr. Hawes  said, there were two points to be attended to—the first related to the fact of the witness having received a sum of money; and the second respected the party from whom that money was received. The witness admitted he had received money, but he refused to say from whom he received it; and then came the question—who advised the witness to refuse to answer that question. He had told the House who advised him, before he refused answering. The question now was—with whom had he consulted since.
 Colonel Sibthorp  felt no doubt that on this Question, as on that of the Reform of the Corporations of England, the other House of Parliament, though often taunted as an
 1326
 Mr. Harvey  entirely differed from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. So far from the impression being produced throughout the country, that the House was acting with any tyrannical feeling, he thought the impression would be, that it was offering a premium to bribery, and a protection to those who committed it. For, after all, what did the present case amount to? A man crafty and subtile, as the present witness undoubtedly was, admirably well selected for the purpose of the concealed and deeper villanies of the proceeding,—this man was told, through the organs of daily communication, that the extremest punishment to which he could possibly be exposed, was to be sent to Newgate for the short remaining period of the Session. The crime of which he was presumed to be guilty—the crime he protected by his silence—was a direct attack on the dearest interests of the people. In what way was it possible for men of feeble fortunes, but of sincere and honest intentions, to stand up as advocates of the people and their rights, if they were to be assailed by a large and concealed fund, supplied from the overgrown wealth of the bloated creatures, who dreaded that in the crumbling of corruption they would be buried beneath its ruins. It appeared to him that one question more ought to have been put to the witness as a test of his sincerity. It was this:—"If you are assured of the protection of the House by the exercise of that power which, as the Supreme Court of Legislature, it possesses—if the protection of the law be thrown around your pure and honest conduct—are you prepared to act an honest part, and state by whom you have been employed, from whom you received the money in question, and for what purpose you applied it?" If the witness stated in reply that he was anxious to do his duty, hut that he dreaded the consequences of the penalties to which he would be liable, when those who were the foremost to urge
 1287
 Mr. Wodehouse  was of opinion that no
 1286
 Mr. Wodehouse,  who was one of the Grand Jury, was quite sure that that body would not be discharged, so that Mr. Keith might, if his testimony were required, appear before it in the regular course, after he had been discharged by the House. If he was then still in custody he could be sent for.
 Mr. Shaw  would offer no opposition to the mere introduction of the Measure, nor would he then discuss its merits; but he must protest against the notion of the Bill being passed in the present Session. He was persuaded that the Government themselves were not serious in pressing it, and would only remind the noble Lord (John Russell), the Secretary of State for the Home Department, that when he assumed the leadership of the House on the part of the present Administration, the noble Lord had announced that the Government meant to propose only two great measures—the Reform of the Municipal Corporations in England and Wales, and the Bill for the regulation of the Irish Church—the noble Lord at the same time stating, as his reason for postponing many important measures, such as the Dissenters' marriages, and the Ecclesiastical Courts' Bill, that it would be impossible to give fair discussion, and do justice to more than the two principal measures to which he had alluded at the then advanced period of the Session. And yet, were they now to be told that a Bill, contemplating such great changes, involving the deep interests and the many important consequences of the measure just proposed by his right hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney-General for Ireland, (Mr. Perrin) could be dispassionately and patiently considered, it being then within a few hours of the 1st of August, and the most natural part of the evidence on which the measure was to be founded not being yet printed. [Mr.  Perrin 1312 l., 1313
 Mr. Shaw : I rise to order. My right hon. Friend has made an observation, whether right or wrong I care not—but the hon. and learned Member has accused him of stating a fact which he knows is not true. I appeal to you, Sir, whether
 1322
 Mr. Robinson  observed, that if the Court of Directors had no power to alter their decision, the appointment of the Select Committee was a mere mockery. He would venture, however, though no lawyer, to give an opposite opinion; and could assert that the Directors had still 500,000 l. 1279
 Mr. Robinson  presented a Petition from the maritime officers late in the East-India Company's service, praying the House to take their case into consideration, with a view to their speedy redress. The hon. Member said, that the informality in the petition which was withdrawn the other day was in the present petition removed, and he, therefore, hoped the House would take the petitioners' very hard case into their consideration. The exclusion of the petitioners from the compensation allotted by the East-India Company, in consequence of the arrangement with the House, to their other officers, was most unjust. The hon. Member stated in conclusion, if he were unable to obtain redress by the present step, he should bring the subject before the House either this or next Session in a substantive form.
 Mr. George F. Young  said, that the petitioners did not come before the House, or the Board of Control, or the Company,  in forma pauperis
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, it was impossible for his Majesty's Government to allow things to go on as at present in the north of Ireland, where there was not security either for life or property. [ Laughter and Cheers 1334
 Sir Henry Hardinge  begged to ask whether an individual, who was assured that he would be protected by the Committee and by that House, in giving his evidence, and that he was not desired to criminate himself, ought to be made the subject of such a motion? Were they—first giving him the option, and assuring him of their protection, he being of course the best judge of what would commit himself—in the first place to offer him protection, and then to punish him? It did appear to him—with all respect for the opinion of the House, when it was expressed by the majority; and with all respect for the noble Lord—to be so great an absurdity, that he really could not understand it. It did appear to him—the individual who had just been called in having been told by the Chairman of the Committee, and afterwards on the high authority of the Speaker, that he was not expected to answer any question which might criminate himself—that this was a barbarous proceeding. To give him the option, and then to punish him for forming his own determination, was, he repeated, extraordinary and absurd.
 Mr. Warburton  thought a very fit occasion had arisen for making some communication to the House of Lords to consult the Journals of that House, with the view of ascertaining in what state the Bill for the indemnity of witnesses, which had been sent up to their Lordships, now was. He thought the present would be a very fit case for exercising the power contemplated by that measure. He believed they were all agreed that a breach of privilege had been committed.
 The Speaker  to the following effect:—I have now to inform you that it is the opinion of the House that you ought to answer the question put to you by the Committee—from whom you received the sum of 100 l. l.
 The Speaker  said: You have been examined as a witness before the Committee of this House to which the Petitions complaining of bribery at the Great Yarmouth and York elections were referred.  Prentice 1280
 Mr. Buckingham  thought, the Board of Control ought sometimes rather to be called the Board of "Obedience," from the readiness with which it accorded with the views of the Court of Directors. He considered, the case of the petitioners one of peculiar hardship, recollecting what valuable services they had formerly rendered to the East-India Company.
 Mr. Praed  objected to the question being put. It was totally useless and irrelevant. It could not be put for the purpose of deciding as to the conduct of the witness before the Committee. His offence (if any) was complete, when he refused to answer the
 1282
 Mr. Benett : Did you decline to answer the question in consequence of the advice of the friend you consulted?—I did. Who was that friend?—Am I to answer that question? My question is who was that friend?—I ask the Speaker whether I must answer that question? [ cries of "Withdraw
 Mr. Benett : Did any other person give you advice?—No, Sir. Did any person give you any advice as to your conduct before the Committee?—No, Sir.
 Mr. Hardy  considered it a mockery to tell a witness that he was not bound to answer any question that would tend to criminate himself, and then immediately to determine that the witness was bound to answer a certain question that was put to him. Who was to be the judge of the tendency of the answer? The witness was the only person who could say whether or not the effect of the answer would be to criminal him. Suppose the witness said hereceived the money from the agent, the next question would be, how did you dispose of it. Suppose the witness could not say what hi did with the money, would not the inference be that it remained with himself, and that he received it as a bribe?
 Mr. Hardy  observed, that the only question which the House had to deal with was, whether the witness did wrong in refusing to answer the question put to him by the Committee. With his subsequent conduct the House had nothing whatever to do.
 Mr. Hardy  said, that the House having decided that the witness ought to reply to the question, he was bound to abide by its decision, and to answer the question whatever the consequences might be; at the same time he was persuaded that the noble
 1288
 Dr. Nicholl  had referred to the authorities on this subject since he last gave his opinion upon it, and had been induced to change that opinion. He referred to the case of Blackstone  v.
 Mr. Hume  observed that the House had on former occasions interfered to stay actions of a much more important nature against individuals. As he thought it very advisable that the witness should be called in, and asked the question proposed by his hon. Friend, the Member for Southwark, he hoped the noble Lord would cones
 Mr. Sergeant Perrin  could not rise to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the better regulation of the Municipal Corporations of Ireland, without in the outset expressing the regret he sincerely felt that the task should not have devolved upon an individual more competent to do justice to it. He hoped that the House would extend towards him that indulgence which, even if he possessed a greater share of experience, he might fairly hope to receive, while he proceeded to develope the grounds on which he founded the motion he meant to submit to the House. Before he proceeded further, they would permit him to express a hope that they would not refuse him the liberty he sought, or object to provide for the better regulation of the Municipal Corporations of Ireland, after they had reformed the Corporations of Scotland, and passed a Bill for the reform of the Municipal Corporations of England. He certainly felt considerably relieved in undertaking the task, by the recollection of the ample discussion and full consideration which the House had very recently bestowed upon the subject of Municipal Corporations, which rendered it as unnecessary as it would be unbecoming to enlarge upon the principles on which a Bill of that sort must rest, or upon the advantages which a well-ordered and well-regulated Municipal Corporation conferred on the district with which it was connected. The subject to which he chiefly wished to call the attention of the House was the present existing state of the corporations of Ireland, and the abuses which had crept into those corporations—which abuses he considered rendered it imperative on the Government to bring them under the consideration of the Legislature. It appeared from the Report of the Commissioners appointed by his Majesty to inquire as to the existing
 1289 1290 1291 1292 l. 1293 1294 d. 1295 viva voce, l., l. l., 1296 l. l. l. 1297 1298 l. s. d. l, l. l., l. 1299 l. l. 1300 l. s. d. l. l. l. l. l. s., l. l., l. s. 1301 1302 1303 l. l. 1304 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1305 l. l. 1306 l. l. hon. Member: 1307 1308 l. 1309 1310 l. certiorari 1311
 Mr. Perrin  said, that the imputation which the hon. Member had cast upon him of communicating information partially to
 1324
 Mr. Nicholas Fitzsimon  did not rise to offer any opposition to the introduction of the Bill, or to enter into its details. He thought the former measure one of the most unjustifiable ever passed; but with the feeling of unlimited confidence which he possessed in the Government, of which the noble Lord was a member, he should be happy to join in passing a Bill which should prevent the recurrence of those disturbances which did occasionally take place in Ireland in spite of the existing law.
 Mr. Wason : Have you had any conversation with any person respecting these words, "Hold in your oath?"—I have not, Sir.
 Mr. R. Wason  considered the question to be a most material one, as it would ultimately affect the decision of the House. The witness had said that Mr. Pritt had advised him not to answer the question. Suppose it should turn out that the agent and the parties opposing the petition should have since advised him not to answer the question. The next question which the hon. Member for Lambeth would put would naturally be, "Had you any communication with those parties previous to your going before the Committee."
 Mr. Wason  moved, that Mr. Keith be sent down to Norwich on the 1st of August, in custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms, to give evidence, if required, before the Grand Jury. His reason was, that it was due as an act of justice to Pilgrim who feared that if the Bill against him were thrown out, it would be said that the result was occasioned by the absence of Mr. Keith, who was confined by the House of Commons. It was possible also that the trial might be postponed in consequence of the want of the evidence of Mr. Keith, and then it would be kept hanging over Pilgrim's head for six months longer.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  admitted, that many of the cases of the excluded officers were extremely hard, but must repeat his doubt as to the power of the Directors.
 Mr. Finn  contended, that all Ireland wanted was justice, and justice demanded the Orangemen should be put down—that the police and the Magistracy should be completely purged of them. How could it be expected that the people of Ireland could have confidence in laws which were administered by Orange Magistrates? The greater part of the police were Orangemen, the greater part of the Magistracy were Orangemen, and the whole of the Yeomanry were drawn from the same polluted source. In this state of things, it was not Coercive Bills that the people of Ireland wanted, but justice. The hon. Member adverted to the case of one Patrick M'Keogh, who was convicted of an offence against the laws in the North of Ireland, and was sent by the Magistrates to the South, with an appointment in the police. Instances of this kind were frequent in Ireland. The Marquess of Anglesey had wisely observed, that the people of Ireland might be easily led by a thread, but that no force would bind them. Let that maxim be borne in mind by the present Government, and acted upon, and there would be no need of coercive measures for Ireland. He spoke strongly, because he felt so; and for his part he would conjure Gentlemen of all parties and modes of thought to lay aside all personal and distinctive feelings, and act harmoniously together for the common welfare of the country.
 Mr. William Roche  said, that as a representative for one of the principal cities in Ireland, that of Limerick, to which the right hon. and learned Mover and his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Dublin both adverted, and a city which, as his learned Friend remarked, did assuredly possess a charter of incorporation long before the sera of the Reformation; a city likewise, than, which few in the United Kingdom had more reason to complain, because few were more aggrieved by the bad conformation of municipal institutions (bad at least in modern times) and the consequent maladministration and corruption which pervaded and deformed them, he protested against any delay in granting to Ireland the same simultaneous measure of justice and protection which (so far as lay in the power of that House) they had given to England. That to postpone it to both countries would be a great, yet as a joint grievance, would be the less irreconcileable to Ireland, but that to grant it to England and postpone it to Ireland must be felt and considered an intolerable aggravation and disappointment. That so exceedingly important, so inestimably valuable, did he deem this measure, that if his Majesty's Ministers had effected nothing more towards promoting the protection, the satisfaction, and contentment of the people; by this alone would they (to use an ancient phrase) "deserve well of their country," and entitle themselves to its warmest gratitude and confidence. That this measure alone did also well requite that House for the exertions, the happily successful exertions it made to reinstate the present ministry in power, and displace those who, if they condescended to make any improvement in municipal institutions, would assuredly dole out but a slender and miserable modicum of it. He proceeded to observe, that the higher or wealthier classes may pride and console themselves in our national glory, our splendid institutions, and the wisdom and dignity of our superior tribunals; but that these very remotely and feebly reach the
 1321
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  said, when a proposition came before the House for coercion, even in the most mitigated form, he could not avoid protesting against any measure of that nature, unless it were accompanied by other measures for bettering the condition of the people, and providing for them subsistence and employment. It was from the want of such enactments as these, from the want of some measure to protect the people from arbitrary expulsion by tyrannical landlords, that agrarian disturbances arose, and until means were taken to obviate those evils, every effort to restore peace and tranquillity to Ireland would be abortive. He trusted neither the House nor his Majesty's Ministers would delude themselves with the idea that this or any other Coercion Act would be an effective substitute for just legislation. With respect to the disturbed state of the north of Ireland, he could assure the House that it did not arise from any bad disposition on the part of the people towards each other. It was not the fault of the people—it was the fault of the promoters and stimulators of such dispositions in the higher classes of society. He referred to the seditious if not treasonable
 1336
 Mr. Williams Wynn  contended that the House had no power to put such a question to the witness. The House could indemnify witnesses by sending up a Bill to the other House for that purpose; but beyond this they could grant him no further indemnity than protecting him in giving his evidence.
 Mr. Williams Wynn : The question as to whether the person who advised the witness had committed a breach of the
 1283
 Mr. Williams Wynn  concurred in the Motion, inasmuch as he could not conceive how the witness could criminate himself by answering the question. If indeed the question had been put as to the application of the money, he then should have supported the witness in declining to answer such a question.
 Mr. Williams Wynn : Were you of opinion that the question might tend to criminate youself?—I was of that opinion. Are you still of that opinion?—Yes. Had you received any notice stating that you were charged, by the parties preferring these petitions, with bribery?—I had.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  proposed the adjournment of the farther discussion until Monday, which would be in time for the Grand Jury at Nowich.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  thought the House had better proceed to consider, whether the question put by the Committee ought to be answered. It was a question of great nicety.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that four baronies of the Queen's County, and a part of Kilkenny, were still under the operation of the Coercion Act. As to the second question, he could give no answer having no information upon the subject of it.
 Viscount Morpeth  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the better prevention, and for the speedier punishment of, offences endangering the public peace in Ireland. He said, that the history of the Coercion Bill, of the causes from which it arose, and of the provisions which it contained, were too fresh in the recollection of the House, and of a nature too painful to be dwelt upon on the present occasion. Of course, any law of that character could only be justified by an assumed necessity; and, if his Majesty's Government believed that the ingredients of that necessity had either partially disappeared, or been considerably modified, it would naturally follow that, in their opinion, the law itself—if the state of affairs did not permit them entirely to dispense with it—ought, at least, to be freed of every harsh feature which could be spared, and to be limited to the still remaining exigency. It was by such a feeling that his Majesty's Government had been actuated in bringing forward the measure which he was about to submit to the notice of the House. They were glad to think that the state of Ireland was so far improved, and was so far improving as to relieve them from the
 1327 1328
 Lord Stormont  presented a Petition from Thomas MooreKeith, praying to be discharged from custody. In order that the House might not at all be taken by surprise, he would postpone the motion for the discharge of Mr. Keith till Monday.
 Sir George Clerk  said, the way in which the Commission was filled up had given general disappointment. He admitted that many of the Commissioners were friendly to the Church of Scotland, but then, with one exception, their politics were the same as those of the Government. The unpaid branch of the Commission was above all suspicion, but the others were Barristers, not in high practice, some rather known for the active part they took in party politics, and others against the Church of Scotland. The people of Scotland were serious in their habits, they were attached to the Church, and could not be pleased to see such important interests left to the care of young men, whose talents at the same time he did not mean to deny.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that perhaps the most convenient way for him to communicate to the House what had recently passed on the subject of the loan for paving the compensation to the slave-owners, would be by moving that the Compensation Act be read, and that the House do resolve itself into Committee upon it, when he would take the opportunity of making his statement, and moving certain resolutions with a view to carry the money provisions of the Bill into effect. He also moved that a Copy of the Contract for raising 15,000,000 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said that his object in going into Committee was, pursuant to notice, to propose a Vote to give effect to such provisions of the contract he had entered into, as required parliamentary sanction. With respect to the loan, it required no confirmation, being contracted according to Act of Parliament, and, as far as that was concerned, his object was to explain to the House the circumstances that attended the negotiations and the conditions under which the loan had been contracted. He believed he was pursuing the usual course in proposing to go into Committee on this occasion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  con-
 14 l. 15 l., maximum l., l. l. l. l. 16 l. l. l., l. l., 17 18 l., l. s. d.; l. l. s.; s. d. s. d., l. s. d. s. maximum l. l. maximum l. l. l., l. l. maximum 19 l. l. s. d., l. s. d., l. s. l. s., l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d.; l. s. d.; l. s. d.; l. s. d.; l. s. d.; l. s. d.; l. s. d. l. s. d. l. l. s. d. 20 l. s. d. l. s. d., omnium maximum l. maximum minimum, 21 l. 22 l. s. d. 23 l. s. d. l. s. d., l. s. d.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was rather disappointed to find that the terms of the loan did not give satisfaction to his hon. Friend, but he hoped that on consideration it would appear more and more satisfactory to him. He was expressly precluded from the arrangement proposed by his hon. Friend, by the provisions of the Act itself, to borrow a part of the sum by way of annuity. He was rejoiced however, to find that his hon. Friend objected to the terms of the loan on the grounds of the flourishing state of the country, in which he was very happy to agree with him. His hon. Friend had objected to the annuity system, and said he could have contracted the loan entirely in stock; but the effect of that was, to prevent this loan becoming to that extent a permanent burden on the resources of the country.
 AN HON. MEMBER  observed, that he could not help congratulating the country on the good state of public credit, as exemplified in the terms on which this loan had been effected. If any insidious measure for tampering with the currency had ever been listened to by Parliament, most assuredly a large loan like that now proposed could not have been effected on the terms stated by the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer. The present loan differed from all others; all former loans had been raised for the purpose of carrying on war, the present, however, had been effected for the purposes of humanity, and for removing a foul blot on the nation.
 Mr. O'Connell  suggested that a revision of the composition might be allowed on the appeal of one-third of the tithe-payers instead of one-half. He also recommended that the period should be extended in which the appeal was to take place.
 Lord Stanley  agreed with much of what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had introduced this subject; but he differred from the conclusion at which he had arrived. He agreed with the noble Lord who had just sat down, that the Motion of the hon. Member would not accomplish the object for which it was intended. The people of this country, he thought, ought not to be called upon to pay a sum of money which was due by others; though he at the same time believed that they would not object to pay, if their doing so
 33 bonus 34
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he was by no means desirous of procuring for his Church that which it had been asserted he was, for in his opinion a connexion of the nature alluded to by the hon. Member would secularize the Establishment. The hon. Member for Southwark complained of the people of England being compelled to bear the burthen of the million loan to the Irish clergy. The noble Lord (Lord Stanley) on the other hand was ready to lavish the amount upon public works, provided he could first gratify his feelings by extorting it from the wretched people, who were unable to pay it. The noble Lord had talked largely of the mode in which he would punish them for having evaded the law, by making the tithe-defaulters pay up their arrears, in order that those who were not defaulters might not be placed in a worse
 35 l. l. l. l. 36 proviso
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to order. The statement of the right hon. Gentleman was untrue.
 Mr. Fox Maule  begged to state that if he had understood the Commission to have been appointed in the sense attributed to it by the hon. Member for Leeds (Mr. Baines) he would not have voted for it.
 Lord John Russell  did not mean to enter into the merits of the individuals, especially as he was not acquainted with some of them, in consequence of their residence in Scotland, and practising as advocates at the Scotch bar. He would say generally of them that they had been chosen with a view to fairness and impartiality. Neither did he think it any impeachment of that fairness and impartiality to say that the majority of the Commissioners were of his way of thinking on political questions, because not a few of those in Scotland who agreed with him in politics were the warmest and steadiest friends of the Church. Some were most anxious that a grant of money should be made, and others did not see sufficient grounds for refusing it. He would not make up his mind one way or the other on the subject, but as to any party bias in the Commissioners he was sure that the right hon. Gentleman was totally mistaken. What objection could be made to the noble Earl who was one of the Commissioners—a man of great ability, great knowledge, and as great impartiality? The same might be said of Mr. Mountstuart Elphinstone, a gentleman of whose aid any Government would be glad, and he believed that he had been more than once solicited to take office. Other members were known to be firmly attached to the Church of Scotland. The procurator of the Church was also one of the Commissioners, and the brother of two hon. Members, who had so far taken part with the right hon. Gentleman as to have voted for the Committee. It was fair to presume, therefore, that there existed among the Commissioners no feeling unfavourable to the Church of Scotland. With regard to the individual who had printed his hostility to the Church he had understood from those who were anxious for an investigation of the subject that it was only fair that some person attached to the Dissenters of Scotland should belong to the Commission—that it would be taken by the Dissenters as an evidence of impartiality, as far as they were concerned. They would naturally be anxious to show the nature and means of religious instruction among them. The
 5
 Lord John Russell  entreated the House to recollect that this was the seventh prisoner whom they had detained in his Majesty's jail of Newgate, on account of the Report of the Ipswich Election Committee. Therefore, without denying that the offence of Mr. Keith was as great as or greater than that of Sparrow, he submitted that the fact of their having afforded a warning to other offenders, by detaining so many persons, some of whom had been confined in Newgate for six or seven weeks, was sufficient to induce the House to come to some immediate determination on the subject. He could not help complaining—not of the noble Lord opposite, nor of his hon. Colleague behind him, but of those who had instructed them to say, on a former occasion, that it was not probable the evidence of Mr. Keith would be
 9
 Lord J. Russell  rose to move the Resolution, of which he had given notice, relative to the late Sergeant-at-Arms. No other opportunity had occurred for the Members of that House to express their opinion of the services rendered by that individual, and he had no doubt that they would readily avail themselves of the present. It was well known that the late Sergeant-at-Arms had been a zealous and faithful servant of the House for a long period of years, and that he had now retired upon an allowance, the amount of which would entail no additional expense upon the country; Appreciating, as he did, in common he believed with the rest of the House, the services of Mr. Seymour most highly, he would conclude by moving the following resolution:—"That Mr. Speaker be requested to acquaint Mr. Henry Seymour that this House entertains the highest sense of the exemplary zeal and fidelity with which he has uniformly discharged the duties of his situation during his long attendance in the service of the House."
 Mr. Pringle  said, he had various communications from Scotland, disapproving of the manner in which the Commission had been filled up. There was one of the Commissioners who had shown himself to be deeply and zealously connected with the voluntary principle, and the Secretary was known for entertaining such opinions on the Church of Scotland that it was impossible he could give satisfaction. The better course would be to revise the Commission.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that as he understood the Clause now proposed was that which remitted the repayment of the 1,000,000 l. l. 27 l. l. 28 l., l., l., 29 s. d. s. d. l. l., l. l. 30 mutato nomine, 31 l. l., l., l.,
 Mr. Baines  said, instead of complaining that the Dissenters, friends to the voluntary principle in Scotland, had too large a number of members on a Commission, which had for its object to make provision for all religious denominations in Scot-
 7 No, no!
 Mr. Shaw  said, he would not enter into the religious part of the question with the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. O'Connell), further than to observe, that if it was the doctrine of the Roman Catholics in Ireland that any connexion with the state would degrade their religion, it was certainly peculiar to that country; and he (Mr. Shaw) could not but think that such a sentiment would not prevail long amongst Roman Catholics there if once they could subvert the Protestant Established Church. The hon. and learned Gentleman was no doubt bound in duty to advocate the remission of the million to those who had resisted the law, for it was but a bounty to those who had followed the advice of the hon. and learned Gentleman himself.
 Mr. Shaw  would put it to the House who was most out of order. He had in debate drawn an inference which the House could not think was very violent or unjust—that in passive resistance and refusal to pay tithes, the people of Ireland had followed the advice of the hon. and learned Gentleman. Now, supposing even that he (Mr. Shaw) had been in that expression, (which he believed no hon. Gentleman in the House thought he meant offensively) in some degree out of order, still he would appeal to the House whether it was to be borne that night after night the hon. and learned Gentleman circumstanced as that hon. and learned Gentleman was, should not only violate the order of that House, but the rules of all gentlemanlike society, by such offensive expressions as that which he had just employed? It was however, unworthy of further notice, and he would turn to the question immediately before the House. Upon that question of the advance of the million, he (Mr. Shaw) was peculiarly clear, for he had advised that House not to grant it—he had recommended the clergy not to take it—and he had from the first declared that if advanced it never could be recovered from the tithe payer. His reason was, that he regarded it as a premium to disobedience and resistance to the law—as shaking the foundations of all property, and as a millstone round the neck of tithe property in particular. And was repayment to be expected while at the same time you re-
 38 l. bonus bonus 39
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that the hon. Member for Oxford was mistaken in saying that there was not a tittle of evidence to connect Keith with these transactions. On the contrary, he was inclined to contend that Keith, if not the only, was certainly the principal, person engaged in procuring Pilgrim's absence. Pilgrim's evidence on this point was, that Keith said to him, "It will not do for you to be subpœnaed to attend the Committee—you must go away." That evidence was confirmed by all the other parcels of Pilgrim's evidence, and also by that of his wife. Moreover, Keith went over to Calais to induce Pilgrim to stay away from England, and that fact appeared upon the testimony of Mr. Jay, the attorney. If the House would assure him that it was its intention to discharge Keith out of custody as soon as he returned from Norwich, he should have no objection to discharge him forthwith, for he had no desire to keep any man in prison vexatiously. House divided on Mr. Wason's Motion:—The Ayes 110; Noes 102;—Majority 8.
 The Speaker  said, that the usual rule of proceeding was, that an hon. Member having given notice of motion for a future day, was not at liberty to anticipate that motion, by making a new one on the same subject, without any notice. The present question, however, was one of privilege, and a motion having been made on the subject he was not prepared to say that the noble Lord was out of order in proposing an Amendment.
 Mr. Hume  was so surprised at what had just fallen from the noble Member for Stroud, that he must be permitted to appeal from his Lordship's judgment. The noble Lord's argument went to this—that if seven persons were all equally implicated in the commission of a murder, you would do enough for the purposes of justice in punishing five of them, and in letting the remainder escape unpunished. There had been six offenders punished in this case; what was the reason for stopping short and letting the seventh off unscathed? Those who had been confined for some weeks would complain, and with reason, that they had been unfairly dealt with, supposing Keith got off with five days' imprisonment only. He trusted that the sense of the House would be taken on this subject.
 Mr. Hume  moved the resumption of the adjourned debate on the subject of Mr. Keith.
 Mr. Hume  begged to submit a question to the Chair on a point of form. He wished to know whether the noble Lord having giving the notice to which he had adverted for Wednesday next, it was competent to him to anticipate that motion by moving the Amendment he had just read?
 Mr. Hume  complained of the nature of the transaction, as far as he could understand it. His right hon. Friend had contracted a loan of fifteen millions, for which he gave 100 l. l. s. d. l. s. d. l.; l. l. 24
 Mr. Hume  asked whether his right hon. Friend was going to lay any information before the House? If so, he apprehended that the Papers or Resolutions should be printed before calling on a Committee to agree to a Vote on the subject.
 Mr. Hume  felt the Government was in an awkward situation on the present question, for with every disposition to support them in their views, he was at a loss how to do so consistently. It ought not however, to be forgotten, that the first direct proposal for altogether sinking the million loan originated with the right hon. Gentleman opposite, the Member for Tamworth. He would also ask the hon. and learned Member for Dublin whether he would answer for the effect of the present measure in tranquillising Ireland? Let it be recollected that there were portions of four years tithes now in arrear, of which three-fifths had been paid, and two fifths were unpaid; and why, he would ask, should the persons allowed two-fifths be placed in a better position than those who bad paid? It was holding out a premium of resistance and would be a ground for resisting the payment of seventy per cent. He opposed the grant, considering that it would not answer the purpose.
 Mr. Sergeant Perrin  said, that
 26
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  looked upon the case of Keith as one of a very aggravated nature. He had originated the absence of Pilgrim, and was afterwards accessory to the continuance of it, not merely by supplying him with money, (as Mr. Clipperton had done to those whom he had advised to abscond) but also by undertaking a journey in person to Calais, and by their offering Pilgrim to relinquish the charge of embezzlement against him, provided he would still continue abroad. What, he would ask, was the report of the last Committee? That Keith had made use of this charge against Pilgrim to induce him to continue that breach of the privileges of that House which was calculated to thwart the ends of justice. What then was the House now asked to do? To deliver Keith out of custody, to prosecute that very charge of embezzlement which he had promised to forego, provided Pilgrim
 10
 Mr. Wason  contended that it was a perfect mockery to say that five days' imprisonment was a sufficient punishment for the offence of which Keith had been proved to be guilty; more especially when the witness Sparrow had been in jail for no less than six weeks. He was not aware of any case in which an individual in the custody of that House had been released without previous notice being given of a motion to that effect.
 Mr. Rigby Wason , to meet that contingency, begged to move,—"That Thomas Moore Keith, now in His Majesty's Gaol of Newgate for a breach of the privileges of this House, be sent down to Norwich in the custody of the Serjeant-at-Arms attending this House, for the purpose of being produced as a witness on any charge, adduced against John Pilgrim."
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, the hon. Baronet who spoke last endeavoured to impress the House with an idea that the friends of the present administration could not be friendly to the Church of Scotland. Now he was a supporter of the Government, and there was no man more friendly to the Church of Scotland. He had no means of ascertaining what were the merits of the paid Commissioners, but the unpaid were above all suspicion. If the former were not in extensive practice so much the better, because they could devote all their time to the inquiry. When first this Commission was proposed, he said the appointment should be made without party considerations, but he could not admit that it was sufficient objection to any appointment, in such a case, to say
 6
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  was extremely sorry that it was not in his power to vote for the Amendment to which his noble Friend had acceded. A careful perusal of the evidence convinced him that it was one of the most aggravated cases in his recollection. The noble Lord (Stormont) seemed to take it for granted that on Keith's return on Wednesday the House would at once concur in the propriety of his being forthwith discharged. He (Mr. Fergusson) for one, could arrive at no such conclusion. Neither the country nor that House would be satisfied that justice had been done if they consented to Keith's liberation. This man had committed a gross breach of privilege and the punishment for that ought not to be determined by the day on which the assizes commenced at Norfolk.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  remarked, that at present there were four millions of gold and one million of silver disposable in the Bank of England. He wished to learn from the right hon. Gentleman whether this loan of fifteen millions was to be paid in paper money or in gold, and if in gold where it was to come from.
 Mr. Estcourt  could not agree that Mr. Keith was the most guilty of all the parties whom the House had ordered into custody for this offence; nor could he agree that he was the person who originally procured Pilgrim's absence. He did not, however, mean to deny that Mr. Keith had favoured and facilitated Pilgrim's departure from Norwich, and that in so doing he had rendered himself guilty of a breach of privilege. There was not, however, a tittle of evidence to prove that he had used the charge of embezzlement as a menace to
 11
 Sir Robert Peel  had the greatest pleasure in seconding the motion of the noble Lord. Strong as political opinions were in that House on all party questions, there was always great satisfaction in finding one
 13
 Sir Robert Peel  was glad to have the means of refreshing the memory of the hon. Gentleman opposite, by referring the hon. Gentleman to a speech made in a former Parliament, when there was a prospect of repayment of the sum proposed to be granted. The hon. Member now said "enforce the law," and blamed him as having set a bad example on that former occasion. [Mr.  Hume: 40 41 l. l. 42 bonus, onus l.
 The Lord Advocate  was surprised to hear the junior Commissioners spoken of as political partisans and young Barristers. The very youngest of them was of four years' standing, a period which would entitle him to the situation of a Judge. One of them, certainly, took part in an election; but surely that did not constitute him a political partisan. It was not uncommon, however, to have political partisans raised to the highest situations. The Gentleman alluded to stood as high as any man at the Scotch bar for honour, integrity, and talent. The other junior Commissioners had been from eight to ten years at the bar. He had heard no objection to Lord Minto, to the Member for Dumfries, or to the Procurator of the Church of Scotland. The other members were well known for their attachment to the Church of Scotland. Perhaps it might be better if it were possible to select men to whom no suspicion of political bias could attach; but he did not see how it could be done. It was but fair that the Dissenters should have at least one Representative on the Commission. It was not, in fact, a party question. Politics had nothing to do with it, and no Commission was ever more impartially selected.
 Sir William Rae , on presenting a petition from Kincardine for support to the Scotch
 2 3 4
 Lord Clements  said, that he, as well as other Irish Members, objected to a permanent composition of tithes on the basis of the old system, for in numerous cases improvident agreements had been entered into. On this ground he was anxious to afford facilities to re-opening compositions now entered into. He was satisfied that the course he suggested was the most convenient that could be adopted. He objected to so large a number of tithe-payers being required to appeal against a composition, before it could be re-opened. His object was, not to make a reduction in tithes, but when they had been raised above their real amount that they should be reduced to their just value; or where the clergyman had received less than he ought to have done, that there should be an increase. He could not consent to the Clause in its present state; he therefore trusted that his noble Friend would consent to re-open a composition when an appeal was entered by considerably less than one-half the number of tithe payers.
 Lord Ebrington  said, that it was with regret that he differed on this occasion from his noble Friend, the Member for Stroud. If ever there was a case in which the House was bound to vindicate its privileges, it was in this case of Mr. Keith. Of all the parties implicated by the evidence taken before the Committee, it did appear to him that Mr. Keith was the most guilty.
 Viscount Morpeth  thought that it would not be advantageous to open compositions, unless it appeared that some grounds of complaint existed; and if they did, there would not be any difficulty in getting the requisite number of signatures. He thought that the Bill at present pressed sufficiently hard upon the clergyman, and he did not wish to add to his trouble. There was, under this Clause, sufficient power of appeal, and he objected to open appeals without good cause.
 Viscount Morpeth  thought that if there was good ground for complaint, parties were sufficiently alive to their own interests. He therefore should in this instance adhere to the general rule—that the question should only be opened at the discretion of the majority.
 Viscount Morpeth  would not attempt to defend the proceedings and the circumstances which rendered it necessary for him to call upon Government to remit the
 32
 Lord Stormont  had given notice of his intention to move, on Wednesday that Thomas Moore Keith be brought to the Bar of the House, reprimanded by the Speaker, and discharged. Since giving that notice he had received a letter similar in effect to
 8
 Sir George Clerk,  as author of the Report of 1813, wished to say, that though at that time he was favourable to having the maker's name stamped on weights and measures, he now entertained great doubt as to the utility of this Clause.
 The Solicitor-General  denied, that the cases referred to, proved that a witness was to be sole judge of the tendency of a question to criminate himself. If the judgment of a witness were to be conclusive, it would be easy for him to trifle with a Court, and refuse to answer any question. Suppose, for instance, a witness were asked, what his name was. There were cases—such for instance, as that of a returned transport—in which the answer to the question would tend to criminate him. Now, would it not be trifling with justice that the witness, here was to be left sole judge of the matter? An answer to the question put to Prentice could not by possibility criminate him. He received a sum of money (100 l. l.
 Mr. Pryme  was in favour of the Motion for two reasons:—First, Major Arthur
 58
 An Hon. Member  objected to going into the general question before the evidence had yet closed.
 Colonel Wood  said, he would not follow the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down into the history of the system of Orange Lodges, because that was not the question before the House. He would apply himself to that part of the question which related to the army. The hon. Member seemed to think that the Duke of Cumberland must be aware of the existence of the Orange system in the army. He could only say, that he met the Duke of Cumberland yesterday, when his Royal Highness assured him that he invariably signed the warrants in blank, and was not aware, in most cases, how they were filled up; and, moreover, that on some occasions, when he had been asked to transmit some of these warrants for the use of the regiments of the line, he had invariably refused. To show how the army viewed this subject, he would mention that a few mouths back three men
 85
 Lord Francis Egerton  reported from the Committee on the Great Yarmouth Election, that William Prentice had twice refused to answer the question put by the Committee, from whom he received the 100 l. l.
 Lord John Russell  said, that he owned it was with some regret he found the hon. Member for Middlesex had persisted in bringing forward the Motion before the House, for he certainly thought it was a question which must occupy the attention of Parliament both during this, and, as he believed, the next Session. He conceived that it would have been better if the hon. Member for Middlesex had waited until the evidence was more complete; but at the same time, as the hon. Member had thought it right to bring the question forward, he should not shrink from taking that course which he felt to be incumbent on him on that occasion. If, in the course of the observations he should feel it his duty to offer to the House, he should pronounce any opinion in favour of those Orange institutions, it could not be imputed to him that he did so from any difference of opinions particularly directed against those societies. While a Member of this House and of the Government he had ever been an enemy to all associations of the kind. He had not hesitated being a party to laws framed in the spirit of the constitution to put down associations which he thought dangerous to that Constitution and injurious to the authority Of the Crown. In this feeling he had been
 96 97 98 99 100 101
 Colonel Perceval  was not surprised at the strong terms of reprobation in which the hon. Member for St. Alban's (Mr.
 89 ipso facto 90 91 92 Belfast Guardian, 93 The Dublin Evening Post Evening Post Evening Post 94 95
 Colonel Perceval  said, that there was nothing in the evidence before the Committee to justify the statement of the hon. Member.
 Mr. Henry Maxwell  said, that he did did not rise so much in consequence of the call that had been made upon him by the House, as to answer the question that had been put to him by the hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. Hume). The hon. Member for Middlesex, in the course of his speech, read a copy of a warrant for holding an Orange Lodge, and it was inferred by him, in consequence of a note appended to the warrant, that his Royal Highness, the Duke of Cumberland, could not plead ignorance of the use that was to be made of the warrant, inasmuch as the note points out that it is a "marching warrant." The hon. Member (Mr. Hume) had asked him (Mr. Maxwell) to inform the House whether or no the note was attached to the warrant when it received his Royal Highness's signature? In reply, he begged to state, that no such note was engraved on the warrants. He would explain, in a very few words, the reason why the note appeared at all. He (Mr. Maxwell) was one of those appointed by the Committee to select the papers that were to form the appendix to the Report, and he was requested to explain the difference that existed between a "marching warrant" and an ordinary one, and he wrote the note at the foot of one of the warrants, in order that the Committee and the House might have the necessary instructions; but no such note was in point of truth attached to the warrants at all; and, therefore, as the bon. Member's reasoning was unsupported by facts, his Royal Highness, the Duke of Cumberland, must be acquitted of the charge brought against him of having knowingly issued warrants for the purpose of establishing Orange Lodges in the army. He was himself one of the persons who signed the warrants, and he declared, in the most solemn manner, that, until it transpired, in the course of the inquiry, that Lodges did exist in the army, he was not in the slightest degree aware of the circumstance. He trusted the explanation he had given of the manner in which the note came to be appended to the warrant would be considered satisfactory by the House. With respect to the objects of the Orange Institution generally, he was prepared to enter into its defence when the proper time arrived; but he did not
 86
 Mr. Warburton  said, that he was not favourable to the recommendation of the Committee of 1813, that the maker's name should be stamped on weights and measures, but he would have this system rather than the Stamping-law proposed.
 Mr. Warburton  was adverse to stamping, as it would only lead to illusory confidence.
 Mr. Warburton  believed the water in the Thames at London was better calculated for ninety-nine purposes out of a hundred for which it was wanted, than the water at Richmond. He alluded to washing and various other purposes to which water was applied, amongst which the drinking water, his hon. Friend would remember, bore a very small proportion.
 The Speaker  said, it would give much greater facility to their proceedings, and be much more consistent with the practice of the House, as well as more convenient to the Members individually, if the hon. and gallant Gentleman would take a note of any point which he wished to remark upon, and reserve his comment till the hon. Member for Middlesex had concluded.
 The Speaker  put the question of adjournment.
 Mr. Hardy  presented a Petition from William Prentice, stating that he refused to answer the question from no other reason, but an apprehension that it would criminate himself. He complained that
 48 v. v.
 Mr. Wilson Patten  was understood to concur in the view taken by the noble Lord opposite. He had done his duty in conformity with the wishes of the Committee by submitting his Amendment to the House.
 Mr. Wilson Patten  said, he intended to move an Amendment to the Motion of the hon. Member for Middlesex, and in doing so be must express his surprise at
 81 82 83
 Mr. Hume  proceeded: He would refer to the evidence, in corroboration of what he had stated. Question: "Under the date of the 13th of February, 1833, there is this entry; 'That a sum of 10 l. l. 73 "24th Dec. 1834. "That a document be prepared to be forwarded to the Orange electors of the city of Armagh, calling on them most strongly to support a Protestant candidate, and give their most determined opposition to the return to Parliament of Mr. Dobbin, or any other person professing the same Radical principles." "That it appears by the books of the Grand Lodge of Ireland, produced by its Deputy Grand Secretary, before the Select Committee of this House, that the undermentioned warrants for constituting and holding Orange Lodges have been issued, to Non-Commis-
 74
 Mr. Hume  was glad to hear the candid statement of the noble Lord who had just spoken, who admitted that there was some degree of doubt in the case; and
 56
 Mr. Hume  rose to call the attention of the House, to the evidence taken before the Select Committee appointed to inquire respecting Orange Lodges, as regards their establishment in the army, and to submit resolutions thereon to the House for consideration and adoption. He confessed, that he felt great anxiety as to the result of his Motion, being fully sensible of the great importance of the subject. Ireland
 59 "No, no!" 60 61 "That it appears, from the evidence laid before this House, that there exists at present in Ireland more than 1,500 Orange Lodges, some parishes containing as many as three or four Private Lodges, consisting of members varying in number from 16 to 260, acting in communication and correspondence with each other, and having secret signs and pass-words as bonds of union, and all depending on the Grand Lodge of Ireland." 62 63 "That the Orange institution of Ireland is unlimited in numbers, and exclusively a Protestant association; that every member must belong to a private lodge, to which he is admitted under a religious sanction, and with a religious ceremony, carrying a bible in his hands, submitting to certain forms and declarations, and taught secret signs and passwords." "The applicant shall be introduced between two sponsors, namely, the brethren who proposed and seconded his admission, carrying the Bible in his hands with the book of rules and regulations laid thereon. Two brethren shall precede him. On his entering the room, a chaplain, if present, or in his absence, a brother appointed by the master, shall read the whole or part of what follows:—'O Lord God of our fathers! art thou not God of Heaven, and rulest not thou over all the kingdoms of the heathen, and in thy hand is there not power and might, so that none are able to withstand thee? Who is like unto thee the Lord among the Gods? Who is like thee, glorious in holiness, fearful in praises, doing wonders? Thou in thy mercy hast led forth thy people which thou hast redeemed. Thou hast guided them in thy strength into thy holy habitation. Lord, thou wilt ordain peace for us, for thou hast wrought all our works in us. O Lord our God, other lords have had dominion over us, but by thee only will we make mention of thy name; wherefore, glorify ye the Lord in the fires, even the name of the Lord God of Israel in the isles of the sea.' During the reading of this the candidate shall stand at the foot of the table, the brethren all standing also in their places, and strictly silent. The Master shall then say, 'Friend, what dost thou desire in this meeting of true Orangemen?' and the candidate shall answer, 'Of my own free will and accord I desire admission into your loyal institution.' Master; 'Who will vouch for this friend that he is a true Protestant and loyal subject? (The sponsors shall bow to the Master, and signify the same, each mentioning his own name). Master; 'What do you carry in your hand?' Candidate; 'The Word of God.' Master; 'Under the assurance of these worthy brothers, we will trust that you also carry it in your heart. What is the other book?' Candidate; 'The book of your rules and regulations.' Master; 'Under the like assurance, we will further trust that you will study them well, and that you will obey them in all lawful matters. Therefore we gladly receive you
 64 65 
 
 "1. The Orange Institution consists of an unlimited number of brethren, whose admission is not regulated by any other test than those of their religious character and principles. "2. No person who at any time has been a Roman Catholic can be admitted into the Institution, except by special application to the Grand Lodge, or Grand Committee, accompanied by certificates and testimonials, transmitted through the Grand Secretary of his county, which shall be so perfectly satisfactory as to produce a unanimous vote on the occasion. "3. Any member of the Orange Institution who shall print or circulate anything connected with the Institution affecting its character, or the character of any of its members, without the sanction of the Grand Lodge or of the Grand Committee, shall be expelled by the Grand Lodge. "4. That every member of the Orange Institution shall belong to a private Lodge, and that no person shall be proposed as a member of a committee unless the Lodge to which he belongs is mentioned." 66 "That no Lodge can be constituted without a warrant of the Grand Lodge of Ireland, signed by the Grand Master and Office-bearers for the time being, and having the seal of the Grand Lodge thereto affixed.
 Mr. Hume (interrupting).—1 stated facts, which it is impossible to contradict respecting the formation of Orange Lodges among the Limerick Police.
 Mr. Hume : Yes, and I proved it by reference to the evidence of Francis Kennedy.
 Mr. Hume  Let him deny it again, if he pleases. I produced the certificate and number of the lodge held at Malta, and the right hon. Baronet, had he been in the House, might have seen it.
 Mr. Hume : I copied out with my own hand the parts of the evidence which
 105
 Mr. Hume : That would be dictation to his Majesty.
 Mr. Hume  begged, before the question of adjournment was put, to state that nothing could be more consonant with his wishes than the view which had been taken by the noble Lord at the head of the Home Department. If any intimation had been given to him that an opportunity for explanation should be given to the illustrious personage, he should not have named the illustrious Duke in his resolutions. He, however, fully concurred in the justice and propriety of the noble Lord's proposal.
 Mr. Sheil  said, after what had fallen from the noble Lord, the Member for Stroud, he should move, that the debate be adjourned until Tuesday next.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  opposed the Motion, and said, that a decision in support of Major Arthur had been repeatedly-made by different parties. The sentence
 57
 Mr. Estcourt  had received communications from various parts of the country, urging him to continue his opposition to the stamping Clause.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  hoped the noble Lord would at once grant the Motion of which he had given notice. Such a course would be received with gratitude by Colonel Bradley, would be agreeable to the military profession, and would save this House the necessity of occupying its time by a painful discussion. He had prepared a list of
 50 51 52 l. George Arthur appeared personally before me, and made oath, that he is the person entitled to half-pay, as a reduced officer of the York Chasseurs, and that he had not during any part of this period, from the 25th of October 1819, to the 21st of February, 1821, both days inclusive, any other place or employment of profit, civil or military, under his Brittanic Majesty, or in the service of any other government, besides his half-pay, except superintendent and commandant of militia. (signed) GEORGE ARTH Sworn before me at Honduras, this 21st of February, 1831. (signed) JAMES HYDE, Magistrate for Belize. l. ex parte 53
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  in reply, said, that the Commission made use of by Major Arthur was considered to be a forgery; but, even if it had been real, that it could not have entitled Major Arthur to take the command.
 Mr. Houldsworth  said, it would be better at once to throw out the Bill itself than to omit the stamping Clause.
 Mr. Finn  said, that having seconded the original Resolution, he felt himself called upon to expose a system, the professors of which had been trained to blood and crime from the first three months after it came into existence.
 Mr. Finn  proceeded to address the House, and said that Orangeism had increased in England and Scotland to a degree which hon. Members were not aware of, and which would soon compel them to look at home. He held in his hand the book of Laws and Ordinances of the Grand Orange Lodges of Great Britain, published under the authority of the Grand Master, the Duke of Cumberland. The hon. Member then proceeded to read some extracts from the pamphlet in question, commenting upon them as he went along. These rules and ordinances were directed against the encroachments of the Catholics in the United Kingdom, and were for the most part the same as those of the Orange Lodges in Ireland. And this was all to protect the Protestant religion. These rules and ordinances were a mockery and an outrage against all the principles of the Christian religion. The fee of admission into these lodges was 15 s. 84
 Sir Charles Dalbiac  considered, that it would be an act attendant with extreme danger and injustice if the House sanctioned the precedent the hon. Member for Finsbury wished to establish.
 Sir Francis Burdett  must still remain of opinion, that whatever water the people did drink, however small the consumption, should be good, and they should be supplied with an ample sufficiency of it. He thought every working man should be able to get plenty of water without having to pay for it.
 Sir Francis Burdett  maintained, that it would be impossible to obtain pure water below Teddington. The public would be satisfied with no water taken from below Richmond-bridge. Surely, his hon. Friend would not deny that the tide ran up to Richmond. He would rather the Bill should be deferred to another Session, than be carried with this Clause so altered, as it would be tricking the public out of the point from which the Company originally proposed to take their water.
 Mr. Ward  hesitated not to say, that if the House consented to the Amendment which had been proposed, they would shrink from the performance of their duty. After the inquiry instituted to examine into the state of Orange Lodges had proceeded a considerable way in the investigation, it was ascertained that the system had been introduced into the army, and prevailed to a considerable extent. The facts relating to this part of the subject had, as far as they went, been fairly stated by the hon. Member for Middlesex, whose speech gave a fair specimen of the whole of the evidence which would ultimately be submitted to the House; and the Resolutions which the hon. Member had proposed, naturally arose out of these facts, and were founded on them. This organized plan of Orange Lodges had, it appeared, extended itself to regiments in Canada and Malta, and the Grand Committee of the Society expressed their satisfaction at the cheering accounts which they had received from the regiments in those quarters. What right, he asked, had the Orange Lodges thus illegitimately and unconstitutionally to interfere with the British soldier, and convey an insinuation into the minds of these men that a private association of this description could in any way influence their welfare, and, perhaps, in opposition to their military
 87 s. 88
 Sir Robert Peel  rose and said, he was most anxious now to state very shortly to the House the view which he had taken of this question, because on Tuesday next he might perchance not have the opportunity of stating the conclusion to which he had come upon the question, previous to the speech made by the noble Lord opposite, and to which conclusion notwithstanding that speech, he was still inclined to adhere. He had understood the
 102 103 "Oh! Oh! 104
 Sir Robert Peel : When I am called upon to affirm facts which implicate thirty regiments, I should have certain and irrefragable evidence that such a formal Resolution is not open to objection on account of its inaccuracy. Suppose, for instance, we had affirmed this Resolution as to the colonies. It had been shown that evening, and fortunately in time that the assertion of such a principle would have been incorrect. Had hon. Gentlemen taken the trouble of considering that this was an inconvenience to which the House ought not to be exposed? The course which he would acquiesce in was this; he would vote for a general Resolution descriptive of the constitution of the Orange Lodges—in a word for that Resolution which had formed the groundwork of the second Resolution moved by the hon. Gentleman, and which would answer every purpose contemplated by the hon. Member for Middlesex. He should then be prepared to acquiesce in the Motion, that an humble Address be presented to his Majesty, praying that he would be graciously pleased to allow evidence which had been taken to be laid before him. He should then have been prepared to acquiesce in a resolution that his Majesty be pleased to direct his Royal attention (that by-the-by was a new form of Address) to the nature and extent of the formation of Orange Lodges in his Majesty's army.
 Sir Robert Peel,  If you can establish that fact, I say at once that I have no objection to agree to this Resolution. But when, as his notorious, nine-tenths of the House which I am now addressing have not examined the evidence taken before this Committee, there is a great inconvenience in affirming such a resolution as that to which I have been adverting.
 Sir Robert Peel : The officer in command at Malta denies it  in toto.
 Sir Robert Peel : The hon. Member has also made the same charges against "other corps," as, for instance, the Sappers and Miners.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that he should vote against the Motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury on three grounds:— First, on the ground (and that embraced, perhaps, all the merits of the case) that the conduct of Colonel Bradley was subversive of all military discipline. Secondly, on the ground that the case had been already decided by the competent authorities, against whom no suspicion could be raised, and who came to an unanimous decision on the subject. And, thirdly, on the ground that that House had already decided the case, according to the testimony of an hon. Member opposite, twelve times. There never would be an end to cases of this sort, if repeated decisions come to by that House were not finally agreed to. Every applicant would be encouraged to make the same repeated appeals, and the time of the House would be fruitlessly taken up. He begged to assure the hon. Member for Finsbury, that those were the grounds on which he opposed the Motion, and that his opposition was not influenced by any desire to screen the conduct of the Horse-Guards in this matter.
 Sir Robert Peel  was aware that it was quite impossible that loyalty so sensitive as that of the hon. Gentleman could easily be satisfied. In future, when he heard any reflection cast upon the hon. Member for Middlesex, either for want of loyalty or for want of decorum, he should always be ready to state that when he had proposed to ask the Crown to grant a certain species of inquiry, the hon. Member had significantly shaken his head and cried out "No, no," and declared that such a course of proceeding would be dictating to his Majesty. He acquiesced in the Motion of the hon. Member calling for the number of the lodges in which these warrants had been registered, and must concur with him in asking how these warrants
 106 107
 Sir Samuel Whalley  complained, that the Lords had so altered the Clause which previously compelled the Company
 46
 Mr. Clay  said, that the Select Committee of the House of Lords had been occupied in hearing evidence on this subject from the 3rd of June to the 30th of July, and the result of the investigation was, that the Company should not take their water from below a point 350 yards above Kew-bridge. It was demonstrated by the evidence before that Committee, that that point was beyond the tide. The supply, therefore, derived from such a quarter would be free from suspicion. An enormous expense—indeed a difference to the amount of 300,000 l.
 Mr. Clay  was sure that the water would be taken from the point originally contemplated—nearly opposite Sion House. No London sewer, however large, would have its contents carried up so far by the tide.
 Lord Ebrington,  referring to the division on the former discussion, by which the stamping Clause (19th) had been omitted, said he would persist in proposing the re-introduction of that Clause on the bringing up of the Report. The present Clause, however, involved the principle of the one which had been rejected, as it contained the machinery of stamping, and notwithstanding the result of the division on the other Clause, he should persist in proposing this.
 Viscount Howick  contended that the existence of Orange Lodges in the army was contrary to the orders of the army, and was a subject that must undergo immediate inquiry. In order to show how anxious Lord Hill was on the point, he would read to the House a letter written by his direction to Sir Edward Blakeney, now commander of the troops in Ireland. Letters to the same effect had also been addressed to the senior officer of the district in which the King's Dragoon Guards were stationed, and to the Major General commanding in Scotland. On the 30th of July, he had received a letter from Lord Hill, communicating those facts, which he would read to the House. The letter addressed to him was as follows:—
 Horse Guards, 30th July, 1835. My Lord,—I have had the honour to receive your Lordship's letter of the 27th instant, transmitting the copy of a letter which you had received from Mr. Hume, on the subject of the asserted existence of Orange Lodges in some of the regiments now quartered in Ireland. I have, in consequence, caused the letters, of which the inclosed are copies, to be addressed to Sir Edward Blakeney, who is in temporary charge of the troops in Ireland, to the senior officer of the district in which the King's Dragoon Guards are stationed in England, and to the Major-General commanding in Scotland, it appearing that the dépôt of the 64th, which had been for some time under orders for North Britain, had actually arrived there from Ireland. I will take care to forward the reports of these officers to your Lordship, as soon as they reach me, and, in the mean time, I think it right to state, that Lieutenant-Colonel Dixon, who is mentioned in Mr. Hume's letter, exchanged to the 40th regiment more than three years ago, and is now serving at Bombay. 1 have, &c. (Signed) HILL. 108 Horse Guards, 29th July, 1835. Sir—By Lord Hill's command, I have the honour herewith to transmit to you a letter and inclosure, which his Lordship has just received from the Secretary-at-War, whereby it appears that, in evidence taken before a Committee of the House of Commons, it is stated that Orange Lodges have existed, or exist, in the regiments specified in the margin, * You will be pleased to take this occasion to communicate instantly with every regiment and dépôot under your command, and to ascertain for Lord Hill's information, how far the prohibitory orders issued against Orange Lodges have been infringed upon or disobeyed, and should you, in the course of these references and investigations, discover that these orders have in any instance been disobeyed by any Officer whatever, you will report him at once to the General Commander-in-Chief, in order to his being duly called to account for his conduct. As Lieutenant-Colonel Dixon is now with the 40th regiment in India, and as the 64th regiment is in Jamaica, you can only, for the present, refer to the dépôt of the last mentioned regiment for such particulars as its Commanding Officer may be able to furnish touching the Orange Lodge which is thus said to have existed in that regiment. I have only to add, that Lord Hill will be impatient to receive your reports, and those of the General Officers of districts, in consequence of these institutions. I have, &c., (Signed) JOHN MACDONALD, A. G. * 109
 Viscount Howick  in rising to oppose the Motion of the hon. Member for Fins-bury, said, he should be very happy to do what was consistent with his duty in affording relief in any case of real hardship. It was always a painful thing to see, that an officer who had distinguished himself in the service of his country should, in consequence of an indiscretion arising from some fault of temper, be degraded and expelled from the army. But it was so essential that the discipline of the army should be maintained—that on subjects of this kind there should not be the least possibility of receiving the decision of a Court-martial come to on proper grounds by the regular authorities—that he trusted the House would support him in resisting this inquiry, — an inquiry, from which he, for one, could anticipate no good effect whatever. The hon. Member had spoken a great deal about the legality of Colonel Arthur's Commission; that had been decided upon authority so much higher than his own, that he (Lord Howick) did not mean to enter on it. The Commission under which Colonel Arthur acted was produced in Court, and sworn to by two officers most distinguished in character and experience, both having filled the office of Adjutant-General, (Sir Herbert Taylor and Sir Henry Torrens,) and who gave it as their opinion that the Commission was sufficient to authorise Colonel Arthur in retaining the Command, it having been dated several years before this transaction. But more than that, Colonel Bradley was dissatisfied with the amount of damages he received on the trial which took place for false imprisonment—and which clearly proved that the Court did acknowledge the legality of the Commission because the damages were given not for Colonel Bradley's confinement before his removal from the army, but in consequence of his having been
 54 l. 55
 Viscount Howick  begged to observe, that the hon. Member was not correct as to one point. Major Arthur offered to show the Commission by virtue of which he took upon himself the chief command, to Colonel Bradley if the latter would wait upon him at the Government House.
 Mr. Wallace : I have two questions to put to the hon. Member—first, whether any questions were asked as to the Orange Lodges in Scotland, and who was their Grand Master?—and, second, whether it is true that there are officers in the army who are members of Orange Lodges?
 Mr. Wallace : I beg to know if there is any objection to publishing the names of the officers, that we may have them before Monday? Officers, non-commissioned officers, and privates will then be on the same footing.
 Mr. Wallace  was about to speak again, when he was informed by the Speaker that there was no Question before the House.
 Mr. E. Harbord Lushington Preston  was called to the Bar, and interrogated by the Speaker:—He said that he had been summoned before the Committee on Great Yarmouth, but that he had refused to answer any questions put to him, on the grounds that he had received a notice signed by the agents for the petitioners, stating that the examination into the case of Great Yarmouth "might affect him with imputations of bribery, or with aiding and assisting in the commission of bribery or treating, or with somewhat of the offences mentioned in the petition." Accusations had also been made against him (the witness) before the Committee, and he, therefore, humbly contended that, according to the laws of the land, with which he was somewhat acquainted, he could not be called upon to give evidence against himself.
 Mr. O'Connell : Then whether the question affects you or not, you refuse to answer?—I do.
 Mr. O'Connell : Do you mean to say that the case affects nobody else?—I mean to say that I refuse to answer, because the case affects myself. But if the question does not in any way affect yourself, do you refuse to answer?—Am I to be the judge whether it affects me or not? Nobody else can judge.—I should be sorry to impugn the authority of the House, but I think I cannot be called upon as a witness in a case where I am  de facto 113
 Mr. O'Connell  said, I think I am bound to move now, Sir, that this witness be committed, in custody, to Newgate.
 The Solicitor-General  very much regretted that they had not, on that occasion, the advantage of the presence of his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney-General, because the question before the House was one which involved a very important principle, and one, considering the degree of party excitement which necessarily existed under such circumstances, on which it was extremely important they should come to a final determination with perfect calmness and impartiality. Having said thus much, he must beg to state, candidly and fairly, that in his opinion, and according to his view of the law, the witness was
 114 a fortiori, 115
 Mr. O'Connell  had never heard anything in that House with half the astonishment with which he had listened to what had just fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman. He could not express the surprise with which he saw the hon. and learned Gentleman, a law-officer of the Crown, coming forward to state, as he had done, that a witness might be protected from giving evidence, without stating any one ground or principle of law for that protection. They all understood the ground—the legal ground—that a man was not bound to convict himself. That was law—perhaps, it was not common sense. It relaxed the administration of justice exceedingly. Why should not a
 116
 Dr. Nichol  said, that he had copied the Resolutions which had been referred to by the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Tancred)  verbatim et literatim
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  agreed with his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Kirkcudbright (Mr. C. Fergusson). The discovery of truth was the great principle of these proceedings, but if they admitted the argument of the hon. number who had just sat down, there would be an end to that principle. The vague apprehensions of the witness were not to be a bar to all inquiry. When the witness was really placed in a situation in which he might criminate himself, it was then for the House to interfere, and extend to him their protection. The preliminary objection which had been taken by the witness was quite unheard of. In Courts of Law no witness was allowed to refuse the answering of questions before he had been examined at all, or before it had been considered whether the questions put were such as were likely to criminate himself. When such important inquiries were instituted it was proper that they should be conducted with strict impartiality and efficiency, but that could not be the case if these objections were sustained. If a witness were allowed the
 120
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he would withdraw his Motion; and propose instead of it, "That the witness should be called to the Bar, and informed by the Speaker that he was bound to answer all questions put to him by the Committee, not tending to criminate himself.
 The Solicitor-General  said, that the question now lay within a very narrow compass. It would be recollected that a full House had decided, by a majority of three to one, that the question which Mr. Prentice objected to he was bound to answer. The House came to a resolution to that effect, and dealt comparatively leniently with him by directing that he should be committed to the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms, instead of sending him to Newgate. The House took this course  non constat, l. l.,
 Mr. O'Connell  most strongly protested against the slavish doctrine which the hon. and gallant Member had ventured to advance before a deliberative assembly of freemen. He had told a British House of Commons that the soldier had nothing to do with the orders of his commanding officer but to obey them. The soldier was bound to obey every order that was legal, but if the order were illegal, he obeyed it at his peril. Thank God, the command of a military officer was no justification of an illegal act. Let that be well understood. The contrary doctrine was fit for the despotic regions of St. Petersburgh, but it was utterly unfit for the meridian of London. The soldier and the officer were alike amenable to the law. The law was the master of both soldier and officer, and not their servant. Nobody respected the hon. and gallant officer (Sir J. Elley) more than he did for his gallant conduct, and for the rank he had attained by his merits; but nobody repudiated more strongly than he, the slavish doctrine which that gallant Officer had promulged. In the whole course of the debate, nothing had been said against the character of Captain Atcheson; but if he had had the honour of being consulted upon the subject, he certainly should have advised an inquiry into the legality of the order which was issued by the commanding officer, instead of a motion for the minutes of the evidence before the Court-Martial. He did not deny that Captain Atcheson had been guilty of disobedience; but he did most strenuously deny the legality of the order so disobeyed.
 The Earl of Darlington  opposed the
 135
 Lord Francis Egerton  said, it was now his duty to move that William Prentice be committed to his Majesty's gaol of Newgate.
 Lord Francis Egerton  was of opinion that they should have before them the notice that had been served on the witness before they proceeded further. He could not give a decided opinion on the subject until then. He did not think, if they adopted the course recommended by the noble Lord, that it would be sufficient to tell the witness that they would protect him against the serious charges which might be brought against him.
 Lord Francis Egerton  reported from the Great Yarmouth Committee, that three witnesses summoned, viz., William Green, Edward Latham, and E. H. L. Preston, had refused to appear, on the ground that, having received a certain notice, they considered themselves defendants in the case.
 Lord Francis Egerton  remarked that,
 112
 Lord John Russell  admitted that it would be a great hardship, not to say injustice, to send this witness to Newgate, if they entertained any doubt as to the propriety of the course they were called upon to pursue. He had at first, taken the same view of the question as the Solicitor-General, that the notice that had been served on the witness was a notice to prepare for trial; but, it appeared to him on reflection that this was not the case. The House, certainly, was not strictly bound to follow the technical rules of the Courts of Law; but still they should hesitate before they committed this person to Newgate. He agreed in the suggestion of the hon. and learned Member for Newark, that the witness who objected to be examined should be told that he would be protected in his answer to any question which was likely to be injurious to him; but until such question were asked he was not protected. After the long discussion that had taken place, he thought this was the best course to adopt. He did not see
 123
 Lord John Russell  said, there were two other witnesses whose cases were similar, and he did not see any objection to the House taking the same course with respect to them.
 Mr. Charles Barclay  thought that the parties very naturally declined to answer the questions of the Committee, because they did not know whether their evidence, combined with that of others, might not lead to their being convicted for bribery. He should certainly vote against the Motion for the committal of this gentleman to Newgate.
 Mr. Shaw  begged to ask what was the position in which the witness placed himself? If there was any allegation that this notice had been served upon the witness by a favourable party, in order that the witness might object to giving evidence, his position would be very different. The fact, however, was, that this notice was served upon him by agents of the opposite party. He, therefore, stood in the condition of an accused person, and, standing in that condition, his objection was in accordance with the principles of British law and British justice. He had no doubt upon the matter, and he could not but express his admiration of the fair and candid manner in which the Solicitor-General had given his opinion.
 Mr. Finch : I rise to correct a mistake; there is no proof of officers being in connexion with Lodges, whether on half or on full pay.
 Mr. Tancred  hoped that as a member of the Committee, the House would allow him to state as correctly as he could, the circumstances under which the notice in question originated. On the first day the Committee met, the hon. and learned Member for Cardiff moved a string of resolutions in compliance with one of which a degree of superabundant caution was observed, and a notice was ordered to be drawn up, and served upon every person who, in the widest possible range, the agent for the petitioners thought might be in any way whatever criminated. He believed the agent was required by the strict terms of the Resolution, to give notice to no fewer than three hundred persons. The object of the Committee was, that those individuals might attend in person (as the gentleman who had just left the Bar had done), or by their agents, to watch
 117
 Mr. Tancred : Was the question put to you this—"Are you a voter for the borough of Great Yarmouth?"—It was.
 The Speaker  addressing him said: "Edward Lushington Preston, I am commanded by this House to admonish you that you are bound to submit to be examined by the Committee without prejudice to your right to object to any question the answer to which may tend to criminate yourself.
 Mr. Freshfield  said, that the doctrine laid down by the Solicitor-General had been always held to be law, and read from "Starkie on Evidence" the following extract:—"The witness might refuse to answer at all, on the ground that his answers might subject him to an indictment; but if he answered any questions then he was bound to disclose the whole truth.
 Mr. Praed : You conceive that every question must affect you. Do you conceive, as a defendant, that the whole case affects you?—Most decidedly.
 Mr. Hardy  would ask whether the House was prepared to differ from those
 119
 Mr. Hardy  said, he should move, as an Amendment, that William Prentice be brought to the Bar, with a view to his being admonished and discharged.
 Mr. Hardy  defended the conduct of Captain Atcheson, and contended that he had been guilty of no disobedience of orders, but had merely remonstrated in the most respectful manner against being compelled to do an act which violated his religious and conscientious feelings.
 Mr. Plumptre  rose to bring forward a case of what he deemed great individual hardship—a case of somewhat similar hardship from military laws he was aware had lately been before the House; but, in the present instance, there was one distinguishing feature;—it involved considerations of one of the nearest and dearest personal rights a man possessed, viz:—the right of conscience. It might be objected, that a very considerable lapse of time had taken place since the event had occurred; but although it occurred eleven years ago, it had never yet slept, and never would be suffered to fall asleep. Steps had been taken in different ways for obtaining that settlement to which it was entitled. He himself had brought the case before the House on the presentation of a petition, but the House would remember that it had never yet been brought to a vote; and he trusted that would be considered as a sufficient apology for bringing it forward again. He was also aware, it was objected that it was improper to bring cases
 128 "Malta, August 9,1822. "Sir; I have to acknowledge the receipt of
 129 "I have the honour to be, &c." Addressed to Major Adams. 130 131 prima facie 132
 Mr. Wilson Patten : I do not know whether the Duke of Cumberland, under the words Imperial Grand Master, is to be considered Grand Master of the Orange Lodges of the empire; but I cannot call to mind that any particular evidence was taken regarding Orange Lodges in Scotland. As to the question whether any officers are members, I think there appear among the officers of the institution gentlemen who are in the army. The Grand Treasurer is, I believe, an officer in the army. I do not know whether he holds a commission now, but he was in the army.
 Mr. Wilson Patten  brought up the third Report of the Select Committee on Orange Lodges, and in moving that it be printed said, that the Committee had, in obedience to the wish expressed by the House, when the Motion of the hon. Member for Middlesex was adjourned to enable the Committee to receive further evidence upon particular facts, called two or three witnesses before them, amongst whom was the Adjutant-General of the Forces, who had been examined that day. He (Mr. Patten) had also to state, that he had received a letter on the subject from his Royal Highness the Duke of Cumberland. That letter the Committee had added to their Report, in order that it might be printed and in the hands of hon. Members, as early as Monday morning, which would be much sooner than the whole of the evidence could be printed.
 Mr. Wilson Patten : They were thought to be distinct subjects. The existence of Orange Lodges in Ireland was the subject referred to the Committee.
 Mr. Wilson Patten  said, that the case on both sides was now considered to be closed, and that the Committee did not
 111
 Mr. Hume : Perhaps the hon. Member can inform me whether the inquiry has been limited to Ireland, or whether it has included the Orange Lodges in England?
 Mr. Hume  inquired whether it was the intention of the Committee to continue their inquiries, or whether this was a final Report.
 Mr. Hume : Have you any objection to answer questions as to matters in which you are not personally interested?—I contend that I cannot be called upon to answer any questions, inasmuch as I am not a witness, but a defendant.
 Mr. Hume : There might be, in Courts of Law, technicalities with which he was unacquainted; but the rule laid down by the hon. and learned Gentleman seemed to him calculated to produce but one result—namely, to render all inquiries by that House utterly fruitless. It would only be necessary for an agent to give notice to every person who might be examined as a witness in a bribery-case that his reply might criminate himself, to render the inquiry wholly useless, and to set the power of the House at defiance.
 Mr. Hume  did not know what the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite meant by
 126
 Mr. Pease , in extending the Resolutions to which the hon. and learned Gentleman had referred, had no intention of placing any party in the situation of defendant, but as the question at issue was one which peculiarly affected the liberty of the country and privileges of the House, he was peculiarly anxious that the Report of the Committee should be founded upon evidence taken with the utmost vigilance and caution.
 Mr. Philip Howard  was anxious to vindicate himself from any charge of intolerance which might seem to attach itself to the vote he was about to give. He thought that Captain Atcheson ought to have obeyed orders and tired the salute; in so doing he could not have been chargeable with an act of religious conformity any more than a Catholic High Sheriff who, in the discharge of an official duty, attends the Judge (for whose personal safety he is liable) to a Protestant place of worship. He would, however, adduce a case from a source from which the hon. Gentleman who introduced the motion could not appeal—from Holy Writ—from the 5th chapter of the 2nd Book of Kings. Naaman, the Captain of the Syrian hosts, and a convert to the faith of the Hebrews, propounds the following question to the prophet Elisha. He (Mr. Howard) cited the passage from the version of the Church of England. "In this thing the Lord pardon thy servant, that when my master goeth into the house of Rimmon to worship there, and he leaneth on my hand, I bow myself in the house of Rimmon: when I how down myself in the house of Rimmon, the Lord pardon thy servant in this thing. And he (the prophet) said unto him. Go in peace." No case could more clearly show that the performance of a civil duty could not be construed to involve an art of religious conformity. At the same time, however, that he expressed his conviction that Captain Atcheson had been as faulty in his conduct as he was mistaken in his views, no one would more rejoice to hear that the Royal clemency had been extended to an otherwise deserving Officer. No one would learn with feelings of greater satisfaction that, like Sir Thomas Wilson and Lord Cochrane, he had by a gracious Sovereign been restored to his rank in the British army. The authority of the law had been already sufficiently vindicated. Military discipline having been asserted, the clemency of the Crown might, without danger to the service, be extended to this Officer who had gallantly served his king and country.
 Mr. Wason  observed, that if a witness was to be allowed to refuse to answer a question because he supposed that it would be detrimental to him, a stop was put to all inquiry before Committees of this House. In his opinion the House was bound, in vindication of its own dignity, either to compel an answer or commit the witness.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, he would oppose the motion. It was impossible the House could accede without opening the way to numerous evils, which it would find difficult to resist. Once admit this complaint, and every officer and soldier would constitute himself the judge of the propriety of obeying or disobeying orders; and then military discipline was gone, to the ruin of the service, and to the injury of the national interests. The charge was disobedience of orders. It was alleged on the other side, that Captain Atcheson did not disobey orders; but surely the non-execution of orders given him by the Governor himself could not but be looked on as disobedience; and, of course, punishable so long as military discipline was to be maintained in the British army. Malta was delivered up to England on the express condition that the religion and religious rites of the population should be respected and upheld. These conditions were scrupulously observed before Captain Atcheson's time, every respect was paid to the religious ceremonies of the people. Captain Atcheson had directions to respect these ceremonies, and he did not. If he (Mr. C. Fergusson) were in command, he would enforce obedience to the orders. The Court-Martial which sat on Captain Atcheson, and was the best judge of what constituted disobedience of orders, pronounced him guilty. If every one was thus allowed to make himself the judge of the propriety of military orders, the service could not stand. One man would have a scruple of conscience about firing a shot, another would have a scruple about marching on Sunday. It would be impossible, in his opinion, to allow the minutes of evidence (which, however, were so short that every one might put himself in possession of them in a quarter of an hour) to be laid on the Table of that House,
 134
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  was compelled to dissent, though with the utmost diffidence, from the opinion which had been given by his hon. and learned Friend, the Solicitor-General. For that opinion he accounted by the circumstance that the hon. and learned Gentleman was more accustomed to Courts of Equity than Courts of Law. No witness in a court of law was ever protected from being examined at all. The witness did not object to a particular question, but refused to be examined at all, on the ground that he might criminate himself. But it was said that this witness stood in the position of a defendant. If so, if persons could be made defendants by the notice which had been given, the Committee of that House would be unable to go on with their proceedings, and their doors might as well be closed at once. This was the notice:—"Take notice, that the evidence which you intend to give before the Select Committee to whom the petition from Great Yarmouth is referred, may affect you with the imputation of bribery, or of being a party aiding and a sisting in the commission of bribery, or of one of the offences mentioned in the Act of Parliament relating to elections." This notice was, he contended, to be considered as a Proclamation and certainly not as an indictment. The question, "Are you a voter?" could not possibly subject the witness to any imputation of bribery; but the witness objected to it on the general principle that he had no right to answer at all. This principle could not, however, be maintained. Many questions which would not subject the witness to any charge, might be put to him. Whether the witness was bound to answer those questions, supposing the witness objected to them on the ground of tending to criminate himself, was for the House and not for the witness to decide.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson : Did you refuse to answer that question?—I did not refuse to answer it on the ground of crimination, but on the ground that I could not be called as a witness in a case where I had been accused. On these grounds I beg to state to the Committee that I considered myself justified in refusing to answer the question.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson : Was any question at all put to you by that Committee?—Yes, there was. What was it?
 Sir John Beckett said , that the question involved the consideration of the point whether a subordinate officer should or should not obey the orders of his commanding officer. The question was, whether the refusal of Captain Atcheson to obey the orders which he had received, was defensible on (he grounds stated by himself, or whether that which was requir-
 133
 Sir John Elley , as a military man, felt serious apprehension that the present attempt to set aside the solemn decision of a Court-Martial was likely, if successful, to sap the foundation of all discipline in the British army. He conceived it to be the duty of every British officer and soldier, when stationed in a foreign country, to respect the religious ceremonies of the country in which he might happen to be; whatever might be his own private religious opinions. Did the House wish the army to become a deliberative body? If they did, where was their boasted discipline? The duty of the British soldier was to obey the order of his commanding officer, and not to argue the propriety of his commands.
 Sir Robert Inglis  entirely concurred in the opinion expressed by the hon. and learned Solicitor-General. He begged to ask his Majesty's Ministers whether they were or were not prepared, to take the opinion of their legal advisers in preference to any other legal authority in that House. He would ask his noble Friend whether he placed his confidence in the legal advisers of the Crown or in the opinions of any other individuals.
 Sir Robert Peel  considered the question to be of such importance that he hoped the House would not come to a precipitate decision. It would be better that hon. Members and particularly hon. and learned Gentlemen should have an opportunity of considering the point, and referring to authorities. He himself wished for such an opportunity. As to the question whether, on the technical principles of the law, the witness could be justified in refusing to answer, the hon. and learned Solicitor-General had given his opinion that the objection of the witness was valid. Now, taking the personal opinions of the hon. and learned Gentleman apart from party,
 122
 Mr. Sergeant Wilde  did not think that this individual could be fairly committed to Newgate. His alleged offence was, that he had refused to answer the questions which did not so much criminate himself as others. But he contended that if the question put to him had even a tendency (and he must himself be the best judge of that) to inculpate himself, he was not bound to answer it. It was not necessary that the question should directly criminate him; it was sufficient to constitute a ground of refusal if he considered that it afforded facilities for discovering his offence. His refusing under such circumstances to answer could not be considered a contempt of the House, for he had a legal excuse for the act.
 Mr. Sergeant Wilde  said, his opinion was that the witness had been premature in his objection. The Committee were engaged not in considering an individual case, but several, and therefore the witness might give, respecting other parties, much important evidence, which would not criminate himself. As to the case mentioned by the hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. Hardy), it should be recollected that in Courts of Law it was generally well known to the Counsel whether the witness would be asked questions tending to criminate himself, and the objection by the
 121
 Sir George Clerk  said, that it was many years ago since he first became acquainted with the case of Lieutenant Parrott. He had been convicted of extorting 10 l. 143
 Mr. Randall Plunkett  had scrupulously abstained from offering his sentiments to the House upon the whole measure until the last moment, when he could do so without being guilty of what might be called obtrusiveness, in so young a member of the Legislature. Upon this measure, which must ever be essentially the most exciting subject upon which any inhabitant of the beautiful yet unhappy land he loved and lived in could possibly descant, unless, indeed, he is not susceptible of the ordinary sensibilities of human nature, and of strong sentiments, as far as he is himself concerned, and of sympathy for the poorer classes of his own creed. He felt that in offering the very few observations which he deemed it his duty, as a resident Irish gentleman, to offer to a thin house, and at so late a period of the Session, he was justified in taking the opportunity of the Appropriation Clause coming under the consideration of the House, because he deemed that that Clause, in its provisions and its objects, was an epitome of the whole Bill; for what did the Bill provide? Regulation
 165 166 167
 Mr. O'Connell  expressed his approval of the proposition of the hon. Member for Roscommon. Surely there was no injustice in substituting a rent-charge of 3½ per cent. for the payment of the money, if it were inconvenient to pay it—to be, however, returned in the same way as the quit-rent, giving, in fact, the tenants aright to redeem under the provision of the hon. Member's proposition. The adoption of the proposition would tend to facilitate the augmentation of the Perpetuity Purchase Fund.
 Mr. Bingham Baring  rose to move certain Clauses which he should beg to bring up at this stage of the Bill. In doing so, he stated that he opposed the Bill, not because he was enamoured of existing abuses or of sinecures—none of which he wished to continue; but because the Government would not allow them to reform the Irish Church without paying a dear price for it: and not only so,
 171 l. 172 173 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought that the principle involved in the Clauses was most valuable, and hoped the House would not be induced lightly or negligently to suffer it to pass by. He for one was ready to adopt the Clauses at once. No one felt more strongly than he did, that it was the duty of Parliament to make the surplus fund conducive to the purposes of Protestant education; and he thought that the hon. Gentleman was entitled to the gratitude of the Protestants of Ireland for having brought forward his proposition.
 Lord Dudley Stuart  thought that it
 155
 Lord Granville Somerset  denied the advantage which was supposed to arise from reducing the present Militia Staff so low as to make it wholly inefficient. By the proposed reduction of the drummers, that useful body, not so soon trained, would be wholly unavailing should any emergency arise. He had not heard the Bill defended either on principle, on grounds of economy, or of expediency. He should be glad to know what would be the amount of saving after the Bill for regulating the pensions of the reduced staff had passed. He thought, rather than this measure, it would be better to abolish the Militia Staff altogether.
 Lord John Russell  defended the Bill, and denied that it was contemplated by he Government to inflict any injustice upon the Militia Staff of the country. The Bill merely went on the principle of that brought in for the reduction of the militia corporals by Sir Henry Hardinge, by a reduction now of the non-efficient serjeants, and would be followed, before the Session ended, by another measure to provide for the pensions of those reduced from the present staff. The Government could therefore not be charged either with cruelty or inhumanity.
 Lord John Russell  thought, that the right hon. Baronet had not exactly understood his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer when he said that, with the exception of the 860 parishes, the revenue would be appropriated exclusively to the purposes of the Protestant Church. All that his right hon. Friend admitted was, that the endowments of the Church might be better distributed than they were at present. That was the principle which he (Lord John Russell) understood to be involved in the Clauses brought forward by the hon. Member for Winchester; and he thought it to be an extremely proper one. In the general proposition contained in the Clauses, therefore, he was fully disposed to assent; but in some respects, he thought they would require a more mature consideration. He was glad that the suggestion had been made, but thought it
 176
 Lord John Russell : Perhaps I may be allowed to say with reference to the observation of the hon. Member for Bath, that it is my own opinion—my most decided opinion—whatever Gentlemen may hear or see in the public prints of what passes in another place, that the best way to preserve the dignity of this House of Parliament, and parliamentary proceedings, is not to take any notice of anything that may be said, offensive or derogatory. Of course we cannot know what takes place elsewhere; but as far as this House is concerned, I hope we shall take care not to expose ourselves to any censure.
 Lord John Russell : Sir, I now rise to make the Motion of which I have given notice; viz. "That it be an instruction to the Committee appointed to inquire into the conduct of General Darling, that they do not extend their inquiries into the proceedings and finding of the Court-martial who sat on Captain Robison" which I shall do
 147 148 149 150 151
 Lord John Russell  moved, in pursuance of notice, "That for the rest of the Session Orders of the Day should precede Notices." Last Session this Resolution had been adopted on the 9th of July; and at this time of the year it seemed necessary, as a number of public measures were upon the books, which ought not to be discussed and considered in so thin an attendance as was likely to take place after the notices of the night had been disposed of.
 Lord John Russell : As to the call of the House under such extraordinary circumstances, I apprehend that should they occur, the Resolution I wish the House now to adopt, could be set aside for the purpose.
 Colonel Perceval  felt bound, as a militia officer, also to protest against the measure, even on the grounds of expediency, still more so on those of injustice. The militia staff had done essential service to the British nation during the war, and had been forbidden from volunteering into the active service, by which they might have attained promotion, and they had remained satisfied under the promise that their appointments were permanent. Now, with two months' notice (for it was now the 8th of August, and the Bill was to take effect on the 10th of October), the very men who had thus sacrificed their chances of promotion and served well their country were to be sent to the right about, at an age when it was impossible for them to turn themselves to any new employment, by which to earn their means of subsistence. The measure was fraught with cruelty and injustice.
 Colonel Sibthorp  rose to oppose the Motion. He did so because the Bill had been introduced at a late hour, and at a late period of the Session; it was founded on no justice, no necessity, no economy, no advantage to the public. It had been politically surreptitiously brought in. It was a Bill, a project, a measure which was unconstitutional, uncalled for, unrequired, and unnecessary. The noble Lord might say, it was founded on a point of economy. The noble Lord might be a very entertaining man—an uncommonly entertaining man in private circles; he might be a very clever man at the Home Department; but he (Colonel Sibthorp) would tell that noble Lord that neither he nor his noble Friend the late Secretary at War, in the event of their entering the Militia, would ever get much further than the awkward squad. The Militia was a constitutional body; it had infused a feeling of security and satisfaction into the hearts of our citizens at home—it had struck terror to the hearts of our hardiest foes abroad; and yet the noble Lord proposed to alter the constitution of this constitutional body, and to reduce its numbers in the proportion of one-third of two thirds. The noble Lord, having no ear for music, proposed, in the first instance, by one sweeping, and he would say, revolutionary measure to do away with all the drum-majors. Now, were the people of this country to be told in the nineteenth century, that drum-majors were to be treated in this way? Was it to be borne, or could it be supposed that drum-majors would respect the institutions of their country, if the laws afforded drum-majors no protection. The noble Lord was not aware probably—never having been a drum-major himself—that the office was one of the most difficult to fill up at a moment's warning, and that the course of training for a drum-majorship, was both difficult and expensive. The introduction of this measure was neither more nor less than a consequence of that democratic spirit which was floating about,
 177
 Mr. Callaghan  moved that Mr. Dean being privileged by his attendance upon the House, be now discharged out of the custody of the Sheriff.
 Mr. Harvey : If the payment of a million were to secure permanent peace to Ireland, so far from objecting to that sum, there was no advance that he would not be willing to make in order to secure that object. But as he was persuaded that the new arrangement as proposed by this Bill, would not, and ought not to reconcile the payment of Tithes to the Irish people, he was unwilling that the whole of the million should be allowed to go into the pockets of the Irish landlords. By the Act commonly called Stanley's Act, the landlord was primarily liable for the Tithes of his tenants, notwithstanding any engagement to the contrary; and the repayment of that portion of the million which had been advanced ought to be secured to the revenue of the country. He would much rather give the money in the way of charity
 161 162 l. l.
 Mr. David Roche  thought the hon. Attorney-General was mistaken in the view he took of the proposition submitted
 170
 Mr. Maclean  said, that during the discussion sufficient credit had not been given to the character of General Darling. An hon. Member opposite said that a terrific case had been made out against General Darling; he therefore thought that officer should be allowed every testimony and every means of defending his
 156
 Mr. Maclean , in explanation, said, that the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had not fully understood him. What he (Mr. Maclean) said was that he knew General Darling to be exceedingly anxious for inquiry into his conduct; but at the same time he (Mr. Maclean) said that after what had fallen from hon. Members opposite, and after the repeated decisions on the subject, the granting of the inquiry would be an unconstitutional proceeding.
 Mr. Fitzstephen French  said, that the difference between the Clause about to be proposed by him, and the 89th Clause of this Bill, for which he wished to have it substituted, was merely striking out the definite period of ten years, in which the tenants are obliged to pay off the mortgage, and allowing them to discharge it at their own convenience. The object in offering a loan on a reduced rate of interest was, to induce the tenants to come forward generally to purchase, which, at the rates now demanded by the Commissioners, was considerably more than could well be expected. It would scarcely be believed that the increase on the yearly fine of the tenant, arising from interest on the purchase money at five per cent., amounted in all the dioceses, except Armagh, to about fifty-five per cent. That was supposing the tenant to have paid for his property a yearly fine of 1,000 l. l. 168 l. l. l. 
 
 Fine and Interest of Purchase Money together. 
 Yearly Fine. 5 per cent. 3½ per cent. 3 per cent. 
 In all dioceses but Armagh 1000 1550 1365 1330 
 In Armagh 1000 2500 2050 1900 l., l. l., 169
 Mr. Shaw  thought a higher bonus should be allowed to those who had obeyed the law, than those who violated it.
 Mr. Shaw  had several Amendments to move, but having discussed the principle of them before, and knowing that the Government would resist them, he would not trouble the House to divide upon any of them at the present stage of the measure. He was, however, anxious to record his own opinion against that portion of the Bill which was in violation of all sound principle, and as regarded the other part
 159
 Mr. Shaw  objected to the inquiry upon principle. No doubt that House might, in extreme cases, revise the proceedings of a Court-Martial, confining itself to the matter which had been before the Court-Martial; but to re-hear the case, and open it to new evidence, was without precedent, and would lead to infinite inconvenience. So far as the feelings of General Darling were concerned, he would be ill-treated, now that the inquiry was granted, if it were not allowed to be complete. He thought the Government would act a much more manly part if they moved to rescind the whole resolution, as they had first opposed it. It was hard upon an old and distinguished officer, who had administered the difficult government of a convict settlement, having retired many years, to be now dragged before the public under accusations which had been already the subject of frequent trials and inquiries, that had all terminated in his exculpation. As regarded the letter of Captain Sturt, it might have been improper in Captain Sturt to write it to Lieutenant Sweeny, but it was clearly more unjustifiable of Captain Robison to read it, and for neither was General Darling responsible, for it was proved that the letter was written wholly without his knowledge. He was surprised at the special pleading of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. O'Connell) on the deposition of General Darling's, which had just been read to the House. Surely no Gentleman in the House could hesitate to believe it as implicitly as if it had been sworn in a court of justice. He was quite a stranger to General Darling—had never seen him but once, and knowing many friends and con-
 158
 Mr. Shaw  thought, that if the terms of sale were too high, they ought to be altered; while he confessed that the present Amendment was a complicated mode of effecting that object, and it was difficult to imagine how principal, but at three and a-half per cent., was ever likely to be repaid. He felt, however, that some further inducement to purchase on the part of the tenant was wanting, and that it would be beneficial to the Perpetuity Purchase Fund itself.
 Mr. Shaw  thought, that the effect of the Clauses would be to vest too great a power in an irresponsible body; at all events, the proposition required more consideration than it would then be possible for the House to extend to it; on that account he trusted the Government would not consent to entertain it.
 Mr. Robinson  did not see how it would improve the settlement of the Tithe question by the intended arrangement, if a certain additional sum such as that proposed were to be levied every year. He was very much afraid, if this sum were wholly remitted, that it would only hold out an encouragement to the violation of the law under the proposed rent-charge.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that the hon. Member had not, in the statement he had made to the House, added one single new fact to those which he had stated when he brought the same case before the House in the last Session, or anything that could shake in the slightest degree what was said on that occasion by the right hon. Baronet who was then at the head of the Admiralty. He was not disposed to go into all the particulars of the case, as he did not think that the presentation of a petition was the most fitting occasion to discuss such a subject. He would, however, say that there was not the least ground for the charge of prejudice which the petitioner had made against certain Gentlemen, by name connected with the Admiralty, or of his case having at all suffered through their means, and it was perfectly unwarrantable to make such an assertion. With respect to the offer which the hon. Member represented to have been made by the late First Lord of the Admiralty, of 700 l. l. 142
 Mr. Horace Twiss  trusted that the House, by sanctioning the motion on this subject on a former evening, would not establish a dangerous precedent. He was not acquainted with General Darling until after the debate he had alluded to. In consequence of the part he (Mr. Twiss)
 154
 The Speaker  addressing him said, that it was the opinion of the House that Mr. Alexander Dean was entitled to his privilege, and that he must therefore be discharged.
 The Speaker : I am sure the hon. Member will feel in a moment the unfitness of such an observation.
 Mr. James Grattan  was of opinion that the Clause would be altogether impracticable. The landlords would find it quite difficult enough to collect the seventy per cent. without imposing on them any additional charge.
 Mr. Roebuck : Certainly, after what you, Mr. Speaker, have said, I feel that it would have been better not to have made the observation; but I should not have discovered its impropriety—I hope I may be permitted to finish my sentence—I should not have discovered its impropriety seeing what has been allowed to be said in another place regarding this House.
 Mr. Roebuck : I suggest that at this late period it would be as well for the House to adjourn for a month or six weeks, while the farce in another place is going on.
 Mr. Brotherton  protested against a Bill of this importance being discussed at the late hour which had now arrived (half past one o'clock.) He did not wish to stand in the way of the Government by now moving the Adjournment, but he must express a hope, that after this Bill
 178
 Mr. Hume  said, it was most gratifying to him to find a proposition, which he had brought forward fifteen years ago, and for which he was nearly torn in pieces, suggested by an hon. Gentleman belonging to that political party to which the hon. Member for Winchester was attached? The hon. Gentleman was perfectly correct when he said, that the present measure would not be a final one unless it contained some such provision as that which he proposed. Nothing could be more consistent with justice, or with the interests of the Protestants in Ireland, than that the funds should be applied in the manner that the hon. Gentleman suggested.
 Mr. Hume : I quite agree with the noble Lord that it is desirable that some arrangement of the kind should be made; but I wish to ask what prospect the noble Lord can afford us of the termination of the Session. Suppose, as is alleged, that the Bill now before the other House should be rejected, it would be my business to submit to this House the propriety of a call of the House, in order to determine what measure should be adopted in such an event. It is certainly expedient to get the Bills through, and that the attendance should not be thinner than can be avoided,
 146
 Mr. Hume  said, that he it was who brought forward the case of the petitioner in 1825, and he was free to admit that Lieutenant Parrott had been removed from the service in consequence of the verdict had against him at Maidstone, on a charge of extortion. But soon after the conviction one of the prosecuting parties died, and the other admitted that the charge had been fabricated, and, upon this, the Judges quashed the whole proceedings. After this, he contended that Lieutenant Parrott ought to have been restored to his rank in the service. It was on that occasion that the Government offered him the pension he now enjoys of 2 s. d.
 Mr. Hume  proposed that a Clause should be inserted, with a view to the repayment of the million proposed by the Bill to be remitted to the Irish landlords. The sanctioning such a principle as that upon which those who had offered effectual resistance to the law, were relieved from all the consequences, was extremely likely to lead to consequences under the new arrangement which the framers of this measure did not at all anticipate. He would move a clause to the effect "that in every case where the arrears of any Tithe composition, or any assignment for the years 1831, 1832, 1833, and 1834, shall remain due at the passing of this Act, out of lands chargeable with a sum equal to the rent-charge of 7–10ths provided by this Bill there shall be payable an additional charge of 2½ per cent., to be recoverable out of and levied on the land in the same way as the former rent-charge, and subject to all the regulations and
 160
 Mr. Sergeant Perrin  thought that the principle of the Amendment was highly objectionable, and he was decidedly opposed to its adoption, He should, for the purpose of exemplification, put a case. Suppose any hon. Member of that House wanted to sell an estate—a fair rent is given for it—the parties agree upon the price. But what would that hon. Member think if, instead of the money, it were proposed to give him in payment a rent charge of 3½ per cent. Yet this was precisely what was proposed to be done by his hon. Friend, the Member for Roscommon. The proposition of the hon. Member was, to give a rent-charge of 3½ per cent, instead of paying down the money, and to this proposition he (Mr. Perrin) was decidedly opposed.
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  moved the appointment of the Committee on the conduct of General Darling, and read the names of the Members whom he wished to serve upon it.
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  confessed that he was in an embarrassing situation, in consequence of the course adopted by the noble Lord that evening—a course which would preclude him from going into a mass of evidence most essential to the justification of a much-injured man, if it were adopted by the House. He thought that the Committee, if permitted to enter into that branch of evidence, would find that a case of a most terrific nature would be made out against General Darling, for his treatment of the two soldiers Sudds and Thompson. The noble Lord had asserted that this House ought not to be made a Court of Appeal from the decisions of Courts-Martial. Now, on the contrary, he would assert that, in the legitimate exercise of its functions, the House of Commons was a Court of Appeal from the decisions of such courts; and in making that assertion he was confirmed by the opinions which both the late and the present Speaker had delivered in that House in the year 1813. He had likewise consulted the Journals upon the subject, and he found that in the year 1744 the minutes of a dozen Courts-Martial had been laid on the Table; and that on revising them, the House had come to a decision, that in the case of Captain Norris the proceedings were unjust, arbitrary, cruel, and illegal. He had endeavoured
 152 153
 Mr. O'Connell  said, it was difficult to know whether the hon. Member who last spoke would vote for the Motion or the Amendment. The question now was, whether the proceedings of the Court-Martial should be put out of the inquiry, or whether it should be limited, and only go to a certain extent, exclusive of the sentence. It appeared that the hon. Member for Bridport (Mr. Twiss) was of opinion, that the original Motion would shutout General Darling from an opportunity of vindicating himself; he therefore thought that they were entitled to the hon. and learned Member's vote for the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Tralee. The blank affidavit that the hon. and learned Member for Bridport spoke of ought to have been made before the Court of King's-bench. He thought that the letter from Captain Sturt to Lieutenant Sweeney, was one of the worst features of General Darling's conduct. He hoped that the inquiry would not be limited, and that an opportunity would be given both to General Darling and Captain Sturt to vindicate their conduct before the Committee. He put it to the noble Lord whether he ought not to allow the Amendment of the hon. Member for Tralee to be carried, especially when it was seen that the friends of General Dar-
 157
 Mr. Phillip Howard  could not think it consistent on the part of that House, to agree to a Resolution one day, and the next to rescind it. On this ground he should vote against Ministers on the present occasion.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, it was perfectly ludicrous to exclude the finding and sentence of the Court-Martial, and to extend the inquiry to their proceedings, for they were the most material part of them. He felt bound to oppose the motion of his hon. and learned Friend, which was perfectly and wholly unprecedented, and he was prepared to show that the Court-Martial had committed no injustice in any one of the cases to which he had adverted. The reason why certain portions of the minutes of the Court-Martial were not produced was, that Captain Robison had put questions concerning parties not in Court. The questions had no relevance to the subject matter of inquiry, but referred entirely to third parties. The right hon. Gentleman then went through the proceedings of the Court-Martial, and defended Captain Sturt and Sweeny from the charges brought against them by Captain Robison. The subject had come before the Court of King's Bench, and it had declared there was no ground to impugn the verdict; he, therefore, contended that an inquiry should not be granted.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  presented a petition from Lieutenant Parrott, of the royal navy, complaining of great cruelly and oppression practised towards him by the Board of Admiralty. He had taken pains for the last two years to make himself fully acquainted with the case of the petitioner,
 140 l., Adam l. 141
 Mr. Tooke  then rose and said, that he had an amendment to propose in the Appropriation Clause, the object of which was, in his opinion, so just and liberal, that he could not anticipate any objection to it. He proposed the introduction of the following words in the Clause to which he had referred—"That out of the reserved fund the Ecclesiastical Commissioners should allow an annual stipend, not exceeding the sum of 40 l.
 Admiral Adam  said, that what he had stated on the former discussion of this case in the last Session was, that he hoped the Admiralty would not disgrace itself by entertaining a case like this, and he hoped so still. The Board of Admiralty had the right to strike out of the list of the navy any Officer who disgraced himself, which he considered the petitioner had done.
 Sir Edward Codrington  protested against the power of the Board of Admiralty to scratch any man's name out of the Navy List without some inquiry, by Court-martial or otherwise, into his conduct. No other class of his Majesty's subjects were liable to such arbitrary treatment. He knew nothing of the present case, but he knew several cases of great hardship, and had a number of petitions to present on the subject from suffering individuals, which he should bring forward when he moved for the papers of which he had given notice. In one instance a man had been dismissed the service for an offence alleged to be committed by him eleven years before, without the slightest investigation, and he had been that very day told of an old officer, seventy years of age, now on his death-bed, and in a state of starvation, who declared that to this hour he did not know what he was dismissed for.
 Sir Thomas Troubridge  said, he did not
 144
 The Attorney-General  said, that Mr. Dean was clearly privileged, and as it also appeared that the officer had acted with perfect  bona fides
 Sir John Hobhouse  objected to opening the proceedings before the Court-Martial on Captain Robison, because it would tend to make the House a Court of Appeal from the decision of judicial tribunals. There might arise cases of an extraordinary nature, in which inquiry might be necessary; but this certainly was not such a case. He was satisfied that his hon. and learned Friend had not made out a case to justify the interference of the House in the proceedings of the Court-Martial.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down commenced his speech by declaring that it was extremely painful to him to enter upon a second discussion of this subject, having so very recently addressed the House upon the same question. Notwithstanding this announcement the hon. Gentleman had entered at considerable length upon the subject, and at a considerable sacrifice of his private feelings, and, labouring under great personal suffering and pain, had addressed the House for nearly half an hour. Whether this suffering were real, or whether the hon. Member's description of it might be taken as a specimen of that "rhetorical candour" he had spoken of in the latter part of his speech, he certainly might be allowed to have his doubts. With respect to the topics alluded to by the hon. Member, he (Sir R. Peel) had certainly intended to have proposed, what the noble Lord opposite had since inti-
 163 l. bonus; 164
 Sir Robert Peel  thought, that the valuable part of the discussion was the admission of the right hon. Gentleman the Chan-
 175 l. l.
 Viscount Howick : Sir, the noble Lord has said, that this Bill is exceedingly inconsistent:—that we should have done one of two things either got rid of it altogether, or not to have reduced it at all: that if we proposed the present reduction on the ground that the Staff is inefficient, it is the grossest possible absurdity to render the Staff still more inefficient by diminishing it to such an extent that it will be utterly impossible to keep it up at all. Now, Sir, if this measure was intended to be final I admit there would be some force in the argument of the noble Lord. But I think it is impossible for any man to look at the Returns upon the Table from the Inspecting Officers, and not see it is the most absurd waste of money that ever was made by any country, to carry on the existing system at all. The expense for what is called the actual service (exclusive of the "dead weight") of the Militia, is no less than 96,000 l. 179 l. l. 180
 Viscount Morpeth  observed, that the effects of the Clause which was proposed by the hon. Member for Middlesex had been discussed fully on the night when the hon. Member for Southwark brought forward his Motion. He did not, therefore, think it necessary to enter on any further discussion with respect to this Clause.
 Lord Morpeth : I am glad to be able to say that my objections to the Clauses of the hon. Member, if any, will be those of detail merely; the principle which they involve being one to which I not only assent, but which (so far, at least, as I recollect it in those Clauses), I am determined to assert. I rejoice, too, at any proposition, coming from the quarter to which the hon. Member now belongs (the Opposition Benches) which seems to rest on true liberality, and I am inclined to believe, that my noble and right hon. Friends would have been almost inclined to follow the principle of any hon. Friend opposite in the introduction of some such Clauses, had it not been from the apprehension that the extent of change, and coldness and indifference to existing "landmarks" which those Clauses introduce, might have provoked a still further opposition, and tempted a still more obstinate resistance than, hitherto, it has been our good fortune to meet. As I heard the Clauses, they do not interfere
 174
 Viscount Morpeth  was apprehensive, if he acceded to the proposition of his hon. Friend (Mr. French), that he would be justly amenable to a charge made against himon a former night, of burdening the Perpetuity Fund with more than it was able to bear. The funds placed at the disposal of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners were very low at present, and the proposition of his hon. Friend, if agreed to, would tend still farther to curtail them.
 Viscount Morpeth  moved the Order of the Day for the bringing up of the Report of the Irish Church Bill.
 The Marquess of Chandos  had a Petition to present from certain Freeholders of Marylebone, complaining of improper interference on the part of the Select Vestry in the registration for the county of Middlesex. The petitioners complained, that forty-two names had been surreptitiously inserted in the list of voters in that borough for the county of Middlesex; they stated that those forty-two names appeared in the printed lists affixed to the church-door, and though they had never been inserted in the list made out by the overseer, the Marylebone beadle afterwards paid 42 s. 197
 Mr. O'Connell  would not shut out any petition, unless a substantial objection was raised to it. The petitioners complained that forty-two names had been illegally placed on the register. That was for the Revising Barrister in the first instance, and not for that House to decide. An appeal from that decision afterwards lay to that House. He submitted that this question should not be entertained by the House before the matter was adjudicated by the Revising Barrister.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that there were two distinct questions at present before the House. One of them was, whether the parties placed on the register had any
 200
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  could see no sufficient reason for rejecting the petition on the general principle; what the House might do with it hereafter was another question.
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  said, it was admitted that there was no other effectual means of investigation than by the House of Commons. An hon. Gentleman had said, that if the overseers had been guilty of inserting names improperly, they were liable to a penalty of 500 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had nothing to complain of in the manner in which the hon. Member had introduced the petition. He had spoken with calmness and temper, and while he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) explained the facts, and his view of them to the House, earnestly and effectually, he would endeavour to follow the example of the hon. Member. He was not disposed to misrepresent or misstate the smallest part of
 207 208 209 210 l. 211 212
 Mr. Goulburn  wished to ask a question of the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs, of considerable importance. He had heard that a large number of soldiers had deserted from the garrison of Portsmouth, and had entered the service of the Queen of Spain. They had been tempted to do so in consequence of the expectation of great advantages to be obtained by those who entered the Spanish service. When attempts were made by the authorities of Portsmouth to recover these deserters, great impediments were thrown in their way by those who were intrusted with the management of the recruiting for the Queen of Spain. In some instances it could be proved that false information had been given to enable the deserters to escape. The commander of one of the vessels in the service of the Queen of Spain was asked whether certain deserters who were named to him were in his ship? and he replied that they had been on board, but that they had gone on shore. After this they were seen in the vessel, and were enabled to make their escape in consequence of the false statement made. These persons were known subsequently to have joined the
 216
 Mr. Goulburn  observed, that he was in a situation to give an unqualified contradiction to the statement of the Noble Lord, that the commanders of vessels in the Spanish service afforded any facilities for the search of their ships. On one occasion, when some deserters from the garrison were on board a vessel, the officer in command said that it was true that such men had been on board, but that they had left it: they were afterwards put on shore, and subsequently went out to the Peninsula.
 Mr. Goulburn  replied the 18th of July.
 Mr. Grove Price  wished to ask the Noble Lord a question respecting a vessel which had been taken into Gibraltar on the 15th July last. This ship had 153 Spanish subjects on board, and had been seized by those persons, who mastered the crew and carried it into Gibraltar. The name of this brig was the  Lancero, 218
 Mr. O'Connell  observed that before they took away the Lord-lieutenant from Ireland they should first do justice to the country—full, ample, and complete justice. They should treat Ireland as Scotland had been treated—they should not give to his country a stingy proportion of benefits. Let them for instance compare the Reform Bill for England with that of Ireland. Were they aware of the decision of the Carlow Committee, that no man should have a vote under 25 l. 221
 Mr. O'Connell  bore testimony to the excellent character of the Presbyterians and the Protestant Dissenters in Ireland. He should not have objected to the grant had it been for twice the amount. By the way, the Protestant Dissenters amounted to about 620,000, and the grant to them was 25,000 l. l; 222 l.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that made no difference, it was national property.
 Colonel Sibthorpe  said, he should move for a return of the compensation given to all the new-fangled Commissioners, including the Municipal Commissioners, than whom he could not conceive a more worthless or mischievous body. This would give him an opportunity of showing up the  exparte 225
 Mr. Francis Baring  observed, that this Commission had been appointed for the purpose of ascertaining the mode in which the ordinary Commissioners conducted their business, and certainly the least suitable persons to be appointed for such a purpose would have been those Commissioners themselves. It had, therefore, been considered necessary to appoint extra Commissioners, and their labours had unquestionably fully remunerated the charge which the country had to meet for them.
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  considered it discreditable to the Government to enter into a kind of partnership with the counties for defraying expenses which ought all to be borne by the Government. He was of opinion, that the whole sum should be remitted to the agriculturists who were suffering great distress.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, if the proposition were a discreditable one (which however he utterly denied) it had originated with the Committee, and not with his Majesty's Government. If the hon. Gentlemen opposite were so anxious for the agricultural interest, how was it that they had not put a vote on the subject into their own miscellaneous estimates, and thereby have shown their attachment by deeds instead of by words? This proposition of the expense of prosecutions of criminals had been adopted, by the Irish Government with the very best effect. Indeed, how could it be otherwise; the local interest must be identified in such cases with the general interest. The Government did not talk as loudly as other parties on the subject of their anxiety to succour the distress of the agricultural interest, but it had been, and would be found to be, as anxious as any hon. Member on the Opposition benches to afford to that great interest any just measure of relief to which it was entitled.
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  said, that he was far from thinking the local Magistrates co-operated as they ought to do in endeavouring to keep down the county-rates. He thought the best results would follow from sending down a special officer to enforce the general observance of a uniform rule as to these expenses, and that a very important saving would be effected in the local Government.
 Colonel Sibthorpe  said, that the agricultural interest could not have worse friends, or rather more bitter enemies, than his Majesty's present Ministers. The Poor-law Bill, for instance, was one of the greatest hardships that had ever been inflicted on the people. As a Magistrate, he had refused, and would continue to refuse, to enforce the Act in certain cases, for he could not see why any individual, male or female, who had lived in a state of respectability, should be compelled to go to the workhouse, instead of receiving some assistance from the parish. His Majesty's Ministers had not done a single beneficial act for agriculture. If they had, he would sit on their side of the House, disclaiming all party feeling.
 Mr. Kemeys Tynte,  adverting to the Poor-law Amendment Act said, that at a general meeting, before the passing of the Act, in the county which he had the honour to represent, there were but three hands held up against it; and that it was now generally acknowledged that it operated uniformly well.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought the observation of the hon. Member for Wilts had no reference to the question before the Committee. This was not a period to waste time in irrelevant discussions.
 The Marquess of Chandos  thought that the vote was one which ought not to be pressed at such a moment as the present. He trusted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would allow some further time for its consideration. It was not usual for such a proposition to be brought forward in the estimates.
 Mr. Wallace  thought that the expense of prosecutions should be made a general charge upon the country at large, and should not be discharged out of the county rates.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  opposed the vote, on the ground that the parties to whom the money was proposed to be given ought, in common prudence, to have insured their property, and failing in that point of prudence had no claim for compensation from the country.
 Mr. O'Connell  defended the vote, and maintained that the parties had a  bonâ fide
 Mr. Francis Baring  said, that the question was tried before Mr. Justice Crampton, who laid it down, that if the jury were satisfied the fire was the result of wilful misconduct on the part of the Custom-house officer, then the case came within the meaning of the Act. The jury did decide that the fire was the result of wilful misconduct; this grant, therefore, was only in accordance with the law.
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  did not think this was a case in which the public were bound to make good the loss sustained. The Act had expired before the action was brought, and he considered the Government to have gone beyond their duty by allowing the merchants to have the benefit of the Act, as if it had not expired. It was
 229
 Mr. Goulburn  considered that the Government had improperly given advantage to the parties claiming compensation. The Act under which they claimed had expired; the Government allowed the merchants of Dublin the benefit of the Act as if it had not expired, but they deprived the public of the benefit of the same Act of Parliament which subjected the officer, by whose negligence the fire was occasioned, to prosecution. The jury consequently, were relieved from all check on account of the liability to which they would have exposed the officer, and were open to the unrestrained influence of sympathy for the merchants who were sufferers by the calamity. But he would contend that the Act in question did not contemplate the occurrence of an accidental fire arising from the negligence of the officer; it only applied to a distinct and positive act of wilful injury on the part of the officer. He believed that the Government had been over-persuaded by those who advocated the cause of the merchants in this transaction. This grant would establish a very dangerous precedent; and he, therefore, agreed that it was necessary some Bill should be introduced upon the subject.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  denied that his noble Friend (Lord Althorp) was either inveigled or outwitted on this occasion; he did only what was just in allowing the question to go to a jury in the manner it had done.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that so far from its being a favour to the prosecutors to be allowed to bring the case before the jury in the manner in which it was brought forward, every effort, on their part, was made to try it as a criminal question against the officer; but they were not allowed to do so.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  moved that this Bill be now read a second time.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had hoped that the House would have no objection to the Bill being read a second time that night if the discussion were taken in another stage of the measure. He was sure, however, that his hon. and learned Friend, consulting the convenience of the House, would postpone the second reading, on condition that an arrangement were made for the Bill being read a second time on the next occasion of its standing on the Orders without further delay.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer,  after what had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Shaw), hoped that the House would support his hon. and learned Friend in moving the second reading of the Bill.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : I only ask the House to consider how the case stands. I put it to the House, whether anything could be fairer than the proposition I made to it. The hon. and learned Gentleman, who was the only hon. Member who had spoken on that side, asked for postponement; I said, "If you ask for it merely on account of the lateness of the
 232
 Mr. Ruthven  said, that such an observation came well from the learned Recorder, who supported the Corporation of Dublin in all their gross peculations and abuses, and was their legal adviser in the opposition which they gave to this Bill [ "Order, and Chair."
 Mr. Ruthven  said, that the words he had used were not directed to a Member of the House, but to an official person out of the House—he meant the Recorder of Dublin.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that if the expressions used were objectionable and offensive, it did not signify whether they were applied to a Member of the House, or to a person out of the House. It was equally the duty of the hon. Member to retract them, particularly as he had been called upon to do so by the Chair.
 Mr. Ruthven  observed, that the Corporation of Dublin was a many-headed monster—the hydra of corruption and misrule, and then referring to certain persons who had mixed themselves up with shameful conduct—
 Mr. Ruthven  said, what he meant to state was this, that the House could not proceed to pass this Bill without encountering the opposition of persons who were anxious to perpetuate the abuses which it sought to remedy.
 Mr. Ruthven  said, it was very curious that everything bad which was said at that side of the House must be taken to apply to hon. Gentlemen opposite. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Shaw) was mistaken, however, if he supposed that he could be whitewashed by calling for any explanation from him.
 Mr. Ruthven  in obedience to the wish expressed by the Chair, begged to say, that he retracted any words that might have given offence to any hon. Member of the House.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it did not appear to him that there would be any use in continuing a discussion of that nature, and he hoped that when they came formally to the consideration of the Question which gave rise to the present conversation, they would approach it with calmness and with moderation. He trusted that was scarcely necessary for him to assure
 236
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought that the proposition to extend the inquiry to England was one which the House could not but accede to. He was of opinion that there could have been no objection to an instruction to the former Committee, if it had been sitting, to extend its inquiries, and all that was now proposed was to ap-
 237
 Mr. Wallace  said, this was a question not affecting England only. It had been shown that the Governor of Edinburgh Castle was an Orangeman. He would contend that there ought to be the strictest investigation into this plot—for such he would call it. They did not know to what extent it went, they did not know that it was not meant to subvert the succession to the Throne. He would assert in his place in Parliament, that it was meant to do so. On the 12th of July, for the first time, riots had broken out in Scotland, and all the circumstances ought to be closely examined into. The Orange Lodge system affected the three kingdoms; and he was so impressed with the belief that the illustrious personage to whom reference had been made, was deeply implicated in it, that nothing could satisfy him to the contrary, short of a most searching investigation.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, if this were the first time the Question had been before the House, he admitted they would have no right, at this late hour, to call on the hon. Gentlemen opposite to accede to the Motion; but the Question was conceded by the late Government; it was carried without a division; and the Motion was seconded by an hon. Gentleman who was himself connected with the Orange Lodges. His Royal Highness's connexion with the society was not the object of the inquiry, but part of it; and the inconvenience was what he had exposed himself to by the high office which he had consented to fill.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he would most willingly listen to the appeal of his noble Friend, if it were founded in reason and justice. His noble Friend put it on the ground of a postponement till tomorrow, but other hon. Members were desirous to postpone the Question altogether. Now, let them understand each other. If the delay sought was merely a delay until tomorrow, and that no objection would then be made to the revival of the Committee, he would not object to the postponement till then; but if the object was to defeat the inquiry tomorrow, he should persist in his opposition to the Motion.
 Mr. Scarlett  contended that the effect of this Motion would be directly to interfere with the discipline of the army, and therefore he was opposed to it. He had heard that by Reform the House of Commons would become too strong for the King's Government, and this, he thought, verified that statement to the fullest extent. If such an inquiry were granted all he could say was, that if they did not exempt the army from it, they would be setting the prerogative of the Crown at defiance.
 Mr. Bennett  regretted to see the enemies of the agricultural interests seize on so trifling an occasion as the present to inveigh against that interest. How was it possible that they could now say, that the high price of corn affected the manufacturing interest? Nevertheless, and in spite of facts, the hon. Member for Middlesex persisted in his attempt to run down the agricultural interest. The present was the first time at which any boon, however trifling, had been proposed for the land, and he hailed it with great pleasure. There could be no doubt, however, that the whole expense of the poor ought to be borne equally by persons possessing property generally, and not by the landholders alone. The Legislature had refused to give the agricultural interest a paper currency, which would have been a great benefit to them: let them provide that the Poor-rate should be levied on the general fund of the country, a proposition which he hoped he should soon see carried into effect. That would be a substantial benefit to agriculture.
 Mr. Aaron Chapman  opposed the grant, and contended that the Act of Parliament, under which the question was tried, did not apply to the case of fire.
 Colonel Perceval  said, that unless the hon. Member for Salford persevered in moving the adjournment of the House, he would move it himself.
 Mr. Pringle  thought it quite out of the question that at this late period of the Session they could go into such an inquiry, or consent at that late hour of the night to any such Motion.
 Mr. Charles Ross  said, that there was not an allegation in the petition against the Vestry with the exception of that which the hon. Member himself admitted—namely, that they had appointed a Committee of Registration. The petition stated that a gross fraud had been practised by the insertion of those forty-two names. Now the very fact which the hon. Member admitted as to the Vestry fully justified the petitioners in making that charge. If the Vestry were to act with the overseers in the preparation of the list, and if the overseers could not act without the aid of the Vestry, then the Vestry became responsible for the transaction, and was one of the parties chargeable for it. The charge in the petition was this—that after the overseer had closed the lists, and sent them to be printed, the Vestry took possession of the list, and that at a time when no more claims could be sent into the overseer, forty-two claimants were put upon the list, whether with or without the cognizance of the said claimants, he (Mr. Charles Ross) could not say. He did not want to argue the merit of those claims. He would maintain, however, that the petitioners had a perfect right to make the complaint they did. That complaint was, that long subsequent to the time prescribed by the Act of Parliament for the officers receiving notices of claims, those names were inserted in the list.
 Colonel Sibthorp  had great pleasure in seconding the Motion. He thought that the course proposed by hon. Gentlemen was most unfair—a course which he believed few of them would be disposed to pursue with respect to political unions.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said the public would not be rendered liable unless proof could be afforded that the property was destroyed by wilful misconduct on the part of the officer. He admitted, however, that until the decision in this case was given, he was not aware that such a construction could be put upon the Act of Parliament, and he was glad to find that the general opinion of the House was, that a necessity existed for introducing a measure to protect the country from being subject to the charge arising from fire in bonded warehouses. At the same time no one could justly object to the present vote.
 Mr. Baines  had abstained from taking any part in the discussion upon the repeal of the Stamp Duty on Newspapers, often as it had been before the House, from an apprehension that his motives might be misapprehended; he had therefore hitherto contented himself with giving a silent vote for the repeal of the duty; he might now, however, be allowed to say, on the petition before the House, that the petitioner could be no more surprised at his printing-presses and types being seized when they were engaged in printing newspapers without stamps in defiance of the law, than a shipowner could be surprised who, having lent his vessel to carry on smuggling, found that the revenue officers had seized her. In both cases the trade was contraband, and the consequences might be expected to be alike ruinous. The hon. Member for Middlesex had stated, that nothing short of the removal of the whole duty on newspapers would be satisfactory either to the press or to the people. He (Mr. Baines) was sure that this was not the general sentiment. If Ministers were not in a situation to take off the whole tax, he hoped that they would not, on that account, be
 214 l. l.; l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Edward Lytton Bulwer  asked if the right hon. Gentleman would name a day upon which the discussion upon the Stamp Duties could be taken? [The Chancellor of the Exchequer was understood to say he could not.] The hon. Member then stated that he would endeavour to bring the subject forward on Friday; and that he could state, that any plan which would leave a duty of a penny upon newspapers would be taken only as a present compromise, and that nothing short of the complete and entire abolition of the duty would satisfy the country.
 Mr. Fitzstephen French  could not allow a vote of this description to pass over without observation. He would call the attention of the hon. Member for Middlesex to the paltry vote of 702 l. l. l. 223 l. l., 224
 Mr. Shaw  said, that as the case had been adjudicated on by a court of law, he thought it would be hard that the merchants should be deprived of the advantage of the verdict they had obtained.
 Mr. Shaw  was determined not to submit to such language as had been used by the hon. Member for Dublin, unless the Speaker ruled that it was orderly.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that the hon. Member for Dublin had been guilty of the most disorderly language in imputing to him a desire to support peculations and abuses. He was desirous to vindicate himself from such a gross and unfounded attack, and he called upon the hon. Member to retract the expressions he had used.
 Mr. Shaw  repeated, that he did not mean to ask for the postponement of the Bill on the ground that it would be improper to take the discussion upon it in Committee, but because it was most unfair to the parties whose interests were affected to bring on the measure at such a period of the Session. The city of Dublin comprised one-third of the whole of the Irish Corporations, as stated by the Attorney-General for Ireland, and he had that day received an application from the Corporation of Dublin, stating that they were wholly ignorant of the evidence on which the Bill was founded, they never having received a copy of the Report of the Commissioners, and indeed it was impossible they should, for the first part of that Report (the other not being yet published) had only been put into the hands of Members the middle of that day. Was the Legislature to deprive the citizens of Dublin of Charters, privileges, and property, which they had enjoyed for more than six centuries, not only without hearing either evidence or statement on their behalf—but without even letting them see a copy of the charge made against them? It was inconsistent with every principle of sound legislation and justice. He was no advocate of abuses—he had no objection to true Reform, and on the proper occasion would be ready dispassionately to enter upon the entire Question as regarded the Corporations in Ireland—but at that period of the Session, when most of the leading Members unconnected with office had left town, and above all, before the local Reports were published, he earnestly protested against the measure being forced through the House by the mere numerical strength of a Ministerial majority. The Ministers knew the Bill could not be discussed this Session; but such might be their object. They knew it was impossible the measure could become a law during the present Session, but it might serve a party purpose to have it thrown out elsewhere. All he could say was, that if the Ministry did force on the Bill in that House; he would take no part in the dis-
 233
 Mr. Shaw,  I only ask whether it is decent to proceed at this hour of the night to read a Bill of such importance a second time.
 Mr. Shaw  was persuaded that it would be quite impossible to proceed with the Bill this Session. He would, therefore, oppose any postponement of the second reading, if it were done as a compromise, and on the understanding that some future arrangement should be made. He was quite convinced, that if the Bill were passed this Session, it must be forced through the House by the main strength of a majority, and without any opportunity for a fair discussion of its provisions. He should, therefore ask no favour, and accept no compromise. If the Motion were passed, he should shortly state the grounds on which he entered his protest against it: but he should certainly ask for no accommodation at the hands of his Majesty's Ministers.
 Mr. Shaw  trusted the hon. and learned Gentleman would see the perfect impossibility of proceeding with so important a measure at that hour of the night.
 Mr. Shaw  could state, on authority, that the illustrious Duke had not the slightest knowledge of the existence of Orange Lodges in the army. He thought the proposed course calculated to prejudice the case.
 Mr. Shaw  said, he thought it fair to state that taking into consideration the late period of the Session, and that it would be impossible for the Bill to be properly discussed, he should content himself on Wednesday with entering his Protest against it; he would be no party to the discussion of a measure under such circumstances. If he had said any thing in connexion with this subject that had wounded the feelings of hon. Gentlemen he was sorry for it: all he intended was, to point out the difficulties in the way of giving, at this period of the Session, to a Bill of so much importance, the attention which it ought to receive.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that one part of a speech made by him in Dublin had been alluded to by the hon. Member for Middlesex, in which he was reported to have said, that "those who differed from him were Infidels in religion, and Revolutionists in politics." What he did say, was, "those who opposed the institutions of the country, would be joined by all who were Infidel in religion, and Revolutionary in politics." As to the rest of the report, it was substantially correct.
 Mr. Shaw  begged to state, that what he had said was, that they might now use it for party purposes.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that his object was not to oppose the Motion generally; he had not even made up his mind which way he should vote. What he understood was, that the postponement was sought till tomorrow, that a better opportunity might be afforded for discussing the question.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that the refusal of the hon. Member for Middlesex to postpone his Motion, in order to give an opportunity for its full discussion, had placed him (Mr. Shaw) and the Gentlemen at his side in the disagreeable position of objecting to the further progress of the public business. It was clear they had a power of preventing further business from going on, and he put it to the candour of the noble Lord and the right hon. Gentleman opposite, whether it was fair to urge a Motion of the kind under such circumstances.
 Mr. Robinson  was not disposed to resist the claim after what had been stated to be the law, as he did not think it would be right to impugn the decision of the jury.
 Mr. Robinson  said; even were the petition laid upon the Table, it was not likely that the House would adopt any ulterior proceeding, though he had heard no good reason why it should not.
 Mr. George F. Young  said, it was not candid in the hon. and learned Member for Dublin to omit to state that the Established religion was not supported by grants from the House but by endowments.
 Mr. George F. Young  feared that the opinion which had just been stated by the hon. and learned Gentleman would have the effect of spreading dismay and alarm among the proprietors of warehouses and the holders of Dock shares. If the principle were laid down that any warehouse-keeper was responsible for goods in his possession destroyed by fire, they would be subject to a liability they had never knowingly incurred, and which had never attached to them before.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that if he had been so charged he should have begged that the Committee might sit from day to day: and he should have exclaimed, "Heaven defend me from such friends as the hon. Gentlemen opposite!" who urged delay.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  resumed—He would read the language of which the right hon. Gentleman made use from his own paper—from the organ of his own party— Saunders's News-Letter. 235
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, he wished to know if the right hon. Gentleman had not used those words, and if they did not relate to the Corporation Question.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  wished to call the attention of the House to a speech made some time ago by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, the Recorder of Dublin, on the subject of Corporation Reform, in which he was reported to have said, that his Majesty's Government knew that they could not carry forward to its completion the proposed measure of Reform in the course of the present Session of Parliament, and he that night said, that they were now only urging it forward for party purposes.
 The Speaker  said, that the hon. Gentleman might put his question to the right hon. and learned Recorder of Dublin, provided he did so without any comment tending to convey offence.
 The Speaker  interposed, and called the attention of the hon. Gentleman to the breach of order he was about to commit.
 The Speaker  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Recorder of Dublin, had called for an explanation of the expres-
 234
 The Speaker  must appeal to the House to support him in maintaining the order and decorum of their proceedings. The hon. Gentleman, the Member for Dublin, had used expressions which the House could not sanction, and he once more put it to the good feeling of the hon. Gentleman to withdraw the words he had used.
 The Speaker  said, that the hon. Member for Dublin had undoubtedly used very strong expressions to a Member of the House, but he was quite sure that he would be willing to retract them.
 Dr. Bowring  would not object to the vote, though he could not but express his anxiety and alarm at the awful responsibility which this vote was about to impose upon the public.
 Dr. Bowring  objected to the grant altogether. He thought it inconsistent in Protestant Dissenters to benefit by a principle of the injustice of which they complained. In his opinion no religion ought to be paid for by the State. The Presbyterians of Ireland ought to set the example of letting each religion support its own Ministers. Many of them indeed had, and some of the clergy had refused to be pastors over flocks which consented to receive the  Regium Donum.
 Dr. Nicholl  understood from his noble Friend, the Chairman of the Committee, that this individual was not unwilling to be examined; but he only withheld his evidence in consequence of the threats that had been thrown out, that legal proceedings would be instituted against him in consequence of the part he had taken in the Yarmouth election; and he feared that the evidence he might be called upon to give would be made to tell against him.
 Dr. Nicholl  said, that the prayer of the
 201
 Dr. Nicholl  said, that there was no Question before the House. An hon. Member had moved the second reading of the Irish Municipal Reform Bill, and the Question upon that Motion had not as yet been put.
 Dr. Nicholl  moved that the House do adjourn.
 Dr. Nicholl  said, this was a subject which required debate, but it being impossible that they could enter into the question at so late an hour, he should move if the Motion were persisted in, that the House should adjourn.
 Dr. Nicholl  said, the graver the charge made, the more necessary was it that such a motion should not be disposed of at a time of the night when it could not receive the consideration which was due to it. He thought that the question ought at least to be postponed till to morrow-night.
 Dr. Nicholl  was not conscious that he had deserved the severe terms in which the hon. and learned Gentleman had adverted to his conduct.
 Dr. Nicholl  felt that the Motion could not be discussed with fairness tonight. He did not rise to offer any defence for the Duke of Cumberland in any way, but he objected in the commencement on grounds that were known to him, as a member of the Committee, to the Motion generally. All he sought, however, at present was, that the debate should be put off till tomorrow, in order that the subject should have a fair discussion. But he did not say that he tomorrow would not oppose the Motion.
 Dr. Nicholl  did not wish to shrink from any inquiry which proceeded on a fair principle.
 Mr. Roebuck  rose to bring forward the Petition of which he had given notice, and the presentation of which had been already once postponed, respecting a Seizure made under the authority of the Stamp-office. The petition, to a certain extent, involved the character of the present Government; but, although he felt strongly the injustice and misconduct of which it complained, he would state as calmly as he could the circumstances of the case. Process had been issued against two persons of the names of Cleave and Hetherington, but some time was allowed to elapse before it was acted upon. On a sudden, however, Government displayed an activity it had not previously shown, and
 203 204 205 206
 Mr. Roebuck  must protest against such a question being put. The hon. Member had no right to put the question. The House had no right to entertain the subject. They were a Court of Appeal from the Revising Barrister, and had therefore no right to entertain a question which had still to be decided before his tribunal.
 Mr. Roebuck  admitted, that there was a necessity to enforce the law, but the law itself was bad and ought to be repealed. But as the right hon. Gentleman was determined to enforce the law, he trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would do so equally in all cases, and as the law had been enforced against the Dorchester labourers for forming secret societies, he hoped the Orange Lodges would not escape. If those lodges were punished, he might give the right hon. Member credit for his zeal; if otherwise, he should think that the right hon. Gentleman looked more to individuals than to the laws. In the particular case before the House he re-asserted that one man was punished by having his presses taken for the faults of another.
 Mr. Roebuck  was opposed to the grant. The hon. and learned Gentleman had compared the Protestant Dissenters to the members of the Establishment; but he would compare the Roman Catholics to the Dissenters, and say, that as the former did without any grant, none ought to be allowed to the latter.
 Mr. Brotherton  moved, that the further consideration of the Question before the House be adjourned to Wednesday next.
 Mr. Brotherton  rose apparently with the intention of moving the adjournment (it was half-past twelve o'clock); but on the Speaker proceeding to read the other Orders of the Day, resumed his seat.
 Mr. Brotherton  rose and said, he should move the immediate adjournment of the House if the Motion were persevered in.
 Mr. Brotherton  was again called for, and again rose to move the adjournment. After a little hesitation the hon. Member for London consented to postpone the second reading until a future day.
 Mr. Hume  moved for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the Orange Lodges in Great Britain and the Colonies. He said that he had the authority of the hon. Gentleman who was Chairman of the late Committee (Mr. Patten) to put his name down amongst those whom the House might appoint as the Committee on the present occasion.
 Mr. Hume  said, he could at once show grounds for the present Motion. The hon. Gentleman then stated that he held in his hand a paper, from which it appeared that at a meeting over which the Duke of Cumberland presided, warrant 254 was granted to a private of the 6th battalion of Royal Artillery, and warrant 260 to private Wilson, of the 17th. He put it to the hon. Gentleman whether, after that statement, he would persevere in his opposition.
 Mr. Hume  contended, that no boon should, or ought to be given to the agriculturists so long as they were suffered to possess the odious monopoly in food granted them by the existing Corn-laws. These ought, injustice to this great manufacturing community to be forthwith repealed. He agreed that a public functionary sent down, as recommended by the hon. Baronet, would effect much good, by introducing a general rule and a strict scale of expense in these cases of prosecution. He wished the House to remark, that the Committee which sanctioned this change from the old law and practice were all of them agricultural Members. He protested against this vote, as one altogether uncalled for by the circumstances of the times. Government would not be justified in making any concession in favour of the agricultural interest, unless they were prepared, in the first instance, to yield up the unjust monopoly they now possessed in supplying this kingdom with the staff of life.
 Mr. Hume  contended that they had arrived at the period when they should get
 220
 Mr. Hume  said, that the law prescribed a regular tribunal for deciding this matter, and that before the adjudication of that tri-
 199
 Mr. Hume  said, that this was not a question of revenue, but a question of policy, whether they should go on with a system under which 500 persons had already been imprisoned. He hoped that the hon. Member for Lincoln would bring the subject forward before the Budget was produced. He thought that the reduction of the duties would be no relief to the stamped press, and that no satisfaction would be given to the people unless the whole duty on newspapers was removed.
 Mr. Pease  presented a petition from William Prentice, now a prisoner in Newgate, having been guilty of a breach of privilege of the House, in having refused to answer certain questions put to him by the Yar-
 215
 Mr. Pease  moved "That the Speaker do issue his warrant to have William Prentice brought up from Newgate to be examined tomorrow before the Yarmouth Committee."
 Mr. Pease  opposed the Motion.
 Mr. Sergeant Perrin  hoped the House would not object to the Corporation Reform Bill being now read a second time. In that hope he would make the Motion.
 Mr. Borthwick,  if the objection were raised on the merits of the Motion, would vote with the hon. Member for Middlesex; but if it were merely for a delay in order to secure a full discussion, he would support the Motion for an adjournment.
 Mr. Sheil  contended, that the state of business tomorrow would absolutely preclude any better chance of bringing the Question forward than there was at the present moment. The hon. and learned Member (Dr. Nicholl) objected to the discussion in the absence of the Chairman of the late Committee, yet it appeared that the hon. Chairman had authorized the hon. Member for Middlesex to put down his name as a member of the new Committee. If the hon. Member had any peculiar reasons to urge against the formation of this Committee, he could have stated them in
 242
 Mr. Sheil  disavowed any intention of saying a word that could have wounded the feelings of the hon. and learned Gentleman, or of any Member of that House. He appealed to the whole of his conduct since he became a Member of that House, and he could safely assert he never intentionally used a harsh expression towards any Member in it. Certainly he had never entertained any feeling towards the hon. and learned Gentleman which could tempt him to the use of any such language.
 Mr. Sheil  said, that disclosures had taken place within the last two or three days which rendered it impossible not to go on. That being the case, he contended the subject ought to be probed to the bottom. Were they to be told, with such facts before them, that any further inquiry was to be postponed for six months, and that in the interval the Orange Lodges were to go on extending their influence in the British Army. If there was any individual particularly interested in the question, it was an illustrious personage whose name he would not mention, and not to pursue this inquiry into all the circumstances would be a great injustice to him.
 Mr. Wakley  supposed that he must join with other hon. Members in not opposing this grant. He begged to state, however, that such grants as these prevented the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer from taking the tax off newspapers. He gave notice that next Session he would divide the House on every similar Motion, unless the Newspaper-tax were taken off.
 Mr. Wakley  was surprised that any hon. Member would think it extraordinary that fifteen claims should be registered out of one burying-ground, when, for one respectable Conservative building in the Strand, not less than eighty-five good respectable Conservative votes had been registered two years since, and fifty stood registered for it this year.
 Mr. Mackinnon,  as an inhabitant of Marylebone, must state that this transaction had given great dissatisfaction there. He was astonished to hear the hon. Member opposite assert, that when petitioners felt themselves aggrieved, they should not complain. These forty-two names were foisted on the list while all the other Members of the Vestry were ignorant of the claim. Thus, a positive injury, supposing the claim a well-founded one, was done to the other Members of the Vestry. In proof that the thing had been improperly done, he would just ask the hon. Member for Mary-le-bone, whose name formed one of the forty-two, if he had been previously consulted before his name was put there? Let the hon. Member answer that question.
 Mr. Ormsby Gore  was confident that there was no good reason why this petition should be rejected. It was couched in respectful language, and the prayer was, that the House would vindicate the law. There was a Clause in the Vestry Act of Mary-le-bone, which enabled the Vestry to interfere with the overseers in making out the list. According to the same Act, any rate-payer had not only a right to inspect the books, but to take a copy of them. According to the Reform Act, the overseers were bound to furnish a list of the claimants to vote, and to sign that list. Subsequently to the time when the list was completed and sent to the printer's, forty-two additional names were inserted, and two guineas were paid into the bank to the credit of the parish, but not through the hands of the overseers. Such a mode of proceeding was irregular, as it would deprive the overseers of a power which they had at present under the Reform Act—namely, that of writing "objected to," against the name of any voter in the list. The prayer of the petition could not be reasonably objected to. Here were forty-two claimants for votes out of one burying-ground to the parish of Mary-le-bone. The teeth of the Cadmean dragon were never so prolific, and they ought to be denominated the "spectre-voters."
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  wished to call the attention of his Majesty's Ministers to some gross frauds which were practised Under this grant. For instance, money was drawn, purporting to be for three congregations in Dublin, whilst only one of them had been in existence for the last twenty-years. And in a parish in the county of Antrim a salary had been drawn in the name of the rev. Mr. Rice, although that Gentleman had separated himself from the congregation in that parish for more than twenty years. He rose merely to make these statements, and not for the purpose of offering any opposition to the grant.
 Sir Harry Verney  observed, that the Committee had recommended the defraying of burthens which fell upon the agricultural interest by the public.
 Mr. Henry L. Bulwer,  being one of the
 202
 The Attorney-General  said, that it was quite clear that the prayer of this petition could not be granted. With all respect for the House, he had an opinion, that the House could not interfere in any case determinable by the regular tribunals of the country, even after sentence, unless there were strong proofs of corruption adduced against them. Still less could it interfere with any case before sentence; because then  "lis est sub judice." No!
 The Attorney-General  said, after what had been said by his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he had but one or two remarks to make. The hon. Member for Marylebone said that he hoped the prayer of the petition would be listened to; now what was the petition? The petitioner stated that he had lent the printing presses to Cleave, and that they were seized. He, however, had no commiseration for Lovett; for that individual must have known that the presses were lent for the purpose of violating the law, and enabling Cleave to commit a fraud. The offence of Cleave was as much a fraud as if he had committed any other species of smuggling. The hon. Member for Bath admitted the legality of the seizure, and he (the Attorney-General) contended that it was not alone legal, but justifiable. The hon. Member was mistaken in saying that the law was dormant. So far was that from being the case, that there was hardly a printing press within the bills of mortality
 213
 The Attorney-General  remarked, that within his own time, the prosecutor used almost always to defray the expenses of the prosecution. He felt that in this grant of 110,000 l., l.
 The Attorney-General  said, that a better opinion had been pronounced with reference to the construction of the Act than that of the Law Officer of the Crown. It was the opinion of the learned Judge who tried the cause. If, however, the authority of the humble individual who was then addressing the House were any confirmation of that decision, he should say, that he entirely concurred in it. The public entered into an implied contract with the owners of the goods in question to preserve them. They were placed in the warehouse of the public; they were destroyed by the negligence of a servant of the public, and the public were bound to remunerate the owners.
 Sir Robert Inglis  rose to order. The hon. Member for Dublin had applied expressions of an offensive nature to the right hon. Gentleman, and he was bound to retract them.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  said, that the frequent and unsuccessful attempts to put down the unstamped press fully showed that the public opinion was unfavourable to a stamped press, and that means ought, therefore, to be taken to alter the law in that respect. Four hundred or 500 persons had been imprisoned within the last five years for breaches of the Stamp Laws; and when they thought of the lavish waste both of money and liberty which that circumstance showed, he hoped the House would agree with him as to the propriety of altering those laws. The law had been even a little strained to make it meet the present case. He held documents in his hand which clearly showed that the presses belonged to other parties in consequence of an agreement made so long ago as 1828, and he therefore contended that the seizure was not only impolitic, but unjust, which mulcted parties other than the real offenders.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  said, the property was worth 3,000 l 
 Sir Samuel Whalley  said, that with every wish to afford every facility to the right of petition, he must say, that he thought the House should not receive this petition. With regard to the first allegation in the petition as to an alleged improper interference on the part of the Vestry with the list of voters, he begged to state, that by the law in Marylebone the custody of the ratebooks was placed in the hands of the Select Vestry; by the law there, the overseer had no access to them, and it was not in his power to complete the lists of voters without first submitting them to the Select Vestry. By the law, therefore, under the Reform Bill, the Vestry was obliged to act, and it did act, in making out the list of voters. It did so in its own Court. It had acted so for the last three years in assisting the overseer in making out the lists, and during all that time there had not been a suspicion that a single name had been inserted or omitted in the lists improperly. That was all that the Vestry had done in this instance. He was authorized to give the most positive and unequivocal denial to the allegation in the petition, that the Vestry, as a Vestry, had otherwise interfered. It was true, that individual Members of the Vestry, acting not as the Vestry, but in their individual capacity—it was true, that such individuals, to the number of forty-two, had claimed to be inserted in the register for a property of 3,000 l. bonâ fide 198
 Viscount Howick  admitted that some subordinate persons employed in enlisting troops for the Queen of Spain, had induced some of the soldiers of the garrison of Portsmouth to desert, and enter the Spanish service; but this was done, not only contrary to the desire of the officer in command of the Spanish auxiliary force, but against his express orders. Lord Hill had issued an order for the trial of the individuals who had deserted, and proceedings had been instituted against those who had encouraged them to desert. If the parties guilty of this conduct were not in the British army, they would be proceeded against for the penalties. It was but justice to state, that the officers in the Spanish service had done every thing in their power to prevent the enlistment of deserters, and had afforded every facility for the discovery of them, on search being made by the officers of the garrison. Orders had also been issued that no recruiting should be allowed in Portsmouth or its neighbourhood.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that very recently his attention had been called to these special cases, principally, he believed, through the instrumentality of the hon. Gentleman. If the statements that had reached him were true, they were undoubtedly abuses which required correction. At all events, he would undertake to ascertain the facts of these cases.
 Viscount Palmerston  in reply to the first question, said, that his Majesty's Government had received a communication from the authorities of Gibraltar on the subject. He (Lord Palmerston) had likewise received, that morning, a letter from the British Minister at the Court of Madrid, detailing the facts of the case. The vessel that was taken into Gibraltar had on board 153 persons, destined to be conveyed to the Havannah, and a crew of fifteen or sixteen sailors, which certainly was too small, considering what was the object of the voyage. These persons were not taken up on mere surmise, as was supposed by the hon. Gentleman, but had been tried and convicted by due process of law. The proper authorities in Madrid had informed the British Minister that those men had been fairly tried and convicted of the most serious offences against the Government, and had been sentenced to transportation to the colonies. It appeared that the Spanish authorities did not apportion a sufficient number of guards to the number of persons who were to be conveyed to the Havannah; they, therefore, rose on the crew, and four or five of the latter were wounded. They then carried the ship into Gibraltar, and were landed there. The Spanish Consul claimed them as subjects of the Queen of Spain, who had been tried and convicted of certain offences; this claim, however, was refused. He then demanded that they should be detained on the charge of seizing
 219
 Viscount Palmerston  stated that he had been informed last week, that matters were
 217
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had asked whether his Majesty's Government had sanctioned the appropriation of one of his Majesty's ships for the reception of troops who had entered the service of the Queen of Spain. The facts of the case were shortly these:—the Spanish Ambassador had applied to the Government to allow dépôts to be formed at the outports for the reception of recruits for the Spanish service until they could be embarked for the Peninsula. The Government thought that it would be better, both for the recruits and for the inhabitants of the places from whence they were to embark, that they should not be allowed to wander about or to assemble in large numbers on shore, but that they should be kept on shipboard until their final embarkation. On these grounds it was, that the hulk had been allotted for the temporary use of those parties who managed the enlistment for the service of the Queen of Spain.—These persons not only allowed a constant search of the vessel for deserters, but they manifested great anxiety that no vessel should be allowed to depart from Portsmouth, or any other port, with Spanish troops on board, until it had been strictly searched by the proper authorities.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, the noble Lord had talked of the tyranny of a majority, but to him it appeared that the unyielding opposition of a minority to an important measure, without any valid reasons for such opposition being assigned, was a species of tyranny quite as objectionable as any other. It was admitted that the statement of the hon. Member for Middlesex rendered it necessary that there should be an inquiry, and yet it was proposed to postpone that inquiry. The ground taken for the postponement was, that the statement made affected an illustrious person. Now, he would ask, what better mode of vindicating the illustrious individual could be adopted, than the inquiry which the hon. Member for Middlesex moved for? One hon. Gentleman recommended the postponement of the inquiry till next year. Would not this be most improper, to deprive the illustrious individual of the opportunity of showing that the charge made was not maintainable. He trusted that a better reason would be shown for vexatiously obstructing public business by repeated motions for adjournment, or that they would be abandoned.
 Viscount Palmerston  said the appointment of the Committee would not compromise anybody. It was a following up the inquiry already agreed upon. The facts which had come out in the course of this discussion, instead of being a reason for postponing the inquiry, were, in his opinion, good grounds for urging it forward.
 Lord Sandon  asked, if a charge of the kind had been made against the noble Lord, would he think his accuser had acted fairly towards him if he urged on an inquiry connected with that charge at half-past two o'clock in the morning? Charges of this kind would go before the public, and it might be weeks or months before their refutation would ooze out in the report of a Committee. One hon. Member had said that he could state reasons why the Committee ought not to be appointed, if he had time; and another complained of great fatigue; and all that was asked was a delay of twelve hours, in order to afford full time for the discussion of the question, yet a majority of that House refused that reasonable request. He did not speak about the case itself, or about the individuals connected with it; he spoke for the honour
 241
 Lord Sandon  objected to the urging on of so important a Question at that hour (past two o'clock) in the morning, particularly in the absence of so many Members, who would, if present, be disposed to take part in the discussion. He was quite sure that this was a course which the House, according to its general practice, would not allow to be taken with a common Turnpikeroad Bill, if it were objected to. He was not in any way connected, politically or otherwise, with the illustrious individual whose name had been mentioned; on the
 240
 Lord Sandon  put it to the hon. Gentle-
 238
 Lord Sandon  thought, that upon the I
 227
 Lord Viscount Sandon  said, as the law at present stood, the parties injured had no remedy; there had been an improper interference with the persons whose duty it was to prepare the lists, and it certainly appeared to him, that persons who had been guilty of so gross a breach of the law ought to be punished. This was a case not provided for in the Reform Act, and, therefore, a very proper subject for a petition.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  would yield to no one in the House in a desire to protect the interests of the poor equally with those of the rich, and the present Bill had for its object the benefit of ths whole public, rich or poor. He must, however, object to inserting the proposition of the hon. Member for Finsbury in the present Bill, the preamble to which expressly described it as one intended to refer only to public carriages. If the hon. Member chose at a future period to introduce a separate Bill to promote his object he would not oppose it.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  said, the necessity for this longer Bill had been partly thrown upon him by the hon. Member's opposition to the short measure of three Clauses, which he had originally proposed, and which threw the task of making bye-laws on the subject of public carriages on the Court of Aldermen. This Bill was imperatively necessary for the protection of the poor, and to provide them a remedy in cases where they were run over and wounded, and had their limbs broken by public conveyances. At the present moment there were not fewer than fifty cases of this kind in Charing-cross Hospital.
 Mr. Wilbraham  observed that it had been stated in the letter which had been so often alluded to that night, and which was
 288 289
 Mr. Randal Plunkett  said, that however embarrassing it might be to arise amid the thunders of applause which were greeting the eloquent effusion of the hon. and learned Member for Tipperary, he should not, under any circumstances, shrink from doing what he deemed a duty towards an institution, of whose principles and practice he, at least, would not profess ignorance, and by which he was determined to stand or fall. He did not arise to defend the illustrious individual who had been assailed; that would be, he believed, ably done by a gentleman who was to follow him; but he must say that, in his very humble opinion, that illustrious personage would not be well counselled if he were advised to disconnect himself from an institution, founded on the very principles which placed his family on the throne of these realms. He could not but express astonishment at the course pursued in this case, when it was evident that the hon. Member for Middlesex merely made use of the circumstance of there being Orange
 297 audi alteram partem. 298 299 300 posse comitatus posse comitatus
 Sir Charles D'Albiac  concurred most fully in every thing that had been advanced or could be advanced on the impropriety of establishing Orange Lodges in the army. Nothwithstanding the situation which he held in the army, he had not the slightest idea of the existence of Orange Lodges in it. In his opinion they had not existed in the army since 1820.
 Lord John Russell  imagined they could only state what appeared on their minutes; and he repeated, that he did not wish to convey any insinuation of the kind alluded to by the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite. With regard to another point, his Royal Highness denied in his letter that he had issued warrants or countenanced the issuing of warrants, to regiments in his Majesty's service; and he went on to say "When such a proposal was made to me I instantly declined it, saying, that it was contrary to the regulations and orders issued from the Horse Guards." Now, he must say, that his Royal Highness having once declined on these grounds to issue
 309
 Lord John Russell  wished to say, consistently with what he had said on a former night, that he had no objection to all the resolutions which described the organization of Orange lodges, and which condemned the existence of them in the army. But he objected to the 5th and 6th resolutions; and was not disposed, until further information was given upon the subject, to acquiesce in that resolution in which the name of his Royal Highness was mentioned. With regard to the fifth and sixth resolutions they must be reserved for future consideration; and with regard to the resolution affecting the conduct of the Duke of Cumberland, he had been in hopes that such an explanation might have been given as would have been satisfactory to the House; and he did not think it would have been very difficult (supposing all that had been stated on the other side of the House to be correct) to have given such an explanation; but instead of this they had nothing further from his Royal Highness than an assurance that he signed blank warrants, and that if it were proved to him that any such warrants had been directed to any regiments, he would order them to be annulled. I own (said the noble Lord) that after giving the utmost candour asked for by the hon. Member for Drogheda to this explanation, I cannot say that I do think that that is a satisfactory statement. I was in hopes, taking for granted, which I am perfectly ready to do (however circumstances may appear to lead to a contrary conclusion) that the whole of these proceedings—both the granting of the warrants, and the passing of the resolutions at Lord Kenyon's had been carried on without the knowledge of those persons who were he chief officers of the Orange Society; I
 305 306
 Lord John Russell  stated, that he did not wish to agree to the resolution, stating that his Royal Highness, in contravention of an order issued from the Horse Guards, had signed warrants as Grand Master of the Orange Lodges of Ireland, which warrants were issued for constituting Orange Lodges in the army. Now, what he wished was, that the hon. Member for Middlesex would consent to omit the latter words—namely,"which warrants were issued for constituting Orange Lodges in the army." He considered that the omission of those words would meet the wishes of the right hon. Gentleman opposite.
 Lord John Russell  moved the Order of the Day for the adjourned debate on this Motion.
 Colonel Sibthorp  looked upon this as one of the best provisions in the Bill, prohibiting, as it also did, the cabman from occupying the passengers' seat with some drunken, greasy, dirty fellow.
 Colonel Sibthorp : most certainly.
 Colonel Sibthorp  dared to say, that he was the oldest four-in-hander in the House; yet in the whole course of his practice not a single accident had been caused by him. If there had, he should, of course, have made the best recompence in his power.
 Colonel Sibthorp  wished to observe that the penalties imposed by the Bill, so far from being too high, were too slight to be efficient.
 Mr. Shaw  said, all he desired was, that if allusion was made in the resolution to the Duke of Cumberland at all, that the simple truth should be stated, which was, that his Royal Highness had signed blank warrants, and that they were afterwards issued without his knowledge. He did not think the noble Lord's Amendment would put the fact fairly or candidly; and he would move the insertion of the word "blank" before "warrants."
 Mr. Shaw  contended, that the last resolution to which the noble Lord had just adverted, referring to his Royal Highness the Duke of Cumberland, could not be passed in its present form; for while it was literally true, it was substantially untrue. The resolution affirmed "that his Royal Highness had signed warrants, as Grand Master of the Orange Lodge, which warrants had been issued for constituting Orange Lodges in the army." Now that was the truth, but it was not the whole truth, and on the contrary it implied that which was absolutely untrue, for what was the real fact?—that his Royal Highness had signed warrants, but they were blank warrants, and these warrants had been afterwards issued for constituting Orange Lodges in the army; but then that was certainly without the knowledge of the illustrious Duke. The noble Lord (John Russell) admitted that such was his own opinion, and was it possible that the noble Lord, a minister of the Crown, could, forced on by, and to gratify, the majority that were cheering behind him, consent to convey a covert insinuation, contrary to the truth
 307 308
 Mr. Finch  regretted that the hon. Gentleman did not pursue the prudent course
 267 268 "Your Lordship is acquainted with the composition of yeomanry in the county of Armagh; are there many Roman Catholics in the yeomanry in that county? I believe not. "Is there one?—If I were obliged to speak positively, I should say there was not; but it is impossible for me to say; the yeomanry is in a great measure disbanded. "Their arms remain with them, with the exception of one corps, do they not? I cannot take upon me to say what steps Government took with respect to their arms; but I believe their aims have remained with them. "Have the yeomen taken a prominent part in those Orange processions, or has it appeared from the character and description of the persons that were in those processions, that amongst them many of the yeomnry must have been?—I should think so; but not in the dress, or appearing as yeomen; but that these were men belonging to the yeomanry corps in these processions I believe there is no doubt. "Have you not understood that the yeomanry in the county of Armagh were almost all Orangemen?—I should think in certain parts of Armagh they are almost all Orangemen; but I never saw any return; I can only speak from hearsay and belief to that." 269 "There are far more Orangemen in the north than in the south of Ireland? I believe there are. "Property is considered more secure in the north than in the south, and consequently more valuable? I believe it is. "Are there more manufactures in the north?—I believe so. "The people are in a better condition?—I believe they are, but I am very little acquainted with the south. "Landlords have not been so deprived of their influence in the north as in the south?—I believe not. "Upon the whole, the north of Ireland of late years has been less disturbed than the south?—Ithink there has been less excitement, less agitation there." "Does your Lordship recollect in your own county of Tyrone, or any neighbouring county within the last thirty years, an Insurrection Act being in force?—No Insurrection Act has been in force in the county of Tyrone, or in any neighbouring county, within the last thirty years.' "You would consider the people of England better disposed than the people of the north of Ireland?—No. I would not change with them either Catholics or Protestants. "Do you consider that the people of the north of Ireland are more peaceable than the people of England?—No; but I think our population, including Protestants and Catholics, in my part of the north of Ireland, are much better conducted, and much freer from crime than the people in England, and the returns of the Assizes will show that. 270 "You would hardly say that the people in the south of Ireland are more orderly than the people of England? No, I never said that, nor thought it. "You have already stated that the people of the north of Ireland are more peaceable and well conducted than the people of England?—I think so. "And you have stated that the people in the north of Ireland are more orderly and well conducted than the people in the south of Ireland?—Yes, and that the people of the north of Ireland are more orderly and more peaceable than the people of England. "The people in the north of Ireland, which is the stronghold of Orangeism, are better conducted, it appears, than the people of England where there are no Orangemen, and the people of the south of Ireland, where there are comparatively few Orangemen?—Certainly. "You are aware, of course, that about seven-and-twenty years ago, there were very serious riots in London, when Sir Francis Burdett refused to obey the Speaker's warrant?—Yes. I heard of that; and since that frequently. "You will perhaps recollect that the Life Guards were obliged to fire on the people, and that several lives were lost?—I recollect it. "Perhaps you are not aware that 7,000 troops were marched up to London, and cannons placed in all the squares at that period?—Ithink I recollect that. "Perhaps you can recollect that at that period there was a war in Spain, and those troops might have been wanted for the Spanish campaign?—Unquestionably. "It would appear, then, that the people of London are quite as strongly tinged with party feeling, and quite as disposed to insubordination as the people in the north of Ireland?—I know nothing of their feelings; but I think they are a thousand times more insubordinate than the people of the north of Ireland. 271 272 Habeas Corpus 273 274 275 imperium in imperio. 276
 Mr. Robinson  then moved an humble address to his Majesty, praying him to lay before the House extracts from the correspondence which had passed between the Portuguese and his Majesty's Government relating to the treaty of Rio Janeiro, of February 19th, 1810.
 Mr. Robinson  wished to know, in the first place, whether his Majesty's Ministers had received any official notification from the Government of the Queen of Portugal relative to the suspension or annulment of the treaty of Rio Janeiro, dated Feb. 19th, 1810; secondly, if so, whether his Majesty's Government had received any explanation of the motive and ulterior views of the Portuguese Government with respect to the commercial treaty; and thirdly, whether the noble Lord would object to laying upon the table
 266
 Mr. Warburton  objected to this system of legislating against grievances so slight as to render it perfectly competent in the public itself to remedy them. As to the present measure, if it passed, his Majesty's subjects would not be any the more acquainted with the law on the subject from a measure, containing, as it did, not fewer than eighty long Clauses.
 Mr. Twiss  regretted the general tenour of the observations of the hon. Member for Tipperary, tending as they did, to the intimidation of the judicial authorities in Ireland. Much had been said in regard to an Illustrious Individual, and it was plain that for party purposes, hon. Gentlemen on the opposite side were resolved to endanger the whole of their professed object in relation to the Orange Lodges, rather than fail in the attack which had been made upon that Illustrious Individual. In the imputations against him no one who calmly considered the circumstances could concur. What right had the House to pursue a question, referring to the point, whether or not an Illustrious Personage had violated a military rule? But it was by no means probable that the Duke of Cumberland was aware of the existence of Orange Lodges in the army. With regard to what took place at the meetings, it did not appear that the Illustrious Duke knew of, or took any part in the arrangement respecting Orangemen in the army, and with regard to former rules, dated in 1800, was it to be supposed that he could bear them in memory up to 1828? If they applied the same tests to the case of the Duke of Cumberland as to any Chairman of an ordinary Society, credit must at once be given to the letter of his Royal Highness. He would beg to remind the House of a Motion which had been brought forward, tending to censure a noble and learned Lord, now the Lord Chancellor of Ireland, for having, as one of the Commissioners for Ecclesiastical Purposes, signed a paper recommending the dissolution of certain Ecclesiastical Unions, and for having, notwithstanding that recommendation, presented a son of his own to one of those continued Unions. He did not refer to this circumstance for the purpose
 301
 Dr. Bowring  thought that there was much justice in what had fallen from the hon. Member for Finsbury. He should support his hon. Friend if he moved an Amendment on the subject.
 Dr. Nicholl  observed, that he should not take up the time of the House by offering any further opposition to the Motion.
 Dr. Nicholl  rose amidst general cries of "Question!" We understood him to say that he would withdraw his Motion for the previous question, on the first four Resolutions, and move it only on the 5th and 6th. [ "They are withdrawn."
 Mr. Hume  said, in reply, that the hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite expressed his belief, that since the year 1820 there were no Orange Lodges in the army. But what was to be found in the evidence? There was an Orange Lodge in March
 310 Shaw:
 Mr. Hume  moved the Order of the Day for the adjourned debate on the Motion for the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the origin, nature, extent, and tendency of the Orange Institutions in Great Britain and the Colonies.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that before the debate was proceeded with, he begged to state that although he had proposed eleven Resolutions on the subject of Orange Lodges, he did not intend to press the adoption of all of them. With the permission of the House, he intended to withdraw the fifth and sixth Resolutions, and only persist in those that had reference to the constitution of Orange Lodges, or to the existence of those associations in the army.
 Mr. Potter  protested against the violent abuse which Members so indiscriminately bestowed upon the drivers of public conveyances. For his own part, the instances were very rare indeed in which he had experienced insolence on their part.
 Mr. Sheil  said, that in the Committee the functionaries of the Orange body had been in the first instance examined. The Member for Armagh, who is Deputy Grand Master and Viceroy to the Duke of Cumberland, had been upon three several days produced as a witness in favour of the Orange Institution, and as an encomiast of himself. Mr. Swan, the Deputy Grand Secretary; Mr. Stewart Blacker, the Assistant Grand Secretary; Mr. Baker, another Grand Assistant—(of these grandees there was no end); Mr. Ward, the Grand solicitor, and Mr. Mortimer O'Sullivan, a
 290 291 292 293 294 295 "Credo quia impossibile est." 296
 Sir Ronald Fergusson  said, it was evident that where Orange Lodges did exist in the army, they had been established in the most cunning manner. The hon. and gallant Member, who inspected the cavalry, was about the last person to whom any information on the subject was likely to make its way.
 Mr. Wakley  protested against it as a most unjust and absurd one, going as it did to debar the driver of a cab, under the penalty of twenty  shillings, from sitting
 Mr. Wakley,  on the contrary, thought the Clause a most tyrannical and preposterous one. It was monstrous that a man sitting from eight in the morning till a late hour of the winter night, should be forbidden to shelter himself from the cold and snow and rain in his own property.
 Mr. Wakley  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken was most egregiously mistaken both as to the practice, and as to the results of the practice, which he had described as existing in the parish of St. Pancras. It was true that the Radical party had a blue list. The opposite party finding that the popular feeling was almost all in favour of the blue list, contrived to have a blue list as well as a white list, in the hope of deluding some ignorant persons to vote for their candidates. Then the Radicals in their turn determined to have a white list as well as a blue list. Substituting their white list in the place of their blue list, they went to the poll, and by turning their artifices against the inventors of them, again defeated their opponents. The fact, however, was, that the mode of voting in St. Pancras was not entirely secret. Still it was so far secret as to neutralize the power of intimidation. Would the hon. Member consent to give the people of England the same degree of secrecy in voting for Members of Parliament? If the people could only get the Ballot they would not care what associations existed—whether they were Conservative, or were nicknamed loyal and constitutional associations.
 Mr. Wakley  said, this only shewed that the gallant Colonel must have been peculiarly fortunate in his charioteering; for there was no doubt but that a great many dreadful accidents were caused by private carriages as well as by public ones. Would the gallant Colonel have any objection to the numbering of gentlemen's carriages?
 Mr. Wakley  could not see why the worthy Alderman should object to effect the object by at once inserting a Clause in the Bill for the purpose. The object of the Bill was to preserve the public from
 257
 Mr. Wakley  wished to be informed why the drivers of gentlemen's carriages were not to be ticketed and numbered as well as the drivers of public carriages, [Alderman Wood, "oh, oh!"] The worthy Alderman might say "oh!" but the saying "oh!" did not make the distinction less partial or unjust towards the public. He had seen at late hours of the night infinitely worse conduct on the part of gentlemen's coachmen than he had ever witnessed on the part of drivers of omnibusses, hackney-coaches, or any others to whom the Bill applied. This was, in fact, what was too often the case, a legislation which only served to restrict and bear upon the poorer classes, while the rich were suffered to do as they pleased. This was an Act which purported to be for the public benefit, and to effect such an object the drivers of gentlemen's carriages should be made amenable to its provisions.
 Mr. Ewart  took the same view as the hon. Member for Finsbury, and proposed as an Amendment that the driver when driving without passengers might sit within his cab.
 Mr. Mackinnon  hoped, that as he had the honour to be the Chairman of the Association which the petitioners attacked, the House would indulge him with a hearing during the few words which he had to address to them upon this subject. He should confine himself entirely to matters f fact, and without following the hon. Member for Marylebone into the wide field of declamation into which he had so unnecessarily entered, should briefly state the reasons why
 262 263
 Mr. Ormsby Gore  said, that as he had the honour of being a member of this libelled association, he hoped that the House would bear with him for a few minutes. In the first place, this association was not properly designated in being styled a Conservative Association. Its proper title was exclusive of all party—it was styled "The Loyal and Constitutional Association of Marylebone." It contained in its ranks members of all parties, except the extreme Radical party. The members of it had assembled together to hinder indolence, or apathy, or neglect, from preventing those individuals who had a right to exercise the elective franchise from being swamped by the activity of the Radicals. He would defend this Association from accusation if he could only make out what accusation was brought against it. The first semblance of accusation was, that they had sent their clerks to the court-house to take a list of the rate-payers. Individually the Members of the association, being themselves rate-payers, had a right to do this, and it mattered little whether they took their extracts from the rate-books with their own hands or with the hands of their amanuenses. He believed the fact to be, that three of the rate-payers had sent for these extracts for themselves. The second accusation, if he must give it that name, had reference to the schedule and its different columns. That schedule was framed in that manner to enable the association to protect the electors in the proper exercise of their elective franchise. He denied that it deserved the epithets of "inquisitorial," and "oppressive," and "vexatious," which the hon. Member had applied to it. He wished the House to look at the names signed to this petition—thirteen of them formed part of the notorious forty-two who had contrived to get their names put surreptitiously on the list of voters for the county of Middlesex. Now, what degree of credit was there due to a petition which bore such signatures? The prayer of the petition, too—what was ii for? For the Ballot. Now, how had these very parties exercised this mode of secret voting in their own parish? He would inform the House in a very few words. In the parish of St. Pancras, where the vestry was elected by Ballot, the Radicals had blue lists which they published every night declaring the state of the poll, although the poll could not be known and declared by law till three days after the Ballot was terminated. So much for the secrecy of voting established
 265
 Colonel Verner  said, he could not concur in opinion with the noble Lord who had just sat down, that the only question for their discussion to-night, was the existence of Orange Lodges in regiments, and the connexion of his Royal Highness, the Duke of Cumberland with their existence. After
 280 281 282 
 
 [COPY.] 
 G. O. Belfast, June 19, 1798. 
 Parole Fortitude. Countersigned. 283 At a meeting in January, 1831, when he was in the glory of his agitation for a "Repeal of the Union," the learned Gentleman, after indulging in a long and violent harangue against "Solomon Stanley," and the other rulers of the day, proceeded to metamorphose the faction into "his beloved Orange fellow-countrymen—the most noble, generous and patriotic body of men any country ever saw;" and, continuing for a considerable time in this strain, concluded by praying, with uplifted hands, "that God and they might forgive him." He then pulled down the Orange and green banner which waived over his head, kissed the colours repeatedly and alternately—tore open his waistcoat, and pressed the Orange to his naked bosom, amidst loud and uproarious cheering.
 Sir Edmund Hayes  said, that the hon. and learned Member for Tipperary had stated, and apparently had made some sensation in the House, that the Orangemen were to a man armed. Now, making due allowance for the fertile fancy of the learned Gentleman, he admitted that to a great extent they were in possession of arms; and he wished particularly to draw the attention of the House to the circumstances under which many of them were obtained. Were they bestowed by a Tory Ministry—a Ministry sympathizing with and respecting that body? Undoubtedly not; but by that Government, many of the Members of which he now saw opposite, the head of which was Earl Grey. He remembered how in the year 1831, when the hon. and learned Member for Dublin began his Repeal agitation in good earnest, immediately after the Catholic Bill, the Marquess of Anglesey, who then administered the affairs of Ireland, became alarmed, and was apprehensive that some forcible attempt was to be made for a Repeal of the Union, judging from the feelings which ever prompted, in his own breast a generous carelessness of personal safety, supposed that the agitators might place themselves at the head of an insurrectionary movement, in order to accomplish that which they ever
 302 l. 303 304
 Sir Edward Codrington  felt bound to warn the House against suffering these secret Societies to contaminate the navy. He merely rose for the purpose of putting the House on their guard against allowing the spread of these bodies, and not with any view of answering the Hon. and gallant Gentleman; because he was not aware that the gallant Officer had urged a single point which bore out the question before the House. He was certainly most anxious to avoid entering on these Irish disputes, which the hon. and gallant Member had brought under the notice of the House. There was one point however, to which he felt compelled to allude. The hon. and gallant Officer had referred particularly to the year 1798 as that in which the loyalty of Orangemen was eminently displayed. Now, he begged to remind the hon. and gallant Member and the House, that in that very year a mutiny had broken out in the Navy from the establishment of such a society as that of the Orange Lodges, which had nearly had the effect of proving destructive to the country.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  rose for the purpose of presenting a Petition from the Vestry of the parish of Marylebone, complaining of the inquisitorial and vexatious proceedings of the Conservative Association established in that parish. He hoped that the House would bear in mind that the establishment of these Conservative Associations had been recommended by the leaders of the Conservative party as the best means of attaining a predominant influence in that House. Now, if that object could be attained by that party in the exercse of legitimate means, he should be the last man in the world to complain of it; but he was surprised that the establishment of Conservative Associations for that purpose should be recommended by those who were so vehement in their denunciations of political unions during the summer of 1832. He did not expect from that party the establishment of Conservative Associations in every part of the kingdom, and the establishment of them, too, for the more efficient prosecution of such proceedings as those of which he was then about to complain. He recollected that in 1832, the objections urged by the Conservatives of that day applied both to the institutions and to the objects of the political unions. It was deemed by them an impertinence on the
 259 260 261
 Sir Samuel Whalley  said, that the carriages to which this Bill applied were carriages let out for hire, which circumstance constituted an essential distinction between them and gentlemen's carriages.
 Lord Ebrington  said, that in any observations which he should make, he should confine himself strictly to the question before the House, namely, the existence of Orange Societies in the army, and the connexion of his Royal Highness the Duke of Cumberland with them; these being the sole matters affected by the resolutions moved by his hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex. He would not enter upon the
 277 278 279
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that a few days ago he received a notification from the Government of Portugal giving notice, under the provisions of the treaty of 1810, that the treaty would be suspended from the 10th of January, 1836. That announcement was accompanied with a notice from the Portuguese Government, stating that they were desirous to open a negotiation upon the subject of a new treaty, with the view of affording to each country reciprocal advantage. He could have no objection in producing the necessary extracts from the despatch, if the hon. Member chose to move for them.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was sorry that he could not give a distinct or decided answer to the question of the hon. Member. The subject was, in fact, one not connected with his department. He would not, however, consent to the introduction of a Bill without first knowing its provisions, and if it should appear that those provisions would go to interfere with the ordinary wages of labour, and with the employment of capital, he doubted, upon general principles, the expediency of bringing in such a Bill at the close of the, session, and leaving it loose on the country for the recess, unless the House was at once prepared to assent to its principle. When the President of the Board of Trade was in his place, the hon. Gentleman had better repeat his question. With regard to the other matter, the administration of the existing law, any evasions of it could not of course be too soon put down. That was only justice to the individuals engaged in the trade who observed the law. He was satisfied that the inspectors did all in their power to enforce the law. If eases of infraction of the law existed anywhere, let the matter be represented to the Government, and immediate steps should be taken to inquire into it, and to apply the proper remedy
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to order. Would the House submit to hear a justification of the Carlow election committee on a Motion relating to the reform intended to be made in the constitution of the Corporation of Dublin, and of other Irish Corporations? He thought that the House ought not to submit to it; but if the House should be of a different opinion, he was very ready to enter into the discussion.
 Mr. O'Connell  did not know whether he ought to defend himself against the horrible charge that the hon. Member had brought against him. That charge was, that the Corporations of Ireland ought not to be reformed, because the hon. Member and his friends had no confidence in him. The hon. Member had eulogized himself, and he wished the hon. Member joy of his eulogy. He had nothing to say against it, except that he did not believe it, as it was not in accordance with facts. He denied the assertion that he had received any information respecting the decision of the Carlow Committee from a near connexion of his own, who happened to be upon it. He had, however, reason to believe that his relation was not altogether satisfied with the decision of the Committee, which raised the elective franchise in Ireland from 10 l. l. l.
 Mr. O'Connell  did not mean to enter into the debate; but merely wished to call the attention of the House to the melancholy tale of the clergymen. One of the letters was written so far back as May last, and the right hon. Gentleman must have been aware that the distress of this clergyman need not have been so great for he might have availed himself of the benefits of the Million Act. [Mr.  Shaw:
 Mr. Scarlett  said, that if the object of the Government had been to conciliate the support of a certain party in that House, and in Ireland, they could not have pursued any course that was better calculated to attain that object than the one they had taken. They seemed alto-
 420
 Lord John Russell  said, that on being informed by the parties interested that they wished to bring up such a Clause, he certainly expressed no approbation; but on being told that his noble Friend in the other House was pledged to it, he did not offer any opposition to its introduction; although he had written to his noble Friend, the Duke of Richmond, expressing his opinion that as the Bill was of a public nature, he (Lord John Russell) did not know any reason for giving his assent to the Clause. His Grace answered him, however, that he thought it ought to be introduced; and certainly after that statement, he (Lord John Russell) would not oppose it, although he must say he considered it an improper principle, and he should not have been the person to make such a proposition.
 Lord John Russell  moved the Order of the Day for the second reading of the Municipal Corporation (Ireland) Bill.
 Colonel Perceval  said, that the hon. Member had indulged himself in inferences against the Orangemen which had no other foundation than the declarations made by Members in that House—declarations originating in party feeling and to which no credit was due. He had already expressed his condemnation of the existence of Orange Lodges in the army, but their existence in the army was not contrary to law. It was merely a breach of the military discipline prescribed at the Horse Guards, but it was not contrary to any Act of Parliament. He did not see, then, how it was possible with any show of justice or of reason to associate the
 395
 Mr. Anthony Lefroy  did not mean to enter into any discussion upon this Bill. He would only say that he was not opposed to any reform that had a tendency to make these Corporations answer the purpose for which they were instituted; but to ascertain what those purposes were the House ought to have a copy of their charters before it. He repeated, that he should not enter into this discussion—he
 400
 Mr. Anthony Lefroy  said, that he thought that those hon. Gentlemen who agreed with him in opposing the Bill for the Reform of the Irish Church, as proposed by the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, had reason to thank the hon. Member who spoke last for the bold and straightforward manner in which he expressed his desire to deprive the Established Church of all its revenues, as those who differed from him could not mistake his intentions, or be led astray by false promises. He even considered him as a useful ally on the present occasion, as, by the Motion he had made, he had put to flight the hopes held out by his Majesty's Ministers, that this measure would be considered by all their supporters either an adequate reform or a final settlement. No further than this did he wish to associate himself with the opinions or sentiments of that hon. Member, and he still more rejoiced to think that whatever a majority of the present House might decide, still the great body of the English nation would not concur in his views. He did not propose now to add any arguments to those which had already been brought forward so ably against the principle of this Bill, which unanswerable and unanswered as they were had failed to Convince. He knew any effort on his part would be vain indeed. For the same reason he would not occupy the time of the House by stating additional instances from the Report of the Commissioners,
 412 l. 413 414
 Mr. Hawes  said the great object of the Bill was to introduce something like uniformity of principle in the gaols; and the gaols under corporate jurisdiction were always of the very worst description. Unless they were brought under the operation of this act, the very principle of which was what he deemed the greatest, and almost its only value, that all gaols would be brought under public inspection, and laid regularly before Parliament, it would be a failure. As to what the hon. Gentleman had said about Bridewell having been supported by voluntary contribution,—it was supported by endowment, for public purposes, and was not to be considered in the light of an institution supported by private funds. The absurdity of having different regulations in different gaols was clearly manifest in the fact, that by that means a punishment would be given to a crime in one place totally different from that which it received, under the same sentence, in another. Therefore he (Mr. Hawes) hoped that the proposition of the hon. Member would by no means be assented to; if it were, the wish which he had for passing the Bill would be entirely at an end, and
 402
 Mr. Charles Barclay  was not going to enter into any such discussion. The object of the present Bill was to hand over the corporations of Ireland to the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, in whom he, along with other respectable members of society, could not place any confidence. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had obtained the information respecting
 399
 Mr. Charles Barclay  declared himself hostile to the provisions of this Bill, and must enter his protest against it. The measure would throw the whole of the Corporations of Ireland into the hands of the Catholics; what they would do might be conjectured by the conduct of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, who set up his own authority as superior to that of the House. He impugned the decision of a sworn Election-Committee.
 Mr. Hindley  supported the petition. He wished to know from the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether the Government would oppose his bringing in a Bill to repeal the Factory Act, and to substitute a more effective measure in its stead? If he were allowed to bring in such a Bill, he would then only ask to have it printed, and the country and the Government would come to the consideration of it next Session with a matured judgment. The present law was grossly evaded, and Mr. Ricards, one of the inspectors, who had 2,000 mills under his inspection, asserted
 396
 Mr. Tulk  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to provide for the payment by the East-India Company of compensation to Mr. Buckingham for certain losses of property in India. The measure was founded on the evidence taken before a Select Committee, and their Report upon the same presented to the House of Commons on the 4th of August, 1834.
 Mr. Tulk  did not wish the Bill to pass without ample discussion, but thought that the debate might be taken on the second reading.
 Mr. Callaghan  said, that the Bill had met with very general approval, and amongst others who sanctioned it was the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade, who was very desirous that it should be passed. The object of the measure was to relieve the steam-vessels plying to the ports of Liverpool, Dublin, Belfast, and Derry from the compulsory payment of pilotage dues. The noble Lord who presided over the Royal Commission which had been issued on the subject of pilotage, had also expressed his approbation of the Bill, and he believed the Members generally, who composed the Commission, were friendly to it.
 Mr. Shaw : The expression in the letter was, "digging drill;" and he gave the
 424 nisi prius
 Mr. Shaw  said, that much as he was opposed to the leading principle of the Bill, he would not in the then thin state of the House, which could afford no real test of its opinion, put hon. Members to the trouble of dividing; and as neither the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, (Lord Morpeth) nor any Member of his Majesty's Government, had said a word on the present stage of the measure in its justification, he did not feel it necessary to repeat, his various and strong objections to it; the more particularly, as he had recorded them on the journals, upon the bringing up of the Report last Friday. He had then moved such Amendments as he con-
 421 A laugh from hon. Members. 422 Cries of "Name!" O'Connell: 423
 Mr. Shaw  said, that as he did not mean, for the reasons he had stated the other night, to take any part in the discussion of the measure itself, but would wish, on the mere reading of the Order of the Day, by way of preliminary objection, to enter his earnest protest against, the forcing of such a Bill through the House at the present period of the Session; and without the necessary documents for discussion being yet printed. He protested first, because the noble Lord had, soon after the formation of the present ministry, given the House reason to suppose that the present measure would not be brought forward this Session; secondly, because even if the House were in possession of the necessary materials for the discussion, it would be impossible in the absence of almost all
 397 398
 Mr. Robinson  said, that he was a Member of the Commission in question, and was not aware that the Bill had been so
 426
 Mr. Robinson  seconded the Motion, and contended that the Bill ought not to have been brought forward until the Commission now sitting on the subject of pilotage had made its Report. At the same time he did not oppose the Bill because he considered it objectionable in principle, but from the circumstance he had stated.
 Mr. Robinson  denied, that those who supported the Bill were disposed to abandon the Protestant Church, still less to hand it over to the Catholics. What was there in the state of things throughout Europe which could lead them to expect a Roman Catholic predominance in this country? The influence and power of the Pope in Europe at the present day was imaginary; in Ireland, indeed, if it existed, it arose from the divisions which distracted that country, in consequence of the religion of the state being opposed to the religion of the majority of the people. There was nothing in the Bill affecting the connection between the Protestant Church and the Government of the country—that was preserved in all its integrity. No man could be more anxious than he was to oppose the establishment of the predominance of the Catholic religion in Ireland or this country.
 Mr. George F. Young  opposed the Motion, and objected to the Bill on the ground that it was a partial measure intending to apply to three or four particular ports, and that it ought not to be entertained by the House, inasmuch as a Commission had been appointed to inquire into the subject of pilotage generally, with the proceedings of which Commission this Bill would interfere. He moved that the Bill be committed that day three months.
 Mr. Warburton  defended the Bill, and could see no reason why it should be opposed because a Commission had been appointed on the subject of pilotage generally. He could not see in what way the present measure could interfere with the proceedings of the Commission, and he hoped his hon. Friend, the Member for Cork, would press his Motion.
 Mr. Twiss  said, that on a former occasion the noble Lord opposite declared, that the people of England would not support a revolution every year. The noble Lord, however, now appeared to think, that they would not object to a revolution every other year. The noble Lord himself thought, in 1833, that the principle of this measure was revolutionary but in 1835, his opinion appeared to have undergone a very considerable change. The hon. Member read several quotations from the speeches of Lord Althorp, to show that his Lordship was then opposed to a principle, which was the same as the one embodied in the Bill before the House. The hon. and learned Member then entered into a series of calculations to prove that there was no surplus of Church Temporalities in Ireland to deal with, and, consequently, that Government were labouring under a delusion, or endeavouring to delude the public mind, when they talked of a new appropriation, of such a surplus. He contended, that the preamble of the Bill was not borne out by the provisions of its subsequent Clauses. The preamble, after stating, that there were some livings in Ireland, the emoluments of which were too large, and others in which they were too small, proposed to remedy that evil; and then, after the Church Establishment had been duly provided for, to apply any surplus revenue which might remain to the purposes of education, &c. But was this preamble borne out by the Bill? No. The larger benefices were to be reduced by it, and some to be totally abolished; but other
 425
 Mr. Fielden  presented Petitions from Stockport, Oldham, and other places, praying for some measure to enforce the provisions of the Factory Bill. He would say that the Government should take care to enforce the provisions of that Act, which was of much more importance than a reduction of the duty on newspapers. The law was at present shamefully evaded.
 Mr. Hardy  said, that if it were the principle of the Minister that an Establishment was only the means of inculcating religion, (in which he entirely agreed) the Bill, so far as related to the Appropriation Clause, was in utter violation of that
 417 418 419
 Mr. John Young  said that, in stating as concisely as possible some of his objections to the third reading of the Bill, he would not attempt to add another to the unanswerable arguments by which its principle had been met; to that principle, however, he entered his most decided dissent, and while he acknowledged that in parts of the measure there was much of good, he deeply regretted it was so overloaded with evil and injustice. The situation of Ministers was peculiar and difficult—held in check by able and powerful opponents, and urged on by allies too desperate and uncompromising to admit of pause or moderation. He could not but reject the proposed withdrawal of a very large proportion from the clergy of Ireland. This would prove an evil of serious tendency. The Protestant clergy possessed the confidence and respect of all classes in the country, and as had been stated by a tourist of liberal principles, Mr. Inglis, the Roman Catholic emigrants, when they wished to effect a remittance home from any of the colonies, invariably preferred the Minister of the Established Church as the medium of transmitting it to their friends or families. Mr. Senior, in his
 404 405 406
 Mr. Ridley Colborne  said, he had presented a Petition from the Governors of Bridewell, praying to be exempted from the provisions of the Bill: and he now begged to bring up a Clause to that effect, he had flattered himself that it would not have fallen to his lot to do so: for though the noble Lord who introduced the measure in the other House had not done so, he had promised to use his influence with the noble Lord, the Home Secretary, for that purpose; therefore, notwithstanding that noble Lord's refusal to incur the unpopularity of bringing up the Clause himself, he (Mr. Colborne) trusted he should have his support. The reasons on which he grounded his request were shortly these:—In the first place, Bridewell was governed by Charter, which had existed for above 300 years; it had never asked of the House one single shilling, but was supported entirely by the funds granted them and the donations of charitable individuals: the Governors of Bridewell, therefore, asked, let it be remembered no aid in money, but only exemption from the interference of the Bill. A Committee had gone over the gaol, and had reported that there never was one more useful and accurately conducted; also strongly recommending that it should not be put under the provisions of the Bill. He was aware it would be asked why should they object to the restrictions of the Bill, if its arrangements were so good. That was a very natural question certainly, but was it fair to introduce a Bill for the better regulation of bad gaols, and to include in it one against which not the slightest blame was attached? While such an interference disgusted benevolent persons and prevented;
 401
 Mr. Borthwick  said, that the spirit of the Bill did not confine its mischief to the sphere of the Irish Church alone, but was calculated to increase and extend political and religious agitation, and to destroy eventually the Legislative Union which existed between this country and Ireland. It was a Bill which would be unintelligible but for the resolution which preceded it; but its principle and operation were capable of being traced by means of that Resolution. The supporters of this Bill said that it was calculated to pacify Ireland, and yet its provisions were of a most inconsistent and contradictory nature, and such as could, by no possibility, be looked upon as final. If it were proposed that the Protestant religion should cease to be the established religion of the land, and that Roman Catholicism should be set up in its place, he could understand that as a final measure; but a measure such as this, fluctuating according to the number of Protestants in a given parish, furnishing a clergyman where there were fifty Protestants in a parish, and removing him when the number fell anything short of that, was only to propose a source of continual agitation, as the result must necessarily prove. The noble Lord who brought forward the measure had invested himself with the mantle of prophecy, and, gazing into futurity, said that he saw many monsters, and much of misery in the vista, if this Bill should be rejected—that it would strengthen the hands of those who sought the repeal of the Legislative Union. Now he (Mr. Borthwick) saw, in the passing of this measure, much more likelihood of advancing the question of Repeal. By the tenth article of the Union the safety of the Established Church was provided for, and here were Ministers endeavouring to pass a measure by which that article was repealed, thus, of themselves, partially repealing the Legislative Union. Where was the consistency of such conduct? He hoped that he was pursuing a legitimate course of argument. The hon. and learned Gentleman, the Member for Dublin, in speaking of this Bill, said that he accepted it as an instalment of the whole amount, as 6 s. d. 408 viz. 409 quia impossibile est. 410
 Mr. Wakley  presented a petition from 5,000
 394
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  observed that it was with extreme regret that he opposed any measure emanating from his Majesty's Government, but he objected to this Bill, not on any of the grounds that had been stated by hon. Gentlemen who had gone before him. He was opposed to it because he thought that it was in its enactments too partial to the Church, and did not give the great body of the people that relief to which they were fairly entitled.—He would not then say any thing with reference to the Catholics, but he had no hesitation in declaring that no measure would be satisfactory to a large portion of the Presbyterians of the North of Ireland which did not relieve them entirely from the payment of the Ministers of the Established Church. In proof of this he could refer the House to several declarations that had been lately made on the subject by that class of persons. Before he had the honour of representing the borough of Dundalk, he had received an address from the majority of the constituency of that place, in which this principle was clearly stated. Previous to his election he had stated his concurrence in it, for he had long entertained a sincere conviction on the subject. He had given no pledge when he was elected, but he saw no reason to disavow his opinion. He could not help feeling that if the tithes were rightly apportioned, the Church would not receive above 40,000 l. 411
 Colonel Verner  said, after the lengthened discussion which had taken place upon this Bill, he should not have felt justified in troubling the House with any observation of his own, had he not this day presented thirty-four petitions against it, and concurring as he did in the prayer of those petitions, he felt he should not be discharging his duty towards those persons who entrusted them into his hands, were he to permit this Bill to be read a third
 415 416
 Sir John Hobhouse  said, it was with pain he felt himself obliged to say "no" to the Motion. He objected to the East-India Company being mulcted in a large sum of money because the hon. Member for Sheffield stated that there was a considerable sum owing to him—he objected to a proceeding like this, which, if ever acquiesced in, should be decided on after ample discussion, in a full House, and not hurried over in the present exhausted state of this Session. If the hon. Member persisted, he should certainly divide the House on the Question.
 Sir John Hobhouse  said, that this was a measure involving a demand on the East India Company for some sum from40,000 l.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said that—as philosophy was the common term of the day—nothing could be more unphilosophical than the endeavour to apply one uniform system to every institution: and even admitting the principle, his objection to including the gaol in question, would be the contract with the noble Lord in the other House. It was improper to legislate, with no complaint at all, to secure a mere theoretical conformity; and he was of opinion that in the evidence and the recommendation of the Committee last Session there was a case fully made out for the exemption claimed by his hon. Friend, to whom, therefore, on this occasion, he should give his cordial support.
 Viscount Howick  said, the hon. Baronet objected to what he called the modern system of uniformity in different institutions. But was there anything more absurd than that in one place what is called hard labour as a punishment was a mere trifle, and in another a severe hardship? Surely, if their efforts were divided to put down crime their aim should be to render the sentence of the law the same in all places; that was the principle of the present Bill, and to it the Clause proposed by the hon. Member was totally opposed. The views which he (Visct. Howick) entertained with respect to prison discipline were, he believed, nearly coincident with those of his hon. Friend, the Member for Lambeth; but the difference between them was this. The hon. Member thought a better system would be introduced by legislation, while he was of opinion that no great change would be brought about so much by the provisions of the law as by the mode of administering it. He thought it impossible that a general law could be introduced which should at once lay down all the details, extending to the whole of the country; but he thought the present Bill, by giving the power of inspection in hands of the persons responsible to the Government and to Parliament, would enable them to arrange a good system such as they wished to establish. The hon. Member (Mr. Ridley Colborne) had spoken of the good state of Bridewell; but admitting that, what injury would the Bill do to Bridewell, the only effect of it would be, that a complimentary Report would be given to the Government very laudatory to the Governors. But the Governors
 403
 Mr. Parker  said the subject was one of great importance to the numerous constituency which he represented. It was a great hardship upon a man that he should devote his time and ingenuity to some useful invention, and be afterwards, in consequence of the defects of the Patent Law, deprived of the just rewards of his labour and talents. Though there were some useful provisions in the Bill, it did not go far enough. He should like to see some provision for granting short patents, as was the case in Franee. This would operate as a protection and encouragement to manufacturers.
 Mr. Wallace  said, the Bill would do good as far as it went. Patents ought to be cheapened. The money arising from them went into the pockets of officers of the Crown, or was expended in fees, in place of being spread beneficially over the country.
 The Lord-Advocate  said, that this was a most improtant subject, and that they should not reject this Bill, though it did not do all that they might wish. As to defining patents, that was a matter that might defy the ingenuity of the most acute lawyer. With regard to the limited patents suggested by the hon. Member for Boston, such as patents for three months or for two years, for the protection of discoveries and improvements in manufactures, he agreed with him in thinking that they would be productive of great good, while the limitation of the period would prevent them, in any case, from doing any harm. A measure for that purpose would in fact do immense good, and he trusted that the hon. Member for Boston, or some other hon. Member would bring forward a measure of the kind next Session. As to lessening the expense incurred in taking out patents, though this Bill did not touch that point, he certainly agreed that it was far too great, and that all fees connected with the taking out of patents, though he was himself a person engaged in passing patents, should be reduced. Besides, what expense was incurred should be paid over for the benefit of the country. He recommended the House to pass this Bill, as it would form a foundation for more comprehensive and necessary measures next Session.
 Mr. Francis Baring  could not pledge the Government to the adoption of the recommendation of the Committee without further consideration and examination of the evidence. What was the advantage of tying the House down strictly to those recommendations at the present period of the Session, when no practical result could immediately arise from them? Government was ready to look into those recommendations with a view to the adoption, in the next Session, of a scheme founded on the Report of the Committee.
 Mr. Vernon Smith  was of opinion that the immediate adoption of the Resolutions would be the best course.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the Government could have no other object than to promote the public advantage and the convenience of the House, and in order to do this in the most effective manner they asked time for deliberation.
 Mr. Pryme  said, it was too late in the session for a more general and more comprehensive Bill than this, which, however afforded great additional protection to
 471 bona fide
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought that he could satisfy the hon. Member, in a few words, of the propriety of the Clause
 475
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that all they contended for was, that the municipal suffrage should be upon the same footing that the Parliamentary suffrage was; that it should be co-equal with it. Why should it not? In Scotland it was co-equal. In England it was even greater. In Ireland alone it was less. He could assure his Majesty's Government that the Irish Members had thought much of this distinction, and it had given them great dissatisfaction. The very words of the Amendment proposed by his hon. Friend were taken out of the Reform Bill, and why there should be a line of distinction drawn he could not make out. It might be all very well to make the difference, if the class proposed as the new constituency did not pay the municipal taxes. The fact was, they paid in the proportion of three to one what the inhabitants of the towns paid. They paid the paving and lighting, and other ordinary imposts of the town. He hoped the opposition to the Amendment would be withdrawn.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought, that this Bill would be of advantage to Ireland. During the discussions on the Coercion Bill, he had suggested the propriety of trying such a Bill as the present, as the best means of checking disturbances in the outset. He therefore could not vote with his hon. Friend, the Member for Dundalk, on this occasion. He should support the Motion, that the Bill be committed.
 Mr. William  Smith O'Brien moved a Clause limiting the duration of the Bill to two years.
 Major Beauclerk  said, they ought to give to useful inventors all the protection in their power, and at the least expense. He hoped the hon. Member (Mr. Mackinnon) would not persevere in opposing a second reading, but contribute his aid to improve the Bill as much as he could.
 Mr. Callaghan  moved an Amendment, to the effect, "That in cities, which were cities of counties, the right of franchise for Municipal Officers should be upon the same footing as the right of franchise for Members of Parliament." The hon. Member observed, that the class of voters that would be created by his Amendment were most unjustly excluded by the present Bill. He knew them to be a most independent and incorruptible class; and he knew, moreover, that they paid a larger proportion of the municipal taxes than the inhabitants of the towns, in the suburbs of which for the most part they resided. They were in every respect as much entitled to vote for Municipal Officers as for Members of Parliament; and by the Reform Bill a numerous class entitled to vote, the latter were denied by this Bill the right of electing their own Officers.
 Dr. Bowring  would not oppose the second reading, though he was desirous that the Bill should have gone much further. The thing most wanted was a tribunal, before which questions of right might be decided speedily, and without much expense. In France and other parts of Europe there were tribunals of this kind, composed one half of masters, the other half of workmen, and, so far as he could learn, they operated beneficially. There were many inventions of such a nature as required but a limited protection of six months, a year, or two, and for this many ingenious workmen were robbed of the benefit of their inventions. What was most wanted was a cheap protection to inventors.
 Mr. Wilks  concurred in the observation of the hon. Member, that patents for short periods would be of great use. This point was under the consideration of the Committee on arts and manufactures. The present Patent Law was a great bar to their manufacturers, and disabled them in many cases from rivalling the French. Some better system of protection was necessary to encourage men of ingenuity. He trusted the subject would be again taken up early next Session.
 Mr. Hume  called the attention of the House to the Report of the Committee on Printed Papers, in pursuance of which Report he, as Chairman of the Committee, proposed to move certain Resolutions, with a view to carry the scheme upon which they had agreed into effect. It was proposed that the statutes should be printed of one uniform
 473
 Mr. Hume  was ready to modify his first Resolution, in order to meet the views of the Government; trusting that, if he did so, there would be no objection to agree to those which he should afterwards propose. He would substitute for the Resolution originally proposed, the following:—"That it is the opinion of the House that the Resolutions of May 7, 1801, with respect to printed papers, be rescinded, and that a new 'scheme of distribution, founded on the recommendations of the Committee, be adopted.
 Mr. Sergeant Perrin  opposed the Amendment, the effect of which, he said,
 476 l. l.
 Mr. Potter  said, he did not see any authority in the Act by which interest was payable on the amount of the grant from August, 1834. It did not appear to him that the public ought to be saddled with such an addition as this. It was well known that the planters would be enormous gainers by the grant; in most instances, though compensation was granted, the slaves would work for wages. Under these circumstances he gave notice that he should move to leave out the sixth Clause.
 Mr. Potter  thought they might make this measure comprehensive in Committee as they had some weeks yet before them to sit.
 Mr. Lennard  was greatly disappointed by the Bill under discussion, but he would not oppose the second reading. It was true that the Bill would do some good, and, therefore, he thought it ought not to be opposed; but it fell very far short of what he believed to have been the hopes and expectations of the public. As a measure of Reform the Bill was one of the most scanty he had ever seen; and he was the more disappointed at its being so, because a Bill introduced two or three years ago by Mr. Godson, although much more extensive and useful than the present Bill, had been thrown out in the House of Lords on the ground of its being better to wait till a more comprehensive measure, which was then promised, could be brought forward. Most of the evils of the present system were wholly overlooked by the Bill now before the House. One
 469
 Mr. Mackinnon  could not agree with his hon. Friend (Mr. Tooke), the Member for Truro, in thinking the present Bill was in any way desirable. The Law of Patents was most obnoxious as it at present stood, and ought to be abrogated entirely, and remodelled on a new system. The chief objection which he entertained to the law as it now stood was the expense incurred by those gifted individuals who were obliged to apply for a patent to secure to themselves the fruits of their labours. Formerly the Kings of England had the power of granting monopolies for almost every article required by the people. The gross abuse of this privilege led to a correction
 467 468
 Mr. Mackinnon  said, his object was to do away with the whole Patent Law as it now stood, with a view to a new and general law. Partial Amendments, such as those in the present Bill would not satisfy the object he had in view. As the House, however, seemed favourable to the second reading he would not oppose it, in the hope that a far more extensive measure would be introduced next Session. He must say, that he had looked for something more upon this subject from Lord Brougham than was effected in this Bill.
 Mr. William Smith O'Brien  did not approve of this Bill, though he should not divide the House upon it. He doubted the necessity for it. He should propose in the Committee a Clause limiting its duration to two years instead of five.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  felt compelled
 477 History of the English Poor Laws 478
 Mr. Tooke  moved that the words "printed with smaller type" be omitted from the Resolution.
 Mr. Tooke  moved the second reading of the Letters Patent Bill. He thought the only objection that could be made to the Bill would be on the ground of its scantiness. He was certainly aware that a great deal more was required to complete the Law of Patents. It was a subject upon which two Committees had already sat, but it was so embarrassed with technical difficulties, that no measure had been brought forward on it. The fact was, that there existed at present no Law of Patents, and this Bill might form a nucleus for legislation on the subject to be constructed. The Bill was essential as far as it went for the protection of patentees. That great evils existed at present, and that too great expense encumbered the taking out of Patents, which all required remedy, he was aware; but this Bill would afford a good foundation for legislation hereafter.
 Sir Robert Inglis  was ready to leave the matter in the hands of the Government, which would, no doubt, exercise a sound discretion on the subject.
 Viscount Morpeth  hoped that the hon. Member would not consider that he treated him discourteously, if he did not follow him into the arguments which he had advanced in favour of introducing Poor-laws into Ireland. The House would, he hoped, go at once into a Committee on the Bill.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that the object of the Bill was to establish a good municipal constituency. The Amendment of the hon. Member would let in the inhabitants of mud cabins—not that he meant to say anything against the tenants of mud cabins, they were no doubt very respectable, good, and loyal people in their way, but he would put it to the hon. Member, whether this Amendment would not have the effect of defeating the object proposed by the Government—namely, to provide a respectable municipal constituency.
 Viscount Morpeth  moved, that the House resolve itself into a Committee on this Bill.
 Colonel Sibthorpe  did not mean to impeach the respectability of the petitioners but he felt confident the petition did not express the sentiments of the inhabitants of Lincoln generally, or of the most respectable class of them. He presented some time back a petition from Lincoln, most respectably and numerously signed, of an opposite tendency. The petitioners alluded to what was passing in another place. He gloried in the upright and decided manner in which that House exercised their privileges as an independent branch of the Legislature. He trusted their names would go down to posterity.
 Mr. Goulburn  availed himself of a report being presented of the minutes of evidence taken before the Committee to inquire into bribery at Yarmouth to complain of the appointment of Mr. Stewart Marjoribanks in the place of Mr. Wilbraham on the Committee appointed to inquire into the allegations of bribery made against the freemen of the City of York. Mr. Wilbraham had sat on that Committee, and had heard evidence for nine days. On the tenth day Mr. Stewart Marjoribanks had appeared in his stead. That was, as it seemed to him a departure from the rules and orders of the House, which required some explanation from the noble Lord.
 Mr. Goulburn  thought that the decision of the Yarmouth Election Committee fully justified the confidence which the noble Lord had placed in its members. That Committee and the York Committee were, as he understood, to decide like ordinary Committees, and not like judicial tribunals. He thought that Members who had not heard the witnesses examined ought not to give an opinion upon their evidence. The York Committee had been engaged ten days in taking evidence; and he thought that it was not right that a Member recently added to that Committee should give an opinion upon the evidence which that Committee had collected, but which he himself had not heard.
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  put it to the hon. Member for Middlesex, whether it was fair to pursue this inquiry further at this period of the Session? He admitted that the hon. Member for Middlesex had come to his hon. Friend, the Member for Cardiff, and himself, and asked them whether they could give him the names of any Friends who were willing to act on the Orange Committee. We said that we could not find any Members on our side of the House who would remain in town at this season of the year to attend that Committee. After an attendance of six months, during a very fatiguing Session, they were satisfied in excusing themselves from attendance on such a Committee. There is not one Member on this side of the House who can attend: is it, then, fair to continue the investigations of this Committee?
 An hon. Member. —As a Member of the Committee upon the Orange Lodges, I beg leave to ask the hon. and gallant Member for Sligo, whether he means to say that there has been anything unfair in the proceedings of that Committee?
 Captain Gordon. —I must decline the honour.
 Sir John Yarde Buller. —I hope the House will let me be excused. I attended the Committee on Orange Lodges on its first formation in March last. I continued to attend till I was appointed a member of the Committee on the Great Yarmouth election petition; and after having been a party to two such laborious investigations, I hope the House will have me excused.
 Captain Jones  said, the House would recollect the case of some Roman Catholics, convicted at the Derry Assizes, whose sentence had been remitted by the Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland on the ground that a petition had been presented in their favour signed by the jury who tried them, and also by the Mayor of Derry. Their case had been before brought under the notice of the House, and he would beg to ask the noble Secretary for Ireland, whether he was aware that the petition, alleged to have been signed by the jury, was not signed by them? He would also ask whether the noble Lord had received any intimation from Ireland that the jurors had not signed that petition, and that the names subscribed to it were forgeries? If the noble Lord were aware that the signatures to that petition were forgeries, then he had to ask the noble Lord whether he intended to institute an inquiry
 511
 Sir Robert Ferguson  said, that the petition was signed in favour of only one of the parties. Some of the persons were sentenced to a greater punishment than the others. It was stated to him by some of the jury that they thought there were circumstances in Maclachlan's case which particularly entitled him to the favourable consideration of the Lord-Lieutenant. He had not seen the report in  The Evening Mail,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose and spoke as follows:—I shall endeavour to discharge the duty which has devolved upon me, that of stating to the House the present condition of the finances of the country. I shall perform my task as clearly and distinctly, and at the same time with as much frankness and sincerity as I can. I am aware, however, of the great difficulty of the undertaking, performing it as I now do for the first time, and I have need, therefore, to the utmost extent, of the indulgence of the House: I shall have nothing to offer but a dry detail of figures, which cannot possibly be attractive, except from the important consequences which attach to them. I trust, therefore, that hon. Members, while listening to the accounts I am about to give, will rather consider those consequences than the facts, and extend to the subject that indulgence which even personally I should venture to ask. My difficulties are undoubtedly increased by considering that I am, unfortunately I may say, succeeding, in the exposition of the financial state of the kingdom, one whose personal and public character gave him peculiar claims upon men of all parties, and who merited the approbation of all. I cannot help recollecting that the last financial statement was made by Lord Althorp, in whose sincerity and frankness the whole House was ready to place entire and perfect confidence. I allude to Lord Althorp, not because he needs, or that it is becoming in me to pronounce, an eulogium upon his character and services, but for the purpose of making the House aware of the disadvan-
 515 l. l. 516 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 517 l. l. l. l., l. l., l., l., l., l., l., l., l., l. 518 l., l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. 519 l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., 520 l. l. l., l. 521 l., l. l. l. l. l. l. 522 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. 
 
 Army 6,189,000 l. 
 Navy 4,245,000 l. 
 Ordnance 1,296,000 l. 
 Miscellaneous 2,405,000 l. 
 Total Supply 14,135,000 l. 523 l. 
 
 1833 284,460,000 lbs. 
 1834 297,047,000. 
 1835 320,210,000. 524 
 
 Galls. 
 1833 1,131,000 
 1834 1,487,000 
 1835 2,077,000 Goulburn: 
 
 1833 23,298,000 lbs. 
 1834 22,308,000 
 1835 23,143,000 
 
 Sugar retained for Home Consumption. 
 1833 3,687,000 cwt. 
 1834 3,743,000 
 1835 3,746,000 Tea. 525 
 
 Consumption of Tea. 
 1824 23,000,000 lbs. 
 1825 24,000,000 
 1826, 1827, 1828 26,000,000 
 1829 29,000,000 
 1830, 1831 30,000,000 
 1832, 1833 31,000,000 
 1834 33,000,000 
 1835 35,580,000 526 bonâ fide 527 Goulburn: 
 
 Tobacco. 
 1833 20,362,000 lbs. 
 1834 20,990,000 
 1835 21,483,000 528 l., l., l. l. l. l. l., l. s. l. l. s. d. s. d. 529 s. d., l. s. d. 
 
 Increase per cent. 
 Auctions 12 
 Bricks 11 
 Glass 14 
 Hops 21 
 Licenses 4 
 Malt 3 
 Paper, 1st and 2nd class 7 
 …. Millboard 7 
 …. Stained 17 
 Soap 15 
 Spirits 7 
 Tea 18 
 Vinegar 13 530 l. l. l. l. 531 l. l. l, l. 532 maximum l. 
 
 1823 4,955,289 l. 
 1827 4,971,910 
 1831 4,907,430 
 1832 4,811,327 
 1833 4,673,247 533 
 
 Pensions paid on account of Army Pay-office. 
 Average of 4 years ending 1826, 1,485,776 l. 
 1830, 1,448,604 
 1834, 1,328,857 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 534 l. 
 
 Summary of Depositors, &c, in Savings' Banks in England, Wales, and Ireland, on Nov. 
 Depositors Increase or Decrease since Nov. 1833. Amount of Investments. 
 61,293 under £20 each.. 16,718 inc. £1,849,161 
 145,827 — 50 —.. 11,859 inc. 4,467,885 
 60,297 — 100 —.. 3,882 inc. 4,129,245 
 20,109 — 150 —.. 803 inc. 2,413,829 
 10,422 — 200 —.. 870 inc.. 1,764,909 
 3,215 above 200 —.. 160 dec. 805,785 
 501,163 33,972 inc. £15,430,814 
 Increase in the number of Depositors during the last year of 33,972, and in the sum deposited of £956,861. l., 535 l. 536 "1. Abingdon Union commenced 1st of January, 1835. The expenditure during the three months ending April, 1834, was 1,230 l. l., "2. Farringdon Union commenced the 7th
 537 "3. Newhaven Union commenced 7th February, 1835. This morning our Assistant Commissioner writes as follows:—'It gratifies me to be enabled to inform your Board, that the Guardians of the Newhaven Union, by representing to the employers of labourers in agriculture, the blind policy of contributing unprofitably towards the Poor-rates those sums which would be spent profitably as wages, have induced them to employ all the idle hands, and there is not at this moment one able-bodied man receiving relief from the Poor-rates throughout the Union. "Bradford Union commenced the 28th March, 1835. The guardians began by a close examination of the list of 1,200 paupers, and detected a great many impositions. The Vice-Chairman of the Board considers that the present actual saving in consequence of this examination, and of adopting the system of partial relief in kind, is not less than 2,000 l. "Alton Union commenced the 3rd April, 1835. The accompanying document (B) will show the saving in several parishes of that Union to be more than forty per cent; and the fact that wages have advanced in two of those parishes, in consequence of that saving, is uncommonly satisfactory. "South Stoneham Union commenced the 27th March. Here I find that the weekly relief is reduced one-half. With regard to litigation, the Board have as yet no official information before them on the subject; but it is notorious that it is enormously reduced, so much so as to be a source of considerable inconvenience to barristers attending Sessions. I venture to say that I have no doubt of the poor expenditure being reduced nearly 50 per cent. in all those districts which come under our regulations comprehending, eventually, the whole of England and Wales. At the end of the period of five years and a session, for which our Commission is appointed, the expenditure of the poor, instead of being six millions per annum, and upwards, will only be three millions per annum, and upwards. It is more difficult to give an opinion respecting the rate at which this reduction will take place, but I shall be much disappointed if the year ending March, 1838, does not show a diminution of 1,500,000 l., 538 l. 
 
 The number of persons declared bankrupts in the London Gazette was for the years following, viz. 
 1830 1,549 
 1831 1,543 
 1832 1,396 
 1833 1,044 
 1834 1,099 
 1835, to 1st August 674 The number of persons who declared themselves insolvent, was for the like period, viz. 539 
 
 1830 157 
 1831 199 
 1832 164 
 1833 124 
 1834 155 
 1835, to 1st August 86 
 
 Number of persons discharged as insolvent debtors. 
 1832 4,644 
 1833 4,583 
 1834 4,275 540 541 l. 542 l., l. l. l. l. l. l. 543 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 544
 Mr. Goulburn  had heard the statement of the right hon. Gentleman with the closest attention, and was happy to admit that the result was quite satisfactory. For his own part he had never for a moment entertained a doubt concerning the resources of the country, but, on the contrary, on every occasion that he had the honour to address the House on that subject he always spoke in the highest tone as to the exertions which she could make. With regard to the surplus which the right hon. Gentleman opposite retained, he would not enter into the question whether or not it were wise to depart from the usual system hitherto adopted by men of admitted talent. The right hon. Gentleman had certainly not put out of view the necessity of retaining some surplus, but it was less than what he should have considered advisable to retain. With regard to the allusion which the hon. Gentleman had made as to loans contracted by former Governments as contrasted with the late loan, and his apparent blame of those Administrations for not contracting their loans on terminable annuities. It should be remembered that those loans were contracted in periods of difficulty, and during a heavy and protracted war. Indeed, in another part of his speech the rt. hon. Gentleman had furnished the best answer when he described the difficulty of contracting the late loan in the present period of peace and prosperity, when affairs looked so promising and capital
 545
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that the taxes to which the hon. Member for Bath had alluded did not form any part of his financial statement, and therefore the hon. and learned Gentleman need not be surprised at his having omitted any mention of them. There was at present on the Orders a notice of motion to bring the subject of the tax on newspapers before the House, and he could only say that when that Question was brought forward he should be quite ready to discuss it, and if any satisfactory arrangement could be made, he for one would not throw any impediment in the way. The House would recollect, however, that when a proposal was made to reduce the duty on newspapers, it was declared, that unless the whole tax was taken off, any partial reduction would be worse than nothing. In short, it was said, that the tax not only upon newspapers, but upon paper and advertisements, must be immediately removed, as nothing short of that concession would give satisfaction to the advocates of cheap knowledge. Now he believed that these taxes put together would amount to about 1,353,000 l., l., 558
 Mr. Cresset Pelham  was inclined to give every credit to the ingenuity of the town from which this petition came, especially as it appeared that the inhabitants knew how to affix 10,000 names to a petition in two hours. He thought that there was too
 504
 Lord John Russell  said, Mr. Wilbraham wished to be released from attendance on
 505
 Lord John Russell  hoped, after the attack which the hon. Gentleman had made upon him, that the House would indulge him with a few words in reply. The hon. Member had argued, that, in consequence of the partiality which he had displayed in the appointment of these Committees, it would be much better that in future they should be appointed by ballot. Whether it would be better that they should be so appointed, was a point into which he would not enter at that moment. This, however, he would say, that such a mode of appointment would be much more agreeable to his feelings. His idea originally was, that these Committees should be so chosen; but he had heard objections urged against that mode of appointment, not by any friends or partizans of his own, but by a right hon. Gentleman not then in his place, the right hon. Member for Tamworth. The right hon. Baronet had requested him to name a limited number of Members upon the Committee, instead of appointing them by ballot, by which it might happen that all the Members of one Committee might entertain one set of political opinions, and all the Members of another Committee entertain others. He had complied, and not without reluctance, with that request, and had consented to name the Members of three Committees. 506 G. F. Young
 Lord John Russell  said, that in appointing the Committee he had stated that he wished to assimilate its proceedings as nearly as possible to those of an Election Committee. He had therefore recommended, that if any member should be absent for two consecutive days, his absence should be reported to the House, and the House should deal with him as it deemed fit. This had been done in the case of Mr. Wilbraham, and upon that statement being made, Mr. Wilbraham had been relieved from attendance, and Mr. Stewart Marjoribanks had been appointed in his place.
 Major Beauclerk  admitted the amount of relief afforded by the right hon. Gentleman was satisfactory to the House, but would not answer the expectations of the country. The amount of relief which had been proposed was certainly all that could be fairly demanded or expected by those who called for the reduction of taxation, and were yet unwilling to reduce the establishments of the country. He was satisfied, that happiness or tranquility would never be restored until the large establishments of the country were reduced, and our expenditure diminished to a standard commensurate with reason and common sense. He regretted exceedingly that no efforts were made to reduce the taxes on knowledge. He could state, from what he had himself lately witnessed in the
 554 l. l. l.
 Major Beauclerk  suggested that the hon. Member had better withdraw the Bill. He reminded the hon. Member that he had given him notice, that if he moved that this Bill be read a second time, he should move that it be read a second time this day six months.
 Major Fancourt. —I don't wish to have that honour.
 Colonel Perceval. —The Orange Grand Juries are upon their oaths, and are sworn to act honestly, indifferently, and impartially. I defy the hon. and learned Member for Bath, and, indeed, any other Member of the House, to point out a case where Orange Grand Juries have not faithfully discharged their duties. Within the last few months, in my own county, an Orange Jury has found an Orangeman guilty, and the man suffered in consequence. The Orange Lodges are not associations which are likely to undermine the respect which is due to truth.
 Colonel Perceval. —I will answer that question frankly and honestly. I think
 509
 Colonel Perceval  said, that, before this conversation dropped, he begged to state, that not one Member on his side of the House had been appointed on the Committee to inquire into the nature, extent, and character of Orange Lodges in Ireland.
 Colonel Perceval  gave the hon. Member credit for wishing to act justly and impartially in this investigation; but could he defend the original formation of the Committee on Orange Lodges? There were sixteen Members on it of one way of thinking, and only seven of the other. He admitted that the hon. Member for Kilkenny had come over to his side of the House, and had asked him and his Friends to meet him for the purpose of forming a fair Committee. Other counsels, however, subsequently prevailed. He must say, that interested as he was on the point as an Orangeman, he had never heard before of the communication made by the hon. Member for Middlesex to his hon. Friend, the Member for Buckingham.
 Mr. Charles Buller  could not join in the congratulations that had been offered to the Chancellor of the Exchequer upon his budget, nor did he think that the country would in any way join in them. It would not be found that the country would be satisfied with that statement, in which no reason was given why their demands were not satisfied. It certainly would not satisfy the agricultural interests, nor was it very easy to satisfy them. It certainly would not satisfy that large portion of the community, which had called for a reduction of the tax upon newspapers; they had been led to expect from the Government that they would consult the feelings of the lower orders of the people, by the reduction of the tax upon newspapers—[ A laugh 547
 Colonel Sibthorp  could not congratulate the Chancellor of the Exchequer upon an increase in the revenue arising from the consumption of spirits. He thought that the statement of the right hon. Gentleman would prove unsatisfactory, particularly to the agricultural interest. The right hon. Gentleman ought to relieve that class which was most suffering from distress, regardless of the claims of others. He believed, however, that if an Angel came down from Heaven, and sat in the place of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he would not be able to please all parties.
 Mr. Divett  said, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had a very small sum to deal with, and therefore it was hardly fair to expect any considerable reduction of taxation from him. He was very glad the right hon. Gentleman had paid attention to the subject of spirit licences, and had consented partially to reduce the burdens which so onerously, and, he thought, unfairly, pressed upon them. With respect to newspaper stamps, to which the hon. and learned Member who last spoke had alluded, he agreed in a great measure with the views of that hon. and learned Member, and he believed that if the Chancellor of the Exchequer had tried the experiment of reducing the stamps, say a penny below what they were at present, he would not have found any inconvenience from it.
 Mr. Robinson  had asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether the exports which he had spoken of were taken from the account of official or declared value. He had been answered the former. Now the official value merely went to show the increased quantity of exports which had been made from this country, without proving that any corresponding increase in imports had taken place. With respect to the legacy and probate duties, the smallest amount of personal property was taxed, whilst the largest amount of real property passed to the inheritor without being subjected to the payment of a shilling. He thought, that instead of the reduction of 22,000 l. l. 555
 Mr. Sinclair  justified the allusion which he had made to the other House of Parliament, on the ground that it was made in reply to imputations cast upon their Lordships from the other side of the House. He did not consider an attempt to swamp the present House of Lords by a new creation of Peers as a constitutional exercise of the powers intrusted by the Crown to the Ministers.
 Mr. Sinclair  said, there were parts of this petition which seemed to deny the power of the other House to re-model the
 502
 Mr. George F. Young  said, that as a Member of the York Committee, he could not refrain from expressing the surprise which he in common with every other hon. Member of the Committee felt on finding a new Member added to it, after it had been nine days examining evidence. The Members of that Committee had considered themselves to be acting judicially, and had therefore attended constantly day by day, to hear all the evidence. He had heard with surprise and regret of the addition of a new name to the Committee, as he considered such an addition not to be in accordance with the principles of justice. He made this remark impartially, and without intending any individual application of it, for he had so much respect for the individual added to it, that there was no man with whom he was more happy and proud to act on all occasions.
 Mr. George F. Young  hoped that he might be permitted to say a few words in his own defence, after the very pointed allusion, or he should rather say attack,
 507
 Mr. George F. Young  said, that it was impossible for him to intimate any such objection to the noble Lord, for it was not till yesterday that he knew of the appointment of Mr. Stewart Marjoribanks. As he was not a party man, but the pivot member of the Committee, he had been desired to mention it to the House.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that he could not take offence at anything which had fallen from the hon. and gallant Member for Sligo. He admitted that party considerations often swayed the mind and made men fall almost unknowingly into mistakes. With reference to the Committee on Orange Lodges, of which he had the honour to be a member, so long as the House continued its existence, so long should he be ready to serve upon it. No fear of obloquy, no dread of misrepresentation of his motives, would prevent him from doing his duty as a member of that Committee. He regretted exceedingly that hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House had not attended the investigations of that Committee. He did not mean to impute any blame to those hon. Members who thought that the existence of Orange Lodges was advantageous to the country. On the contrary, he should feel much obliged to them if they would attend to assist him in ascertaining the truth respecting the objects of such
 510
 Mr. Handley  said, that he did not blame the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer for not having extended a large share of relief to the agricultural interest, for on the two questions which immediately affected that interest the House had decided against it—he alluded to the Motions which had been made for a relaxation of the currency, and the Repeal of the Malt-tax. It had been said, that a day of reckoning would come, when the agricultural interest would be obliged to relinquish what was alleged to be an unjust advantage. If that day should ever arrive, it was the public creditor, and not the agriculturist, who would suffer most. If the hon. Member for Middlesex thought to gain popularity by raising what he had thought to be the exploded cry of "cheap bread," he would only remind him that cheap corn had not at present (as far at least as the metropolis was concerned) the effect of producing cheap bread. The miller and the baker paid to the farmer only the sum of 27 s. s.
 Mr. Warburton. —The object of this Committee is to inquire, and not to adjudicate. The evidence collected by the Committee must be laid before the House, and the House would then adjudicate upon it.
 Mr. Warburton  seconded the Amendment. One of the principal objects of this Bill was to prevent beer from being drunk upon the premises. It was besides a direct interference with the rights of the poor, and it would be well if those persons, both in this and the other House of Parliament, who were so clamorous for the rights of the poor when they were in no danger, would now come forward to protect them
 559
 The Speaker  said, the hon. Member was mistaken in supposing that the hon. Member for Wolverhampton had been guilty of any irregularity. The hon. Member for Wolverhampton had expressed his regret that those who had signed this petition had refused to send it to the House of Lords. That was no irregular interference with the privileges of their Lordships.
 The Speaker  said, the hon. Member must be aware that he was irregular in making those allusions.
 Mr. Roebuck  wished to know whether the hon. and gallant officer would apply the principle which he had just laid down to the Orange Grand Juries in Ireland?
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that while the Government kept up the present expensive establishment, and refused to cut down expenses, it was impossible to expect relief for the people. There was an interest in the country which overwhelmed all other interests: gentlemen called themselves the representatives of the "landed interest," i. e. in other words, they represented themselves—their own interest in their own pockets—and they were complaining that the Government would not put into their pockets the money that belonged to others. What did they want? They said, "You must do something for us—because we have continued so long in peace." Was there anything so monstrous in the world! They complained of peace! The landed interests had prospered during the war, the gentlemen of landed property lived high; and made provision for their younger sons—the peace came; and with that came low prices; and he liked low prices they were beneficial to the country, he hated high prices. But then the landed gentlemen could not provide for their younger children—they would never cut down their expenses—they always lived above their income—and now they came and complained that their interests were not taken care of—why the whole community were taxed for their "interest," they had the benefit, (he wished them joy of it) of the monopoly in corn—and while this House was nothing but their organ and representative? they wanted it to tax the community further for the benefit of the landed interest. What in God's name was this "landed interest?" Why, let the House remember, that the "landed interest" did not mean the farmer—it did not mean the agricultural labourers—why it was acknowledged that they were better off than ever. Corn was lower in Liverpool than in New York, it meant the landlords only, that ought to gratify every man; but they made them believe their interest was diminishing: why was that? It was because of the Corn-laws. They could not maintain an interest of that description against the feeling of the people of England. If to-morrow they were to have high prices—if corn was to be scarce—they would find that the people of England would no longer stand their Corn-laws. So let them prepare their incomes for reduction, or prepare their whole proceeding, for the coming storm. The mo-
 556 Laughter. 557
 Mr. Wilks  presented a Petition, agreed to at a numerous and respectable meeting of the inhabitants of the City of Lincoln. The petitioners expressed their gratitude to that House for passing the Municipal Reform Bill. They felt, however, the most serious alarm at some intimation s which reached them that the Bill might possibly be unsuccessful in another place. They prayed, therefore, that the House, as constitutional guardians of the liberties of the people, would take the strongest steps of which the Constitution allowed to ensure the passing of the measure in all its integrity. He trusted the Members of that House would sympathise with the feelings thus strongly expressed by the petitioners; and, if it should become necessary, that means would be taken to ascertain what were the opinions of the people upon the measure, no matter by whom those opinions might be contravened.
 Mr. Hume. —Then I take this opportunity of moving that Colonel Perceval be appointed a member of that Committee.
 Mr. Hume  moved that a message be sent to the Lords, requesting that they will allow the attendance of the Duke of Gordon and of Lord Kenyon—the first the Grand Master of the Orange Lodges in Scotland, and the latter the Grand Master of those in England— before the Committee now appointed to inquire into the existence of Orange Lodges in England and Scotland. Yesterday a noble Lord attended before the Committee, and he now begged to state, in reply to an insinuation which had been thrown out on the other side of the House, that he had then, in the hearing of the hon. Members for Cardiff and Cavan, asked the hon. Member for Buckingham, both in public and in private, whether he could give him the names of any hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House who were
 508
 Mr. Hume  was anxious to gay a few words upon the remarks made by the hon. Baronet, because he considered the observations opposed to sound measures, and contrary to the doctrine every Chancellor of the Exchequer ought to adopt. According to the argument of the hon. Baronet, the object of Government should be to keep up a large expense occasioned by the collection of revenue, and diminish taxation upon a small or what was termed a moderate scale. This, in his opinion, was deceiving the public. He would rather have a tax of 300,000 l. l. 549 550 l., l. 551 552
 Mr. Hume. —I now beg leave to move that Captain Gordon, the Member for Aberdeen, be appointed a member of the Orange Committee.
 Mr. Hume. —I move then that Sir John Yarde Buller be appointed a member of it.
 Mr. Hume. —Well, then, I move that Major Fancourt be appointed a member of this Commitee.
 Mr. Hume  would mention one objection. This tampering with the sale for beer produced a perpetual agitation and excitement in the beer trade, which ought to be avoided. He moved that the Bill be read a second time this day three months.
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  said, that the noble Lord had not acted with strict impartiality in selecting these Committees, and that these Committees ought to have been appointed by ballot.
 Colonel Rushbrooke  was exceedingly pleased to hear that the reduction of the duty on spirits in Ireland had completely answered the expectations of those by whom it had been made. The hon. Gentleman was anxious that some reduction should be
 553
 Mr. Hawkes  could not but congratulate the country upon the prosperous state in which it had been described to be by the right hon. Gentleman. With one portion of that statement he felt particularly pleased. It was the promised remission in the glass duties. The glass trade was one that had been particularly injured by smuggling; and while a profitable branch of trade had been destroyed—the morals of the people had been deteriorated. The consequence of the high duty had been that other countries were now rivalling England in the manufacture of glass. He was certain that for the amount of glass upon which 120,000 l. l. 546
 Mr. Thornely  said, that he had been requested by his fellow-townsmen to support the prayer of this petition, for no other reason, as he supposed, than that they had observed that he was present in his place on the first day of the Session, that he had not been absent from it since, and that he had given his vote regularly in every division. It was a remarkable fact that the respectable meeting of 10,000 persons from which this petition came had determined that they would not address
 503
 Mr. Blamire  observed, that there was one point which he was exceedingly desirous to impress on the Chancellor of the Exchequer. It would grant relief to one class of agriculturists, if some alteration were made in the regulations of the Excise with respect to malt, by the continuance of which an unfair advantage was allowed to those who grew barley on rich soils, to the prejudice of those by whom an inferior description only of barley could be cultivated. This alteration might be made with perfect safety to the revenue by a Treasury minute.
 Mr. Ewart  said, he was only answering what had been said on the other side. He would maintain that it was the bounden duty of that House to preserve the Bill in all its integrity.
 Mr. Ewart  presented a petition in favour of the Municipal Corporation Reform Bill, which had been agreed to at a public meeting held in Liverpool, and to which 12,000 signatures had been affixed in the course of two hours. The petitioners prayed the House to exert the constitutional powers that belonged to it in asserting the rights of the people, and in preventing any mutilation of this Bill. An hon. Member opposite had talked of the "scum of society." Now, he begged to inform the hon. Member that this petition was signed by the most respectable inhabitants of Liverpool. He trusted that the House would attend to the prayer of the petition, and not permit the mutilation of the Bill in the other House, where it was a present undergoing that process.
 Mr. Ormsby Gore  protested against the opinion that the agricultural interest enjoyed any exclusive advantages. That interest was not so much pressed against by direct taxation as by the amount which they were compelled to contribute for the support of other classes of the community. For instance, the agriculturists had to bear the largest share of the burthen of the Poor-laws, whilst the manufacturing population contributed the largest proportion of the applicants for relief. For the reduction which had been made to benefit the agricultural interest, he thanked the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, though it must be considered so exceedingly slight; to a class of persons, too, who had borne their distress with the greatest forbearance, and by whom no political unions or overwhelming assemblies were ever resorted to as a means of procuring relief. It could, however, scarcely be considered sufficient as an encouragement to their loyalty.
 Sir Charles Broke Vere  was sorry to cast any gloom over the happy pictures of commercial prosperity which the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had presented to the House; but really there was one class of people whose condition had long formed an exception to the generally prosperous state of the country; namely, the agricultural inteerest. The occupiers of land had suffered for years and were still suffering grievously, particularly under the operation of local taxation, which pressed with peculiar severity on them. He hoped the Government would take this subject into their consideration, and devise some means of mitigating the severity of their local burthens.
 Mr. Henry L. Bulwer  said, it was gratifying to notice the reductions which had taken place ever since he had been in the House. He agreed with the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as to the advisable, ness of keeping on the taxes, both on spirit-licences and glass. He agreed, however, with his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Bath, with respect to the tax on newspapers. He thought something might have been done without materially affecting the revenue. But he must say, that considering all the circumstances of the case—considering the reductions that had lately taken place—considering that they all had their particular tax to take off—and considering, too, the peculiar circumstances under which the Government were in office, he thought all allowances ought to be made, and that they ought not to press on them just now the reduction of a duty to which, nevertheless, he should always be unfavourable.
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  had great pleasure in complimenting the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer upon the very clear, elaborate and satisfactory manner in which he had explained his financial views to the House. He had listened with great attention to the address of the right hon. Gentleman, and he must confess that he had also listened with the greatest satisfaction. At the same time, however, he must say, that he did not think the revenue was precisely in that buoyant condition which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had contemplated. When Lord Althorp effected the reduction of the house duties, and those upon spirits and other matters, the noble Lord calculated the consequent deficiency for the current year at 736,000 l. l.
 Mr. A. Trevor  moved that the Sale of Beer Bill be read a second time.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  could not think of withdrawing this Bill, which was intended to put down a great agricultural nuisance, without hearing what were the objections entertained against it.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  protested against the practice, now unfortunately too common, of alluding so pointedly in that House to the proceedings, or the anticipated proceedings, of the House of Lords. He did not know on what authority the hon. Member for Wolverhamton felt himself justified in declaring that their Lordships were either ignorant of the feelings or indifferent to the welfare of the people of England. It was in his opinion most irregular and unjustifiable for hon. Members to cast imputations upon the House of Lords, which had as much right as the House of Commons to deliberate on every measure that came before it.
 Viscount Morpeth  was unwilling to quote unnecessarily from confidential documents; but the learned Judge's statement was, that although Sir Robert Ferguson said he had been informed by some of the jury that there were circumstances in the case of Maclachlan which entitled him to consideration more than others, he (Mr. Baron Pennefather) had since read his notes of the trial, which were very long, and the conclusion he came to was, that the sentence on Maclachlan was not too severe, and that there ought to have been no remission of it.
 Viscount Morpeth  felt himself under an obligation to the hon. Member for mentioning the subject, for otherwise he was not sure whether he should have been warranted in trespassing on the indulgence of the House, even if he had stooped to the offer of an explanation, in consequence of the attacks upon him proceeding from a Court of Justice in Ireland, and echoed from a situation nearer home. The imputed blame divided itself into two heads—the one applied to his Excellency the Lord Lieutenant, for not having paid due deference to the learned Judge who tried the case, and the other to himself, for having put forward an unfounded statement. As to the Lord Lieutenant, as he did not understand that the charge was renewed, he should only mention that so far from having shown any slight to the learned Judge by acting before he had ascertained his opinion, it was only after thoroughly examining and anxiously weighing the opinion handed over to him by his predecessor, Lord Haddington, that Lord Mulgrave proceeded to act. Surely it would not be contended that the exercise of the prerogative of mercy was to be exclusively limited by the opinion and report of the Judge. The opinions of the Judges were very proper and necessary ingredients in forming a decision, but he trusted that the responsible advisers and the representatives of the imperial crown of this country, were not, in all cases, to be bound by them. With respect to his own share in the transaction, he found that the proceedings took place at the Assizes which had just terminated for the county of Londonderry, and he would read to the House the report from  The Dublin Evening Mail, 512 513
 Mr. Wallace  rose to ask a question of the President of the Board of Control on the interesting subject of the proposed communication with the East-Indies by the Red Sea or by the Euphrates. The East-India Company had agreed to take measures for establishing an intercourse by the Red Sea, but they had failed; and on Friday last the Directors had put up a notice, stating that the mails for April, May, June, and July, might not be carried forward to India. He did not impute blame to any quarter, because he was ignorant whether it was deserved; but he wished to press upon the Government, the East-India Company, and the Post-office, the propriety of taking immediate steps to forward the correspondence. He would take leave to say, that he much feared the attempt to establish a communication by the Euphrates would not succeed, but he had better hopes of the route by the Red Sea. It was a strange fact, that one hundred millions of the King's subjects had no direct communication with Europe.
 Mr. Waller  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman a question relative to a Motion of his which had stood upon the paper for several days past. What he desired to know was, whether the right hon. Gentleman would undertake that no further sum should be advanced by his Majesty's Government towards the Thames Tunnel undertaking till next Session. If the right hon. Gentleman would enter into such an understanding with him, he would defer his Motion till next Session; but if the right hon. Gentleman declined the arrangement he proposed, he should feel it to be his
 614
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said it was quite impossible for him to accede to what the hon. Gentleman had just proposed. To allow the circumstance of a Motion having been merely entered upon the order-book, there having been no discussion upon it by which the sense of the House could be arrived at, to interrupt the progress of the public business, would be to establish the principle that any Motion of which only notice had been given might interfere with the most important business of the country. He might engage to this extent—that due care should be taken that there should be no further grant without such a satisfactory report having been laid before him with regard to the expenditure which had taken place, as well as to the course which was to be pursued in future, as would enable him to justify whatever proceeding he might recommend. He was aware that this was a matter which required great consideration; the amount to be granted was a large sum of money; and the hon. Member might be sure that no one could have a stronger personal interest than himself in seeing that the money was not expended improperly, or that the grant was not made in a manner such as would not enable him to present to Parliament a satisfactory statement on the subject. He was prepared to say, with regard to the Motion, that he would be the last in the world to resist it, if it could be shown that there existed any ground for a Parliamentary inquiry. He was quite willing that any acts of his, or of the Government, should be made the subject of investigation; but if the Motion were only to inquire into the circumstances under which an Act of Parliament had been passed, that appeared to him not to be such an object as would warrant the House in granting an investigation.
 Mr. O'Connell  remarked that there was in Scotland an hallucination of the mind that was called "second sight;" and it appeared to him that his hon. Friend was labouring under a delusion of that kind. The imagination of his hon. Friend ran away with his judgment; and his religious feelings were so excited—they were so Quixotic—that if he did not see giants in windmills, why he turned the windmills into giants. This Bill had seriously nothing to do with religion; creeds could not interfere with it; its object was one which every
 617 l.,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed that there was an Act already in existence, by which he believed that the object of the Amendment of the hon. Member for Bridport would be answered.
 Mr. O'Connell  was favourable to the
 620
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that as far as regarded the removal of the ruins he did not think that the House was called upon to pass any resolution upon the subject, particularly as his hon. Friend, the Member for Lambeth, had admitted that a promise had been made that the ruins
 621
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed that the Treasury was always ready to pay any expenses incurred before Committees, when the charges were certified by the Speaker or the Chairman of the Committee. The Treasury could not make any payments without this form, unless by the direct authority of the House. He should, on all occasions, be ready to support a motion for the payment of what was fitting. In general, parties should be led to believe that if they instituted proceedings of this kind, they did so at their own expense; but when there was such a clear result as there was in the present case, and the public had gained such advantages by the exposure of these corrupt practices, it was right that the public should share the expense.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  felt it right to observe, if the House adopted the suggestion of his hon. Friend, that a resolution ought to be put on the journals, declaring that it should not be drawn into a precedent.
 Sir John Y. Buller  observed that the Committee had no direct precedent which would justify their ordering the payment of the witnesses; they therefore thought it better to leave the matter to the House.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed if the motion really stood on the ground urged by his hon. Friend, he should not have been indisposed to do what was required; but as the case really stood, it was impossible for him to assent to the motion. The objection to the repeal of the newspaper tax was solely of a financial nature. As long as the revenue of the country was in its present condition, it was impossible for him to assent to the proposition. With respect to the present motion he would only observe, that he might as well remove the tax on newspapers altogether, as adopt the present suggestion. Under the operation of this Act alone were they enabled to punish the publishers and venders of unstamped newspapers. He was anxious to consider the whole subject with a view to a satisfactory result, but they were not then in a position to discuss it. Let them have their discussion on the question and he did not doubt he should
 624
 Mr. Charles Butter  was at a loss to understand why the right hon. Gentleman should wish to preserve this Act for the sake of a Clause it contained, enabling him to enforce the stamp laws; surely he could preserve one portion of the Act, and repeal the other. The right hon. Gentleman had attempted to justify his prosecution of those who had violated the stamp laws by saying it was necessary to protect the fair dealer, but what he complained of was that the fair dealer was not protected at this moment. The  Twopenny Dispatch Police Gazette
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said it
 626
 Dr. Baldwin  said, that it would appear from the observations of the hon. Member (Mr. Sinclair) as if that hon. Gentleman considered that the entire of the cities and counties in Ireland, as far as related to the Roman Catholic inhabitants, were under the influence of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. Those who entertained such an opinion, knew nothing of Ireland, and were unacquainted with the intelligence of the people of that country. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin owed his influence to this—that the people sympathised, with his efforts to redress the
 618
 Mr. Cressett Pelham  cautioned the House against opening the door to applications of this nature.
 Lord Ashley  had to thank the hon. Member for his courtesy in advertising him of the presentation of the petition, as he had thereby been enabled to communicate on the subject with Mr. Dawson, who was in Ireland. As, however, he had been ignorant of the details of the case, as now brought forward by the hon. Member, his communication with Mr. Dawson was necessarily of a limited nature. As for
 605 d. d. d., d. d., d., 606 d. d.
 Lord John Russell  observed, that all seemed to turn upon the credit and character of Mr. Pearse, because he entirely agreed with the noble Lord that it might be extremely wrong in a Government office to take the lowest tender. It might be made by a person who had no means of fulfilling it, and injury would thus be done to the public service. If there were sufficient facts to establish that he was a person with whom no engagement should be made, the Admiralty would be justified in taking Mr. Scott'soffer. Therefore, the whole question was a matter of character, and it might be fit to institute an inquiry.
 Lord John Russell  agreed fully that the present system of qualification was oftentimes injurious, but was not prepared at once to say, that at this period of the Session, and in the present state of the House, so many Members being absent who might he desirous to take part in the discussion of the subject, they ought at once to pass such a measure as the present, doing away with all qualification whatsoever—or even a Measure admitting a qualification of other kinds of property. He should, therefore, wish that the proposed Bill should not proceed further.
 Lord John Russell : I am obliged to the hon. Member, and to the House generally, for the indulgence it has shown with respect to this arduous question. Ministers have been, of course, unwilling to come to any decision which might be thought hasty or inconsiderate, and hence has arisen much delay; but I intend to propose in the next Session a measure, by which a permanent judge for the Court of Chancery will be appointed. I need not say that the question of the separation of the political and judicial functions of the Lord Chancellor requires to be examined with great care, and weighed with extreme nicety; it may be necessary to make a provision for an additional judge; but that and all other parts of the subject call for mature consideration.
 Mr. Lynch  could not allow the Session to close without asking Ministers whether they had come to any determination, and what,
 610
 Mr. Hawes  rose, pursuant to notice, to submit three resolutions to the House respecting the rebuilding of the Houses of Parliament. The object of his first resolution was to extend the time for giving in the plans, estimates, and specifications for building the new Houses of Parliament. The time for furnishing the plans, &c, was limited to the first of January next, beyond which period they would not be received. Now, he conceived that the effect of thus restricting the time within such narrow bounds would be to deter many young and aspiring artists from entering the field of competition, and he was assured by several architects, that if they and their clerks worked incessantly for the next four months, they would not have time to give in their plans and proposals by the 1st of January. He hoped, therefore that there would be no objection made to extend the time so as to give all parties a fair and equal chance. The second resolution related to the removal of the ruins of St. Stephen's Chapel, but as the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had assured the House that the removal of the ruins should not take place until the plans for rebuilding the Houses had been decided upon, and as the Committee had expressed an opinion to that effect, he would not anticipate any objection to the second resolution. The other resolution was to this effect—that in order to secure to the public the benefit of a fair competition, the several plans, when sent in, should be exhibited in some place adapted to the purpose, and there hung up in public view, in order that they might be inspected before any decision should be made. The hon. Gentleman handed in the resolutions; and on their being put from the chair,
 Mr. Hawes  thought that the hon. Member for Liskeard need not have indulged in observations of so much severity, the right hon. Gentleman having declared that he could not spare the money, and it being of the last importance to preserve the public credit.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  did not see, that because foreigners pursued an unwise system, we should persist in a system equally unwise. It appeared to him that it would be very inexpedient for this country to purchase its commodities at a dearer market, because the country in which they could be obtained cheaper would not adopt our more liberal principles of commerce; such a course as that must have the effect of weakening the resources of our own industry, and depriving us of the means of competing with other countries in the markets for manufactured articles.
 Mr. Charles Wood  did not believe that the initials alluded to were those of Mr. Taylor, and agreed with the noble Lord that it was quite clear that the intention of the Admiralty was, that the contract should
 608 d. d.
 Mr. Robinson  had given notice that on the reading the Order of the Day he should call the attention of the House to the Commercial Confederation between the Kingdom of Prussia and other states of Germany; if, however, the bringing forward the subject was in the least degree inconvenient to the noble Lord, he would postpone it. He had already brought the subject under the attention of the House; but in consequence of what had taken place lately, he felt called upon, before the termination of the Session, once more to press the subject on the attention of the Government. The commercial arrangement to which he alluded did not extend merely to Prussia, but also obtained with regard to the other States of the North of Germany. He could not help feeling that the confederation to which he alluded was of the most extraordinary character, and was framed somewhat in a spirit of national hostility. He conceived the matter to be of considerable importance; and he, as a commercial man, should consider himself guilty of negligence if he did not call the attention of the House to it. Prussia, not satisfied with what she had already done, was endeavouring to induce other parties to join in this treaty, and since last year she had gained over the important State of Baden. It was difficult to point out the course Government should pursue under the circumstances of the case: but still the attention of the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign affairs, should be directed to the subject. Undoubtedly, every nation had a right to fix the duties on the importation
 611
 Mr. Sinclair : Sir, it is, perhaps, scarcely worth while to animadvert upon the tendency of this Measure, as it will be admitted both by its supporters and opponents, that there is no prospect of its becoming the law of the land during this Session, nor,—I
 615 616 cedant arma togœ
 Mr. Sinclair  was not the advocate of Corporate abuses, on the contrary, he would endeavour to remedy them; but he did not think this was the proper mode of proceeding to do so.
 Mr. George Young  recommended that negotiations should be opened with each country separately with regard to its trade. Those who expected that England would be made the workshop of the world by forcing free trade on other nations would find themselves egregiously deceived. He was glad that his hon. Friend had brought forward the subject; and must say, that the reply of the noble Lord had been any thing but satisfactory.
 Mr. Warburton  was glad that the noble Lord did not oppose the principle of the Measure, and hoped that his hon. Friend would comprise in it some provision abolishing the necessity for the declaration required of Members at the time of election, and for the description of which he was bound to give in of his qualification at the time of election.
 Mr. Warburton  said that the explanation of the noble Lord was most unsatisfactory, and he would move for a Committee on the subject to-morrow.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that he should before this have brought forward such a measure as that proposed by the hon. Member, but for two interruptions. First, the burning of the House, which involved the destruction of nearly two-thirds of the printed evidence of the Committee, which had consequently again to be written out from the short-hand notes, and printed; and secondly, the breaking up of the Ministry. He trusted, however, that in the beginning of next Session, he should be able to fulfil the hon. Member's wishes.
 Mr. Warburton  rose to present a Petition from Mr. Silas Pearse, of Plymouth, complaining of the conduct of some members of the late Board of Admiralty. The petitioner stated that a contract for 30,000 cubic feet of limestone for the purposes of the Plymouth Breakwater, having been advertised for by the Board of Admiralty, he tendered the same at the rate of 7 d. d. d. 604 d. d.
 Mr. Warburton  presented a Petition from forty-eight Licentiates of the College of Physicians against the revised code of bye laws promulgated by the College, which the petitioners described as containing restrictions not only unjust but illegal. The hon. Member in supporting the petition said, that though he did not mean to deny that the new code was an improvement in some important parts upon the existing bye laws, yet the restrictions which it continued upon the admissions to fellowships were not only most illiberal, but were altogether unwarranted by law. At present the Fellows must be either persons educated at one of our two Universities, or persons especially recommended by the President of the College. The new code preserved this narrow principle of election, or rather exclusion; and it was for this reason that the petitioners disapproved of it. The charter of the College, given it by Henry 8th, did not provide any manner by which the College should perpetuate itself. It merely appointed as Fellows certain persons, and all the members of the profession then practising in London; but no rule of perpetuation was laid down. The Medical Committee, of which he (Mr. Warburton) had had the honour to be chairman, had carefully examined, on these points, a gentleman (Mr. Wilcox) who had made the subject of medical jurisprudence the peculiar object of his studies. This gentleman stated his unqualified opinion, that the charter of Henry 8th having laid down no such rule for perpetuating this corporation, the College had no legal right to establish the restrictions complained of, but were bound to examine licentiates and judge of their claims to admission by their actual qualifications, and not with reference to the place where they had been educated.
 Mr. Warburton  proposed an Amendment, to the effect that "The Chief Remembrancer be restrained from engaging in any other office not connected with his duties as Remembrancer."
 Dr. Bowring  rose to submit to the House a motion, the object of which was the payment of the witnesses examined before the Yarmouth Bribery Committee. Men who came forward with a view of exposing bribery and corruption, and putting a stop to it, should not be exposed to loss in their exertions. The Committee up stairs had declared that all the allegations contained in the petition formerly presented had been fully borne out by the evidence. The grossest bribery and corruption had been proved, and it was shown that hundreds of electors had taken bribes.
 622
 Dr. Bowring  should be sorry to open the door widely to applications of this
 623
 Dr. Nicholl  thought it better, before they took any steps, to wait till the evidence was before them.
 Mr. Walter,  on the Order of the Day being moved, would make his Motion.
 Mr. Hume , after the statement of the noble Lord, had no alternative but to withdraw the Bill, at the same time he must say, that he had in nowise altered his opinion on its principle.
 Mr. Hume  was of opinion that it would be desirable that there should be some fixed rule as to whether witnesses should be paid or not, instead of leaving the matter to the Chairman of a Committee. Any sum proposed to be applied in the elucidation of such matters as had been disclosed before the Committee would be well expended. He was satisfied that it would be extremely unfair to throw the charge of these proceedings on individuals who had the public spirit to take up such subjects.
 Mr. Hume  moved the further consideration of the Report of this Bill, and said that its object was to extend the same principle upon this subject to England, Ireland, and
 619
 Mr. Hume  moved for leave to bring in a Bill for the Repeal of the Act 60 Geo. 3rd, c. 9, relative to the Newspaper Stamps and Political Pamphlets. He did so in the anxious hope that his right hon. Friend, who had felt it his duty to refuse to take off the stamp duty on newspapers, would assent to the motion. He was fully aware of the grounds on which his right hon. Friend refused to take off the newspaper stamps, but the same objections did not exist against the proposition he now made. There was no duty imposed by the Act he wished to have repealed; and if it were taken off the Statute-Book the revenue would not lose anything. It was one of those obnoxious measures introduced in 1819 by Lord Castlereagh, and he must say it was a disgrace to the Legislature which sanctioned it.
 Mr. Hume  was sorry to hear the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer say that he wanted the power which Lord Castlereagh had provided by the Act which went by his name; particularly as there were not less than nineteen other Acts on the same subject. He held in his hand a list of no less than 518 persons who had been prosecuted under what was called the "Trash Act;" under which any political publication of less than two sheets was liable to be seized unless stamped. He would just state an instance which would show what was the operation of that Act. When the Combination Laws were repealed, some gentleman wished to publish a cheap compendium of the existing laws on the subject, for the benefit of the poor. They took the opinion of Mr. Justice Tindal on the undertaking, and he told them that, if they repeated the publication they would be liable to be seized;
 625
 Mr. Hume  said, that those who allowed such a law to continue in force, were responsible for its consequences.
 Mr. Borthwick ;—The hon. Gentleman who has just sat down says that Ireland will have certain measures, either by fair or foul means, and desires the House to anticipate her wishes. Now this should not be the principle on which Government ought to proceed. The principle should be—what in justice ought Ireland to have, and what in justice ought to be denied to her? This having been inquired into and ascertained, let the motto be  fiat justilia ruat cœlum.
 Mr. Kirk  objected to the third reading of the Bill, but at that advanced period of the Session he could not think of detaining the House by entering at length upon the subject. He should content himself, under the present circumstances of the case, by entering his protest against the Bill.
 Mr. Wakley  supported the petition.
 603
 Mr. Wakley  seconded the motion. If the newspaper tax were taken off, and the present Act continued, the sale of cheap political publications would be prevented. After what the right hon. Gentleman had said the other night, in condemnation of the newspaper tax, and after his expression of regret that the state of the finances did not enable him to repeal it, he (Mr. Wakley) trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would consent to the present motion.
 Mr. Ewart  considered the principle of the Bill a sound one.
 Sir Edward Codrington  had received many letters from his constituents on the subject, and was desirous of saying a few words. He was surprised at what the noble Lord had ventured to say of Mr. Pearse's character without having any documents to support his assertion, and he appealed to the present Secretary to the Admiralty whether any such existed in that department. [Mr.  Charles Wood 607 Ashley Nota benes d. Nota bene.
 Sir John Hobhouse  would say a few words in answer to the hon. Member. The notice of the Court of Directors was given to prevent mistakes, which they feared would occur if it were delayed, The Chair-
 609
 Sir John R. Reid  entirely concurred with his hon. Friend the Member for Worcester in the view he had taken of the subject, and thought that it deserved the serious attention of the Legislature and the Government.
 Lord Ebrington  bore a favourable testimony to Mr. Pearse's character.
 Viscount Palmerston  did not intend to
 612 613
 Mr. Ruthven  was very averse to giving so much power to any individuals as was done by this Bill, and therefore he would oppose it. He thought the Bill one entirely for the rich, and not for the poor. Mechanics' Institutes were much more useful and convenient. Tea-gardens, &c, were not fitted for the habits of this people—they were more manly than the habits of the people of other countries, where the public gardens abounded.
 Colonel Perceval  would like to know on what grounds the Government attempted to degrade the unpaid and independent magistracy of Ireland by depriving them of the power of selecting the police—a duty for which no men were more competent, being men of property, and interested in the peace and well-being of the country? Why should these men be set aside, and that power transferred to some creature of the Lord-Lieutenant? According to the present Bill, they were to have inspectors for each county, and separate paymasters. He admitted one-half of the expense of that was to be paid out of the Consolidated Fund, but the other half was to be paid by the county. Again, there was to be one inspector, not less than four sub-inspectors, and not less than six chief constables, or more than eighteen. At present they had only four chief constables, and one inspector who acted as paymaster. He challenged the noble Lord to state any ground for this measure, which would have the effect of inflicting double the present expense on all the counties in Ireland. In his opinion the Bill was absurd throughout; the whole control was given to the Lord-Lieutenant, and he might exercise the capricious authority that was given him as he chose. There was an oath appended to the Bill, which he wished to know from the noble Lord whether it was intended to operate in aid of that oppression which had hitherto been exercised towards Orangemen, and whether all men belonging to Orange Societies were to be called upon to take that oath before they entered into the police? He wished to know whether that oath was intended as a trap to catch them, in order that they might be punished as the men at Ross were?
 Viscount Morpeth  thought with the hon. and gallant Member, that second thoughts were generally best; but he considered that the hon. and gallant
 657 l., l. l., 658 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 659
 Mr. Shaw  contended that the effect of this Bill would be to vest immense power and patronage in the hands of the Irish Government, and to supersede the Magistracy of the country. He did not object to there being one Inspector to the whole police force, but he wished to make some observations respecting the second clause—that relating to County Inspectors, which appeared to him to be a most important Clause. They were to have Inspectors for every county, and these were to take forthwith the oath taken by Justices, and, therefore, to become Justices of the Peace. If this were so, and they were to have salaried justices of the peace, these inspectors would virtually supersede the unpaid magistracy, and this introduced, in his opinion, a most impolitic principle. There would be no saving of expense, but even if it did, they would be obliged to purchase it at too dear a rate. He thought it a very dangerous and unconstitutional principle respecting the oath proposed to be taken. The noble Lord had let out what had led to the adoption of that oath. It was to exclude Orangemen.—[Lord  Morpeth 660
 Sir Edmund Hayes  thought there was nothing so objectionable in the principle of this Bill as to lead the House to refuse going into the Committee. He certainly did feel at first that the expenses were likely to be much increased by it, and consequently felt much hostility to the measure; but he must confess that the statement of the noble Lord led him to suppose that he had been in some measure mistaken. He did hope that this would not be made a party measure, by introducing topics calculated to excite animosity and warmth of language wholly unconnected with the subject; there were surely topics enough upon which to exercise the weapons of party warfare, and he
 661
 Mr. Twiss  could not agree to this suggestion of the hon. Gentleman, and trusted that he would not press his Amendment, because if he did, he would endanger the Bill in another place. He did
 662
 Dr. Lushington  said, that the law was at present in a most objectionable state. If a man had married, for example, any of his wife's relatives, up to her sister, it was at the option of any party, either because it was to his interest or at the suggestion of a hostile feeling, to proceed against the individual so marrying, and annul the marriage. The proceedings, however must be taken and concluded during the life-time of the individuals, otherwise the marriage was held to be legal, and the children became legitimate. One great objection to the existing law was, that it encouraged people to its violation by affording them the prospect of an escape from any of its penalties; another was, that parties who had contracted such marriages frequently, where property was concerned, passed their whole lives in great anxiety; and instances had come to his knowledge in which, to avoid a threatened prosecution, they had submitted to repeated extortion. The Amendment proposed by the hon. Gentleman involved an important question, and one upon which he had not yet made up his mind. He admitted the advantage to be gained in those cases in which a man married the sister of his wife when there was a young offspring; but on the other hand it was a subject for grave consideration, whether it might not be exceedingly dangerous with reference to the peculiar situation in which such connexions were naturally placed, and the great temptations to which they were subject, to encourage the feelings that might spring up between them. The consequences would, perhaps, be, that the wife during her life-time would have her jealousy excited, and suffer considerable anxiety and pain. Under these circumstances he hoped that the hon. Gentleman would not press his Amendment; for it was impossible at this period of the Session it could have the consideration due to its importance. He believed he had said enough to satisfy the House that so much of the Bill as went to legalize all such marriages as had taken place, or that might take place of the nature he had described, ought to be passed into a law without delay. He trusted that the hon. Gentleman would withdraw his Amendment.
 Lord John Russell  said, that if the Bill were pressed to a third reading, he should certainly be compelled to oppose it. He did not think that the compulsory establishment of public libraries, or other such institutions under the system proposed, would have the good effect contemplated by the hon. Member. The question of public education was a really national one, and he had always been of' opinion that, as a principle, public education should be made a matter of public charge. Those, however, who were connected with the conduct of public education in this country, stated, and certainly with much force, that so long as it was conducted by voluntary societies and committees, bodies which took the greatest interest in the promotion of the subject, it would thrive; but if the thing were made a matter of public charge, the people contributing to the charge would of course have a right to elect the governing bodies, and the probability was, that the majority of such electors would be altogether indifferent on the subject. What was thus stated with great force in reference to actual education, might be applied with ten-fold force to the establishment of public institutions and
 651
 Mr. Warburton  objected also to the principle of the Bill. He was afraid, if compulsory taxation were resorted to, it would make instruction unpopular among the people. The proposed institutions bore the same respect to scientific institutions as the Established Church bore to other religious establishments.
 Mr. Warburton  thought that the House ought to confine its attention to those measures that were really intended to be passed in the course of the present Session. It was evident the present measure could not be passed during the Session.
 Mr. Buckingham  trusted that the House would pass the Bill with as much rapidity as possible.
 Mr. Buckingham  would certainly not withdraw the Bill, to be made the scapegoat of the House. If they objected to the Bill, let them throw it out. He would certainly press his motion.
 Mr. Buckingham : The British Museum was supported by a compulsory assessment, levied on the country, and so was the National Gallery. The majority had to decide, and the minority were bound to assent to the agreement. But this Bill was not compulsory,—fifty rate-payers must first sign the requisition before a meeting could be held, and when that meeting was held two-thirds of the ratepayers must give their assent, with the knowledge that they must themselves pay the rate. This Bill would have a strong tendency to raise the moral habits of the working classes. Many men after their working hours were desirous of indulging their social feelings in talking with their neighbours; this at present they could only do at the public-house, where they proceeded for this purpose, and not, as he believed, to drink. This Bill would provide places of recreation free from the temptation of strong drink. He hoped, therefore, that the House would permit the Bill to pass through Committee; and if, after it should be amended, the sense of the House should be decidedly against the Bill, it might be expressed on the third reading.
 Mr. Pease  reminded the Committee that two-thirds of the rate-payers must be brought to the poll, and must express themselves willing to incur the rate. They were the best judges of the habits and morals of the community who were to be served by this Bill, and he, therefore, felt bound to advocate its principle. The stopping of foot paths and Enclosure Bills had deprived the lower classes of many rational amusements, and it was desirable, therefore, in every way possible, to open to them new sources of innocent and healthful amusement. The assessment under this Bill must be, to all intents and purposes, voluntary; and he knew that in
 653
 Mr. Wakley  much regretted that such opposition was now offered to the measure; but under the circumstances, he hoped his hon. Friend would consent to withdraw the Bill for the present Session, lather than have it rejected, or subject the House to the odium of throwing out so beneficial a measure. So far from the House objecting to a compulsory tax for the purposes of public institutions of this description, they ought to promote their increase to the greatest possible extent. They were indispensably necessary as some set off against the multitudinous and enormous barracks, gaols, and workhouses, which in their splendour were a deep disgrace to the country. The promotion of such institutions as those now proposed, would have the effect of speedily putting an end to the necessity for the other description of establishments. No subject was more important than the diffusion of education. The voluntary system had been tried, and had failed: another must be adopted. For upwards of four hundred years had we been in possession of the glorious art of printing, yet what was the existing state of the public mind? He would illustrate what that public mind was, by an example or two which had lately come under his notice. He happened to be down in Devonshire at the last election for that county; what were the reasoning faculties of the farmers there, who were brought up to vote against the noble Lord (John Russell)? What were their alleged reasons for their opposition? "Augh," said they, "we woant ha' na Lard John Rissell! we woant ha' na reform! we woant ha' na Pooap!" He asked one of them, "Would not you
 655
 Mr. Wyse  was in favour of such a power being given to Municipal bodies, but as the Bill relative to those Corporate bodies had not yet passed, it was absolutely necessary that the hon. Member should introduce some machinery, and the only question was, whether that machinery was good or not. He thought the objection to that machinery was not well founded, as it provided that at least two-thirds of the rate-payers should be in favour of that measure, and as the assessment was limited to sixpence in the pound, it was quite obvious that this system could not be open to the same objections as others which would tend to impose heavy burdens upon the people. It was absurd to suppose that the rate-payers of populous towns would be so indifferent to their own interests as not to attend the public meetings, and object to any improper or extravagant proposition. Public opinion, the Press, and the conversation of the inhabitants, one with another, would operate as checks upon any lavish or extravagant expenditure. He should certainly give his decided support to the Bill.
 Mr. Ewart  had the greatest respect for this Bill, but he must confess that, in his opinion, its provisions would be better administered by the local Councils under the Municipal Bill. In the principle of the Bill he cordially agreed.
 Mr. William Smith O'Brien  was in favour of the measure, and wished to see the Continental system introduced into England. He hoped that hereafter, not only with reference to that institution, but to all others of a similar kind, they would encourage the principle of local assess-
 652
 Mr. Tooke  thought the House would stultify itself if it passed this Bill through the present stage with the Clause relative to the compulsory rate. The hon. Member moved that the Clause be omitted.
 Mr. Tooke  would certainly take the sense of the House upon the Clause, unless upon the understanding that the Bill should not be passed. He would have done this earlier, but that the House was in such a state, that if he proceeded to a division, much public business would be impeded, and he certainly expected that this Bill would not be carried forward. He did not understand what was meant by saying that the rate was not compulsory. It was clearly as compulsory as any other rate or taxation in the district. The rate was to be agreed to, not by two-thirds of the rate-payers generally, but of those that attended at the meeting, which was a very different thing. He thought, also, there ought to be some limit, say 20 l. l. 654
 Sir E. Codrington  hoped the hon. Member would press it, to see who was against the Bill. Constant agitation upon the subject was the only way in which to secure success.
 Sir John C. Hobhouse  would be inclined to agree with those hon. Members who were for throwing out the Bill altogether. He had no idea that the Bill would have passed the second reading, and so far as he was individually concerned he had made up his mind to give it the most decided opposition. Was not legislation upon such matters as the following most absurd. He would read only the side head:—"Objects to be secured by public walks and public halls: fires to be lighted, and chairs to be provided for social meetings." The idea of providing tables, chairs, &c, for the use of the public hall was absurd as a piece of legislation. The hon. Member perhaps meant well, but it did not shew as much discrimination as he should expect from the maturity of the hon. Member's judgment. He should most decidedly oppose the Bill.
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to present a Petition from Newfoundland, which was most numerously signed, and some of the signatures were highly respectable, complaining of the administration of justice in that country. They complained of the present Chief Justice Bolton, and they stated that in the year 1826, upon the granting of a new charter, there were provisions in that charter directing all rules of Court to be published for three months, and then transmitted for the sanction of the Crown, It appeared that in 1826 the names of the Juries were arranged in alphabetical order, and the jurors were directed to be called consecutively in that order. This was a perfectly fair mode of arranging a Jury, without reference to party politics or religion. This was the case till Judge Bolton was appointed Chief Justice, and his first step was to abolish
 673 l.
 Mr. O'Connell  would only remark that the signatures had been open to the inspection of the Chief Justice's friends for several days. He begged to express his entire satisfaction at the statement of the right hon. Baronet, and he was sure the colonists would learn with great satisfaction the mode in which the case had been treated by his Majesty's Government. With respect to the change in the Jury process, he believed that it was a violation of the charter, and it was necessary to inquire into it. The charge of having acted in his own case had, he was glad to find, met the disapprobation of Government, and had received as severe a censure as could well be inflicted upon any judicial functionary. It had been urged by the hon. Recorder that the Chief Justice was a very cool man, and therefore could
 675
 Colonel Fairman  was called in, placed at the Bar, and interrogated by
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to order.  [The witness was ordered to withdraw.]
 Mr. O'Connell  said that was no proof the hon. and gallant Officer did not want it.
 Mr. O'Connell  said he must suggest to the House whether the line of examination which the hon. and gallant Officer opposite was pursuing was the proper one under the circumstances? The witness had been asked, not whether he had refused to give up all letters relating to Orange Lodges in the army, but whether he had refused to give up all letters whether relating to Orange Lodges in the army or not?
 Colonel Fairman  having been re-conducted to the Bar, was again examined by
 By Mr. O'Connell : That book contains letters subsequent to those which are to be found in the book which you have produced? Decidedly.
 By Mr. Bonham Carter : When you receive letters do you submit them to the Grand Orange Lodge or to any member of it? Never.
 By Mr. Bonham Carter : If the Grand Orange Lodge required the answer or the copy of the answer given by you to a particular communication, would you look for it in this book?—Undoubtedly.
 By Mr. O'Connell : Do the private letters you speak of refer chiefly to Orange matters? Chiefly. [The witness here said that as he had not seen the evidence taken before the Committee on the matter in question he hoped the House would order it to be read over to him before he was required to answer any other question. He made this application under the supposition that it was not inconsistent with the rules of the House.]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  must protest against any such proceeding, because it would lead to manifest inconvenience if the evidence taken before a Committee up stairs was to be read over in that House. Besides, the adoption of so unusual a course would guide the witness as to the evidence which he should give, and enable him to reconcile any contradiction or discrepancy which might exist between his present and his former statements.
 Mr. O'Connell . I believe, Sir, that the examination has closed  [Cries of "No, no."]
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that there was no complaint of any difference in the testimony before the House and before the Committee.
 Colonel Fairman  was again called to the Bar, and re-examined.
 Colonel Fairman : I found it in the office of the Orange Society.
 Colonel Fairman : I kept that book on my own and sole authority.
 Colonel Fairman : They were written in my own private capacity.
 Mr. Sham : Was it or was it not a continuation of the other book?
 Colonel Fairman : It certainly was not.
 Colonel Fairman : I kept it for my own private purposes, and merely as a remembrance.
 Colonel Fairman : Such a proposition
 686
 Colonel Fairman : Certainly.
 Colonel Fairman : Now, after what has occurred, I do.
 Colonel Fairman : No, I would not care a halfpenny, if the contents were known from Whitechapel-bars, to Hyde Park-corner.
 Colonel Fairman : Exactly so.
 Colonel Fairman : It is not.
 Colonel Fairman : The probability is that I should not have produced it.
 Colonel Fairman : It is in my own possession.
 Mr. Wallace  said, that he had found a precedent which would serve for the guidance of the House, under the present circumstances. It was one which occurred in the celebrated case of his late royal Highness the Duke of York, and Mrs. Mary Anne Clarke. When the Sergeant-at-Arms was directed to have Capt. Sandon taken to his (Capt. Sandon's) lodgings, and to bring to the House any papers which might there be found, this was accordingly done, and then, on the Motion of Mr. Warton, the House granted leave to the Committee, which sat upon the subject, to sit again, and also granted them a power to inspect the papers in question. Here there was a case in point, and he would accordingly move, that Colonel Fairman be taken into custody by the Sergeant-at-Arms, who should proceed with him to his
 687
 Colonel Fairman  was understood to say, that he still persevered in the refusal.
 Sir John Tyrrell  begged to bring the House back to the subject under consideration, which was, whether it would persist in putting the question to Colonel Fairman? He wished to remind them that there was no charge against this witness, notwithstanding which it was contemplated to send him to Newgate. He understood the hon. Member for Greenock to have given notice that he would move that the witness be taken into the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  wished to call the attention of the House to the exact position in which this question stood. The examination by the hon. Member for Bridport was in strict conformity with the precedents to be found on the Journals of the House; and after that examination was concluded, it would be open to the House to decide what further steps they should take with regard to the book. They had no right to object to a course of examination founded on Parliamentary precedent, from an apprehension that they might not approve of the course with which it might be proposed to follow up that examination. First, the examination should be proceeded with, then they should determine whether the book ought to be produced or not; and if the decision were in the affirmative, and the witness refused to produce it, they should then consider what further steps should be taken.
 Colonel Sibthorpe  expressed his deep regret that the book wag not in his posses-
 689
 Mr. Wallace  believed, that his conduct in that House and in the country would bear comparison with the hon. and learned Gentleman's at any time. He would add, that the remarks which the hon. and learned Gentleman had made regarding him were totally and positively unfounded. He was quite incapable of either the revengeful or the tyrannical feelings imputed to him, and he demanded of the hon. and learned Gentleman that he would state any instances with which he was acquainted in which his conduct had not been as high and unexceptionable in its bearing as that of any individual in the empire. He had never forgotten himself as the hon. and learned Gentleman had.
 Mr. Wallace  moved that Colonel Fairman be taken into the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  submitted to the hon. Gentleman that this would be going rather too quickly. The
 690
 Mr. O'Connell : Have you any other books containing correspondence between the Orange Lodges and the Grand Secretary?—None.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said that the Motion he should now put to the House was, that the witness who had just left the Bar was bound to produce the book. And he did not call on the House, in asking them to affirm this proposition, to affirm at the same time, the second proposition, namely, as to whether any and what steps should be taken to dissever that portion of the correspondence which was of a personal and private character from that which was purely public. He should not allude to the refusal of the witness to produce the book, but he would bring to mind the admission of the witness as to the contents of the book. Of what avail would it be to institute inquiries if they were to be opposed by such obstacles as were now under consideration? To what purpose
 691 692
 Mr. Sham  said, that the witness had no desire to keep back the letters, and that he would have been perfectly willing to accede to their production had he been properly asked. A sort of threat had been held out after he had first refused, whereupon he said that he would not produce them; again, however, he added that, considering himself committed to their production, he would assent to it, and then the question was put as to the production of papers relating to Orange Societies generally. In his opinion, the importance attached to this case was
 693
 The Solicitor-General  said, a more dangerous doctrine there could not be than that because a man alleges a particular document to be private he is therefore at liberty to withhold it, so as to defeat the ends of justice. Such a defence as that could not be received in a Court of Justice. As to the preference to the Dorchester Labourers, the case was not applicable. There the parties were regularly accused of having acted in defiance of the law, and the papers were seized, in order to arrive at the evidence against them. That was not the case in the present instance. The book which contained public documents could not be considered a private book, and therefore the witness was bound to produce it. Even if it were a private book he would be bound to produce it.
 Colonel Fairman  was ordered to appear at the Bar.
 Colonel Fairman  withdrew.
 Mr. O'Connell  said that he was opposed to the 9th Clause, as he saw no reason why the revision should not be general; that Clause certainly was not introduced by the framers of the Bill. As the gallant Member for Sligo, however, was not opposed to
 702 Order, order.
 Mr. O'Connell continued : all he said was, that the present system might afford that opportunity. The objection to the last Clause he thought unjust as well as absurd. Now, was it not a great anomaly that a chattel interest should be valued differently from a freehold interest; and here he might be permitted to state that, a Chief Justice in Ireland framed a new oath, not the one described in the act. He mentioned the circumstance to show the manner in which Irish Judges acted. He considered a ten-pound franchise too high for so poor a country as Ireland. The
 703
 Mr. Sham  said, it was impossible to sit silent and hear the hon. and learned Gentleman slander every member of his own profession, from the highest judge on the bench to the humblest member of the bar. He (Mr. Shaw) denied that the judges in Ireland were political partizans. So far as their politics had been known before they were on the bench, they held as various opinions on the Roman Catholic and other great political questions of the day as any other class of men; but, as to their judicial acts since having been in any respect influenced by their political opinions, it was an assertion the hon. and learned Gentleman would scarcely venture upon in his own country, where those judges were known. But, in truth, his abuse was unsparing of every one in authority, from the highest to the lowest; and how inconsistent was the hon. and learned Gentleman in that very Bill, when he proposed to give a final and conclusive appeal to those very judges whom he said could not be depended upon. He would not oppose the second reading of the Bill, as it contained some good provisions, although he greatly objected to others—for instance, that which took the registration out of the hands of the assistant-barristers, and vested it in those of barristers appointed for the occasion by the existing Government; also, to that Clause which rendered valid all votes now registered, however fraudulently, there having been before no appeal except to that House, in case of their improper admission. All he required was, that an appeal should be
 704 l.
 Mr. Randall Plunkett  said, it was of the utmost importance that some criterion should be fixed, in order to establish what was meant by a beneficial interest. There was no doubt on his mind, however, that it was such an interest as should give 10 l.
 Mr. Egerton  said, that he certainly objected to the part of the Bill which protected persons at present registered from being subject to any scrutiny. As a Member of the Carlow Committee, he could state, that it appeared in evidence before them that men had sworn they possessed a beneficial interest of ten pounds out of a farm of three or four acres, for which they paid two or three guineas an acre; whereas it was distinctly proved they possessed no such interest.
 The Solicitor-General  said, it appeared to him that the attempt made by the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Mr. Sergeant Jackson) was an attempt to extend one of the most mischievous Bills, in point of principle, that ever passed that House. What did that Bill provide for? That trustees, who were bound to invest their monies in real security in England and Wales, might be at liberty to lay it out in Ireland. This qualification, however, was imposed—if this money were to be lent on Irish security, it should remain within the jurisdiction of the English courts. That provision undoubtedly took the sting out of it; and if that alone were repealed, the greatest injustice would be done.
 Mr. O'Connell : That proposition was not accurately stated. The consequence of the Bill, standing as it at present did, would be, that instead of a  bonus 710
 Mr. Cresset Pelham  protested against such an arbitrary act.
 Mr. Cresset Pelham  thought the question put to the witness by the hon. and gallant Member for Sligo a very proper one.
 Mr. Scarlett  begged that the witness might be re-called. He had a very important question to put to him.
 Mr. Scarlett  could not allow the Resolution to pass without protesting against it, on account of the principle which it involved. If a precedent were to be laid down for breaking into a man's house for the purpose of seizing his private docu-
 694
 Mr. Scarlett : You say the book contains copies of answers which you wrote to the Orange Institutions; did you sign your name simply, or did you add your title?—Generally speaking I signed but my name: it is universally known what office I hold, and I do not think it necessary to sign D. G. S.
 Mr. Vesey  complained of the expense of booths, and the various expenses incident upon a contested election being placed upon the county. He thought they were sufficiently taxed at present without having any additional burden placed upon them.
 Lord Ashley  said, that the grievance complained of occurred in February last; yet now, on the 19th of August, the hon. Gentleman proposed to take into consideration the conduct of an individual who had been for the last five months in London, but who was now in Ireland with his family, and unable to defend himself. He hoped the hon. Member would have too much justice to conduct the prosecution in the absence of the accused. Why not bring forward the affair before, while his friend was present to defend himself? That would have been a more fitting and honourable course than to impeach him the moment he left the country.
 Lord Ashley  was certainly astonished that this subject was not brought to an investigation at an earlier period of the Session. He would say now, however, that he was perfectly willing to take all responsibility that could fairly be attached to him on himself, and to abide by the decision even of the hon. Member for Middlesex as judge.
 Lord John Russell  moved that the witness be re-called.
 Lord John Russell  thought, it would be better to narrow the inquiry. It appeared, that the witness had been asked certain questions, and, for fear of a mistake, he wished to have his previous testimony read to him. Now this would be very fair, if there was any suspicion existing as to discrepancy or contradiction, but there was no suspicion in existence. The question was, whether or not the witness refused to give up the document, and on his answer the House could determine how to proceed.
 Lord John Russell  conceived that the hon. and gallant Officer had a right to put any question to the witness he thought fit.
 Colonel Perceval  was sure the House would do him the justice to admit that the question he had put to the witness was one which was calculated to extract from him answers which must prevent him from concealing anything even if he were so inclined, which evidently was not the case. He, therefore, did not deserve the attack which had been made upon him. But all he could say was, that he would rather be exposed to the hon. and learned Member's censure than be the object of his commendation.
 Colonel Perceval : I may have been irregular, but I must contend that such is not the fact.
 Colonel Perceval  said, that notwithstanding the lecture on evidence which he had received from the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, he must say that he could conduct the examination of the witnesses in as fair, manly, aboveboard, and impartial a manner as if he had taken the lesson which had been read to him. He would not, however, take the hon. and learned Gentleman's lesson.
 Colonel Perceval . Now, Sir, I wish to know whether the book which you have called a private book, and which you have refused to furnish to the Committee, is a continuation of the letter-book of which the Committee are already in possession? It certainly is not a continuation.
 Colonel Perceval  contended that the Committee were bound to confine themselves to the army only.
 Colonel Perceval  differed from the doctrine laid down by the noble Lord, the Paymaster of the Forces. When that noble Lord said, that Colonel Fairman was bound to produce the book which Colonel Fairman stated to be his own private property, he would put it to the House whether they would assume to themselves such an inquisitorial power? If they assumed such a power over private property, he, for one, would enter his protest against it. The Colonel had agreed to give up such portions of the book as related to Orangeism in the army, but very properly withheld that portion which was private. If he (Colonel Perceval) stood in the place of
 684
 Colonel Perceval  said, that the whole of the evidence should be read, if they meant that the witness should rightly understand the course which it would be for him to take.
 Colonel Perceval  rose to order, and said he thought it most discreditable for any Member to attribute perjury to Members of that House. He must say that the imputation could not personally apply to him, inasmuch as he never sat on a Committee since the day he first entered Parliament. He begged to call upon the Chair to state whether or not the remarks of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin were orderly or not.
 Colonel Perceval  said, that as to the parallel attempted to be drawn between Orange Lodges and the case of the Dorchester labourers he would observe that if it could be proved that the Orangemen were an illegal body they would have been gladly prosecuted by the Government; and they were spared, and reluctantly, because they were legal. Let the Government fasten on any particular fact, and punish the Orangemen. But they knew they could not, and perhaps they regretted it, for the Orange Association was a legal one. [Mr.  Hume:
 Colonel Perceval  looked upon this Bill as one of a very important character, and he could not but think that it very properly gave the English trustee, investing his money in Irish security, the aid and protection of the English courts. He was very much disposed to think it but just to allow English trustees and capitalists the protection, in such cases, of the English law. He was not, of course, professionally acquainted with the law, but he could not but think this would be of great advantage to all parties concerned. If the Irish landlord chose to avail himself of English capital, it was but fair that the English trustees should have the protection of the English courts in case of a failure of the Irish landlord.
 Colonel Perceval  said, that although he did not intend to object to the second reading of the Bill, there were yet some clauses in it from which he so strongly dissented, that he could not permit the Bill to be read a second time without offering a few observations upon it. He would, in the first place, call the attention of the Committee to the title of the Bill. It was intituled, a Bill "to amend the law relative to the Registry of Voters in Ireland, and to taking the poll at elections, in that part of the United Kingdom, and to assimilate the same as nearly as may be to the law in force in England and Wales." That certainly was a plausible title; but, in reading the Bill, he found it deviating in many important particulars from the practice in England—and, amongst others, he would cite the case of granting the power of appointing the Revising Barristers in Ireland to the Lord Lieutenant, whereas, in England, the right existed in the Judges. He must own that if no other discrepancy existed, that one case alone would do away with much of the confidence which reading the title of the Bill was calculated to inspire. If any person were to refer to the preamble of the Bill, they would be led to believe that a new Registry under it was absolutely necessary. The first clause under it was as follows, viz.:—
 "That notwithstanding any law now in force in Ireland, no person whatever shall, after the first day of March next, be entitled
 700 bonâ fide And be it further enacted, that the said Revising Barrister shall also revise the list of the names of the persons now registered, or who shall appear on the register hereby directed to be kept, as having been registered by the Revising Barrister under this Act, and shall examine into any objection which may be made to the right of any such person to have his name continued on such register, provided it shall appear to such Barrister that such objection is founded on some matter respecting the qualification of such voter, which occurred since the former revision or registry. 701 And be it declared and enacted, that in estimating and determining whether any person who shall claim to be allowed to register as a voter has a beneficial interest to the amount in value required by the said in part recited act of the second and third years of the reign of his present Majesty, intituled, "an act to amend the representation of the people of Ireland," in or out of the premises in respect whereof he claims to register, the said revising barristers, or any judge, on an appeal to him, shall estimate such value according to the beneficial interest which the person so claiming to register has in such premises, and not according to the rent which a solvent tenant could afford to pay for the same, over and above the rent which the person so claiming to register is liable to pay.
 By Colonel Perceval .— Has any proposition been made to you to extract such letters as related exclusively to Orange Institutions? Yes.
 Mr. Lynch  said, he had heard no statement made to the House which should induce it to go into Committee on this Bill. The first and second readings having been allowed to pass without any observations whatever, he was, therefore, induced to trouble the House with a short statement of the circumstances under which he brought forward the original Bill, and those under which they were now called on to repeal one of its main provisions. On the fate of that Clause which they were now called on to repeal, the Bill itself depended. It did not appear to him at all unreasonable to allow parties to lay out
 707 l. l. 708
 Mr. Harvey : Do you consider the letters addressed to you in your capacity of secretary, your own private property or the property of the society?—The property of the society.
 Mr. Harvey : Were the letters you received addressed to you in the character of Secretary to the Orange Lodges?—Certainly.
 Mr. Divett  begged the House to suspend its judgment on the case at present. He had been informed that many of the signatures to these petitions were in the same handwriting. He should merely observe, in conclusion, that the Chief Justice had received an address on leaving the Colony, expressive of the gratification of the inhabitants at the manner in which he had discharged his official duties.
 Mr. Fitzstephen French  hoped that voters would be allowed to vote in different districts as in England, and not be obliged to travel twenty-five or thirty or more miles to the poll, as they were at present under the necessity of doing. This was rendered more necessary, as two days were only to be allowed for the election.
 Mr. Shaw  said, it would be impossible Mr. Dawson could be in London within a week. He thought it was far too late in the Session to proceed with such an inquiry as the hon. Member proposed. It would even be difficult to get a sufficient number of Members to constitute a Committee. And the chances were, before Mr. Dawson arrived, Parliament would be prorogued.
 Mr. Shaw  was of opinion, that Colonel Fairman acted under the conviction that he was bound by a point of honour not to produce the book. It was fair, that the evidence which he had given before the Committee should be read to him.
 Mr. Shaw  said, he was not a Judge, although he held a judicial office. He regretted, that he had been borne away by his argument to say anything which could be construed into offence; but he could not help feeling warmly; and, perhaps, too warmly expressing himself, when he per-
 688
 Mr. Shaw  did not think the hon. Member could be serious in this proposition.
 Mr. Shaw  protested against the tyranny of breaking into the residence of any subject of the realm, and taking possession of his property for the purpose of satisfying an impertinent curiosity, or gratifying a desire of revenge. He really did not think the hon. Member was serious when he first made the proposition, and it could only arise out of curiosity or revenge. That the book was private property, and that it was so considered by the Committee, was evident from their proposing that Colonel Fairman's Secretary should read those portions of it which related to Orange Societies, and not those of a private nature. Would the House, then, entertain such a proposition as that before them? The book was withheld by Colonel Fairman on a point of honour, he not deeming himself bound to give up to threats that which he considered his private property. For his own part, he was of opinion, that there were some to whom the production of the book would prove a disappointment, as in that case, Colonel Fairman would not be sent to Newgate.
 Mr. Shaw : If you had not been brought up here, is it likely you would have produced the book?
 Mr. Shaw : Then it is upon no Orange principle that you now refuse to produce the book.
 Mr. Shaw : Then your refusal now to produce it is on a point of honour?
 Mr. Shaw : Are you desirous of concealing the information which that book contains?
 Mr. Shaw : Do you now object to give up that portion which relates to military lodges?
 Mr. Shaw  said, that the object was not to instruct the witness in the answers which he was to give, but rather to direct him as to the course which he ought to take with respect to whether he ought to give up or withhold this book.
 Mr. Shaw  denied, that the examination had closed. The witness had merely withdrawn, in order that his hon. Friend (Sir Robert Inglis) might move, that the notes of the evidence should be read over to him.
 Mr. Shaw : Where did you find the first book?
 Mr. Shaw : Were the letters in that book official, or written in your own private capacity?
 Mr. Shaw : Were you directed to keep the other book, which you refuse to produce, by any person connected with the Orange institution, or was it merely a proceeding of your own?
 Mr. Shaw : Have you any objection to give up those portions which relate to other lodges?
 Mr. Shaw : Did you not consent to give up such portions of it as related to military lodges?
 Mr. Shaw : Was that book which you refused to give up official, or was it kept for your own private purposes?
 Mr. Shaw  contended no man could blame Chief Justice Bolton for his regulation regarding Juries, which had met with the approbation of not only his colleagues, but the majority of the Colony. There was at present no religious difference prevailing among the inhabitants of the Colony. Mr. Justice Bolton positively denied ever telling the Jury to place themselves in the condition of the plaintiff; and from the conversations he had with him he considered him to he a man of cool temper, and not likely to be led away by any party excitement. More than that, he had seen some public documents bearing high testimony to the impartiality and ability with which Mr. Bolton discharged his duty; and he thought that an opportunity ought to be given him of stating the circumstances under which he had committed a person for contempt of Court. It was admitted that he had acted legally, and it should be remembered that there was a great difference between the administration of the laws in this country and in a new Colony. It was true that great party spirit did prevail there, insomuch that an editor of one of the newspapers was stopped on the high road, in the middle of the day, and had his ears cut off; but Mr. Bolton did not in any way participate in the causes of this excitement.
 Mr. Aglionby  felt himself bound to say, that Colonel Fairman had given his evidence in the fairest and most manly manner up to a certain point, and that his demeanour before the Committee was most creditable and honourable. He (Mr. Aglionby) regretted, that the discussion had taken a turn which would, in the slightest degree, impute to Colonel Fairman any discrepancy in the answers which that Gentleman had given.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that they might now put to the witness the same questions which had been put to him by the Committee. This, he thought, would answer the object which the hon. Baronet had in view. Nothing could be more fair and candid than the conduct of the witness before the Committee.
 Mr. Aglionby  suggested whether the better course would not be to have the witness recalled.
 Mr. Aglionby  as a Member of the Committee, must say that Colonel Fairman at first refused to give any evidence before the Committee. It was true he attempted to justify his refusal by saying that there were certain secrets which he could not reveal. He proposed to trust to the honour of Colonel Fairman as a gentleman to keep back what was private, and divulge what was public. That act he (Mr. Aglionby) would not now justify, for he was of opinion that the gentleman should furnish any information within his reach, private as well as public.
 Mr. Warburton  said that he had postponed his Motion at an early period of the Session for a considerable time, in order to accommodate the noble Lord (Lord Ashley.)
 Mr. Warburton  did not know why it was the petition was put so late in his hands, but immediately on its receipt he took measures for instituting an investigation. He thought there would be plenty of time to enter upon the subject, even though some days must elapse before the return of Mr. Dawson.
 Mr. Warburton  moved that the consideration of the Petition of Silas Pearse (presented on the 17th of August), complaining of the conduct of Government, in February last, in relation to a contract for the supply of limestone to the Breakwater at Plymouth, should be referred to a Select Committee.
 Mr. Warburton  conceived the objection of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin to the question of the hon. and gallant Officer related to the words "that being the principal object of appointing the committee."
 Mr. Warburton  said, it would be better first to ascertain, whether the witness would persevere in his refusal to give up the document; and, if so, then the House could consider how it should proceed under the circumstances.
 Mr. Warburton : Do you still persevere in your refusal to produce the book?
 Mr. Warburton : Where is the book?
 Mr. Warburton : Is the book under lock and key?—Yes.
 The Speaker  said, that nothing could be more disorderly than for a Member to state that Members had obtained seats in that House by the false swearing of their friends.
 The Speaker  addressed him as follows:—It is my duty to inform you that this House is of opinion that you should produce the book which has been alluded to in your evidence, and which you declined to produce before the Committee. Without adverting to the foundations for that which you considered as a point of honour obligatory on yourself, I am confident that
 697
 The Speaker — Do you hold any and what office connected with the Orange Lodges of England and Ireland? Yes, I hold an office connected with the Orange Lodges of England.
 Mr. Freshfield  corroborated the statement of the right hon. Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Shaw), that the witness had not at first refused to produce such part of the letters as related to the subject of military lodges, but that afterwards, considering that a sort of threat was held out to him, upon the point of producing those relating to Orange Lodges generally, he had felt bound, consulting his honour as a military man to refuse. A Court of law had no authority whatever to force a witness to produce documents. If he refused to produce them, he might be personally punished, but the Court had no means of reaching the documents themselves.
 Mr. Leader  denied, that any person on that side of the House was actuated by motives of revenge, and did not think, it becoming in a Judge to impute any such.
 Mr. Leader  read an extract from the evidence of Colonel Fairman, given before the Committee, to show, that Colonel Fairman had obstinately refused to yield to the wishes of the Committee.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that with regard to the consistency of Colonel Fairman's answers, there was no doubt whatever. The question was, should he or should he not give up the book?
 Mr. Hume  begged to inform the witness that he had already read the whole of the questions and answers relating to his refusal to produce any part of this book except that which related to the military portion of the inquiry.
 Mr. Hume  considered the inquiry to be much broader than the hon. and gallant Member seemed to suppose, for it was not limited to anything specific, but included the whole of the Orange institutions in Great Britain.
 Mr. Hume  would state exactly how the evidence before the Committee stood. The witness admitted that the book contained the copies of letters connected with the general question of Orange Societies, and when the Committee said that they were anxious to have all the information it contained before them, he then offered to furnish them with extracts from it, of all matters relating to the army, provided they would limit their demand to that. Of
 679
 Mr. Hume  seconded the motion. The House ought to know that the witness having been called before the Committee a second time, was told that they were informed the book had been recently seen in his possession, and it was hoped he would not object to produce it. The witness, however, did refuse to produce it, alleging as his reason that it contained letters from Lord Sidmouth and a number of great men among whom was the King of Spain. With the King of Spain of course the Committee had nothing to do.
 Mr. Hume  expressed his surprise that when the malversation of a public functionary was the question to be submitted to the consideration of the proposed Committee, the noble Lord opposite (Lord Ashley), during whose continuance in
 698
 Mr. Hume , in moving that Lieutenant-Colonel Fairman be called to the Bar, wished to put the House in possession of the reasons which induced the Committee on Orange Lodgesin Great Britain to adopt the course it had taken in this instance. Having seen a letter-book containing the correspondence of Colonel Fairman, deputy Grand Treasurer and Secretary of the Orange Institution of Great Britain, which correspondence came down to March, 1833, the Committee found some letters of an important nature, that appeared to have been answered at a period subsequent to the last date contained in the letter-book. On being asked by the Committee whether he had not another letter-book, coming down to a later period, Colonel Fairman admitted that he had, but declined to produce it, on the ground that it contained communications having reference not only to the affairs of the Orange Institution, but also to private matters. The witness being then required to produce the book, and read such portions of it only as related to the Orange Institution, he finally refused to do so. The hon. Member proceeded to read extracts from the evidence of Colonel Fairman before the Committee, from which it appeared that the witness kept a letter-book containing communications respecting Orange Lodges, but he objected to produce it. It was exclusively his own, and he never laid it before the Grand Lodge. He considered himself perfectly warranted in keeping its contents secret. He admitted that he might have corresponded with persons who held Orange Lodges in the army in different parts of the world; such correspondence would appear in the letter-book. The book also contained a great number of private letters, and he objected to produce them. There were letters from himself to Lord Kenyon, which he considered private and confidential, although they might partly relate to the affairs of the Orange Institution. He was Deputy Grand Secretary to the Institution, and Lord Kenyon was
 676
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  would support the Amendment, which was the only fair and expedient proposition to adopt. He was utterly amazed at the proposition laid down by the learned Gentleman opposite. Surely no Court of Justice could compel a man to reveal what was private, or personal to himself, the question was one of contempt. Now, it was the practice in the case of contempt of a Court of Law to attach the party. The party was then to be heard on his affidavit against the attachment, and was allowed to show cause. But was that rule observed in the present instance? In fact every rule of a Court of justice was positively laughed at in the present discussion. No Gentleman in that House could take it upon him to say that if a gentleman of untarnished character declared that the book contained private matter he was guilty
 695
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  confessed he was rather surprised at the course of objection which had been taken by the hon. and learned Gentleman on the present occasion. That hon. and learned Gentleman did not think this particular clause at all necessary when he contrived and brought forward the original Bill. It went through that House without it, and in another place this objectionable clause was inserted. He had, therefore, the authority of the hon. and learned Gentleman himself in favour of the Bill without this clause. He could not think it fair or right to proceed against Irish estates, as if they were situated in England. The hon. and learned Gentleman said it would be a breach of faith towards those who had come under the act to strike out this particular section; but it was expressly provided that its repeal should have no retrospective bearing. Those parties would not in the slightest degree be affected by it, because it was only to have a prospective operation. He considered that a sufficient answer to such an objection. The consequence of being obliged to proceed according to the 9th section, as if the lands were in an English county, would be, that the suit must be conducted agreeably to the law of England; but although, with respect to registry, the English court might proceed in the same manner as the Irish in questions of contract, as to matters that were transitory, he never heard that
 709
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  did not rise for the purpose of opposing the second reading of the Bill, but he considered he should be guilty of a dereliction of duty, as a Law Officer of the Crown in Ireland, were he to permit the observations which fell from the lion, and learned Member for Dublin, with reference to the judges of the land in that country, to pass without his rising in his place to repel imputations which were at once calumnious and unfounded. It did appear to him to be a matter fraught with incalculable mischief to the administration of justice in Ireland to permit such reflections to be made without meeting on the instant the most unqualified contradiction; and he owned he felt great disappointment that his hon. and learned Friend, the Solicitor-General for Ireland (Mr. O'Loghlen) holding as he did the high office of legal adviser to the Crown, should not have vindicated the judges of the land from the foul aspersions which had been cast upon them by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, but should have maintained a total silence on the subject. He felt it his duty to state, that the judges in Ireland were as upright and honourable men as ever graced the bench in any country, and were quite incapable of being influenced in their conduct by political partizanship. He certainly did think that nothing could be more calculated to prejudice the administration of justice in Ireland, than attacks such as they had that night heard upon the Judges, made in the face of the nation, and especially in the presence of the Ministers and Law Officers of the Crown. With respect to the Assistant-Barristers in Ireland, he must say, that as a class they were men of great learning and ability, and of rank and character in their profession. In his judgment, they were more competent to perform the duties which were to be taken from them by the present Bill, than the occasional nominees of the Government were likely to prove. It was too much to be feared that the Government of the day would select for the performance of this duty, if not political partizans, at least individuals recommended to their notice by those who were the political partizans and supporters of their Administration; and he (Mr. Jackson) had little difficulty in imagining from whom the noble Lord (Morpeth) who was a stranger in Ireland, would receive suggestions and recommend-
 706
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  moved the order of the day for the House going into Committee on the Landed Securities' Bill.
 By Mr. Sergeant Jackson : Does the book already produced to the Committee belong to you or to the Orange Society?—That book I found in the office when I entered it. I never had any control over it. But my own book I consider as my own private document.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  thought it but fair to the gallant Colonel that the answers which he had given before the Committee should be read to him. It would not be right to endeavour to convict him of giving answers before the House contradictory to those given before the Committee. If the witness were proved to be guilty of contempt he should be punished for it.
 Mr. Sergeant O'Loghlen  said, if any proposal were made to repeal the whole act, he would most certainly support it; but the proposition now was of a different kind, and went to continue an act to enable English trustees to lend money on land in Ireland, the words of the trust being "to lend on real security in England and Wales." Now, he did not see how they could fairly continue that act without some provision for enforcing the payment of the money in England. He did not object to go into Committee, but it would be much better to propose that the act altogether be repealed, except as to contracts already made.
 Mr. Sergeant O'Loghlen  moved the Order of the Day for the Second Reading of this Bill, and the order having been read, he moved that the Bill be read a second time.
 Mr. Sergeant O'Loghlen  said, in framing the Bill, it was his anxious desire to render it an effective Measure, and was desirous even now to receive suggestions calculated to effect that purpose. With respect to the 9th Clause, he did not feel inclined to persevere in maintaining it in the Bill, provided the general feeling of the Irish Members was opposed to it. He thought, as to the appointment of the barristers being vested in the Crown in Ireland, that was the proper course, inasmuch as there was no appeal to the judges in England, whereas the Bill proposed to give an appeal in Ireland. He denied that the counties would be taxed 300 l. l. l. 705
 Mr. Methuen  said, he did not think that the hon. and learned Member meant seriously to impute revengeful feelings to others.
 Mr. Borthwick : Suppose the date of the first entry in the book to be 1835, is there entered in it all your official correspondence from the period?—Certainly not, by a great deal. Borthwick:
 By Mr. Borthwick : Are you obliged, by any law of the Orange Institutions, to produce the private book which you have declined submitting to the inspection of the Committee?—No.
 Mr. Sheil  said, that one principal fact had been omitted, and that was that a book was produced purporting to contain the correspondence of the Orange Lodges down to the month of March, 1833. The book now called for contained the continuation of that correspondence. In the book produced was a letter which proved the establishment of Orange Lodges in the army. In that letter the following passage occurred—"I am aware that there are great objections to it, and I would advise
 680
 Mr. Sheil : I beg to ask the witness whether part of that book is not in the handwriting of the Deputy Secretary of the Orange Lodge?—No doubt about it.
 Mr. Wakley  wished, upon the subject of the hon. and learned Gentleman's last observation, that the Court had no power to compel the production of documents, to state a case somewhat in point—that of the Dorchester labourers. Those men were taken before a Magistrate—they were sent to gaol and searched—their keys were taken from them—a constable was sent to their houses—their boxes were opened, their papers were taken out of them; and the papers so taken furnished the ground of the allegations against them. Now, really, if they were to have justice at all, let them have evenhanded justice—and let not an Orange Society, because it was headed by a Duke, have a preference over a secret society, which was headed by a village labourer.
 Mr. William Smith O'Brien  said though opposed to Orange and other secret Societies, yet he could not, as an honest man, sanction the inquisitorial and tyrannical precedent that the original Motion would lay down.
 Sir George Grey  could not but regret that such a petition should have been presented. If the allegations of it were true, then there could be no doubt that Mr. Bolton had deviated from the strict path of his duty. With respect to the Juries, he thought Mr. Bolton had acted very properly, for in place of having a list of only eighteen, taken alphabetically, he had instituted a system by which forty-eight names were now taken in the same manner as in this country. With respect to the allegation with regard to the schools, Mr. Bolton, who was now in this country, assured him that all was untrue, because, though he had lent the Judge's chambers for a meeting with respect to them, it was one to which the Catholic Bishop was invited, and had nothing at all sectarian in it. With regard to the allegation of his having acted wrong in the libel case, he (Sir G. Grey) had no doubt that he had acted strictly legally; but the matter had been referred to the Attorney and Solicitor-General in this country, and they reported that though the Judge was strictly legal in his sentence for contempt, yet the practice for many years in the Courts of this country was against him, and the sentence, under their opinion, was remitted.
 Captain Pechell  was old enough to recollect that on one occasion Mr. J. Wilson Croker turned round on Sir Joseph Yorke, and declared that he, as Secretary, was only the servant of the Admiralty. He did not think, then, that it was any ground for refusing the appointment of the Committee that the Secretary to the Admiralty was absent in Ireland, when the Lords of the Admiralty must be prepared to meet the charges intended to be brought against them.
 Sir John Tyrell  observed that he had not intended to cast any insinuation upon the Committee in any observations which he had made. If the witness refused to produce the book in question, as he hoped he would not, he for one should desire to make him produce it; but he believed that the witness had objected to the production of it under an impression that a threat had been held out to him.
 Sir Robert Inglis  moved an Amendment to the effect that only such portions of the document in question should be produced as related to the subject matter of the inquiry.
 Sir Robert Inglis  considered the request of Colonel Fairman so fair and reasonable that he must move that the shorthand writer be ordered to read over in his presence the notes which he had taken of the evidence.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, it was right that the witness should know what was the charge against him. He should persist in his Motion, that the questions and answers be read over to Colonel Fairman.
 Viscount Howick  said, the question before them—their object in calling the witness before the Bar of the House—was to ascertain whether he would or would not answer certain questions put to him by the Committee, and which were thought necessary to assist their inquiry; and if he
 683
 Mr. Francis Baring  said, that no one could be more anxious than he was that the whole transaction referred to by the hon. Member should be investigated from the beginning to the end, and he would say, on the part of his noble Friend, over whom the hon. Gentleman seemed to suspect that the Government would throw "the broad shield of protection," but
 751 primâ facie 752 753
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had not addressed the House before, because he was quite willing to let the case stand upon the speeches of his hon. Friend the Secretary for the Treasury, and his hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth, who had stated the whole of the case, and had completely met the assertions of the hon. Member for Berkshire. On a former occasion he had objected to this inquiry on the ground that such an inquiry had never been asked before; but this he would say, that if the hon. Gentleman would bring any kind of charge against the department with which he was connected, so far from resisting such an inquiry, on a future occasion, he should be most anxious that the whole of the proceedings,  quoad 759 l. 760 d. d. 761
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would not be drawn into irregular discussion; but, as it was the fashion, in and out of doors, with particular parties to attribute unfeelingness to the Government regarding agriculture, he must complain that the hon. Member, after all that had passed, lent himself to such opinions. On the hustings many Members had made vehement protestations on this subject—he did not say that the hon. Member had done so; and yet a good many of those vehement advocates of the repeal of the Malt Tax, when the question was brought on, had voted against that repeal. After that he thought it was rather hard thus to attack the Government. He maintained that there could not be relief to manufactures without benefiting agriculture. It was probable that the moment this Bill passed there would be many persons taken off the roads who were now engaged in breaking stones. In one case forty labourers would be thus released. Would not taking them off the rates be of any benefit to agriculture? If the hon. Member desired to see the reasons for opposing the repeal of the Malt Tax fully stated, he would refer him to the speech of the right hon. Member for Tamworth (Sir R. Peel) on that occasion.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the Clause was a most useful one, and the Bill could not go on without it. If the nomination of the barristers were given to the Judges, and the appeal from the decisions of the barristers likewise to the Judges, the Judge would be placed in this ludicrous position,—first, the Judge was to appoint the barrister on the score of his abilities; and then the Judge was to decide against him,
 768 769
 Mr. Ruthven  thought the hon. and learned Gentleman had said more in favour of the Clause, as it now stood, than against it. It was surely better that each man should have his own particular business assigned him, than that he should be required to be a Jack-of-all-trades, which would be the effect of the Amendment.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that having expressed an opinion yesterday that it was
 772
 Mr. Wallace  thought this person should be compelled to give up the book. The Committee had learnt from the Assistant-Secretary, that all the letters connected with Orange affairs began in a particular way. There could be no difficulty, therefore, in selecting them. This individual had also in his possession a large portion of the recent correspondence of the Orange Institution. He was sorry to vote for depriving Colonel Fairman of his liberty, but it was impossible to refrain from doing so under the circumstances of the case. He would move, if no other Member of greater experience did so, that the Sergeant-at-Arms proceed to Col. Fairman's residence and search for this book.
 Mr. Pryme  was surprised at the doctrine laid down by the hon. and learned Member for Bradford. It was a thing of every-day notoriety, that witnesses in
 781 subpœna duce tecum.
 The Solicitor-General  said, that he thought the House would do well as far as possible to keep within the ordinary course of tribunals with respect to witnesses, and the production of evidence; and he believed that it was the general practice not to enforce the production of books or documents against the inclination of the parties. At the same time, he would admit that there certainly might, and
 783 salus populi suprema lex
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he was not going to controvert the position that these articles applied to the speech of the hon. Gentlemen—he would take higher ground. He would appeal to the hon. Gentlemen who were themselves concerned in this matter, and ask them whether, on the whole, they thought that it was necessary to their own vindication, or consistent with their duty as Members of Parliament, to proceed any further? They lived in times of great excitement. The House well knew, that scarcely a night passed in which some one hon. Member or another in the debate within the walls of this House was not carried beyond the strict rules of order and propriety. The excitement which existed in the House extended far beyond it. And
 787 788
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he must really admire the heroism of the hon. Gentlemen opposite in despising the attacks upon them yet calling for punishment at the same time. This was true magnanimity. If they wished his side of the House to believe that they did not mind these attacks, that they did not deserve them, then he would say that they did not believe them, and ought not that to satisfy them? Aye, but it seemed they wanted exculpation first and vengeance after. He hoped the  Post Post Post Evening Mail Packet, Post Post Post 791 Evening Post
 Mr. Pryme  could not agree in the opinions just expressed as to the contradictory nature of the Clause. What was more common than to forbid a thing for the future, but to say they would not interfere with those, who, either in carelessness or ignorance, had hitherto transgressed? At present, marriages were continually contracted, which were productive of the greatest inconvenience and confusion, and he could not agree with his hon. Friend the Member for Shaftesbury, (Mr. Poulter) that such marriages, for instance of a man with his wife's sister, ought to be permitted. If it was intended to introduce next Session a measure of mitigation, there might be some reason for postponing the Clause, but he could not agree to any alteration in the degrees of consanguinity now existing, and he considered there would be no inconsistency in allowing the second Clause to remain in the Bill.
 Dr. Nichol  considered it perfectly consistent to declare marriages already consummated, and marriages, the parties to which were dead, to be valid; and at the same time to make all future similar marriages void. He should have supported the Bill in its original form, and he considered that the Amendment of the hon. Member for Shaftesbury had reduced it to a perfect absurdity.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought that the whole proceedings had been irregular from first to last. As long as it was a matter of explanation between the Members of the Committee he did not like to interfere, but now he felt bound to protest against the greater portion of the discussion. He thought if there was one matter more than another, they ought to be cautious of interfering with, it was with the proceedings of a Committee of Inquiry then sitting—nothing could be more disorderly than to do so while the Committee was sitting. He was in hopes that after the question had been put to the Chair, the discussion would have terminated; since then nine-tenths of it
 801
 Mr. Vesey  rose to defend the conduct of the assistant-barristers in Ireland. It was his conviction, notwithstanding the attack made upon them by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, that they had always given their decisions in the most impartial manner. Never having heard any specific charge brought forward against any of the assistant-barristers, with the exception of the one which had just been made, and which he hoped had been proved to be totally and completely futile; and believing that they had most conscientiously, impartially, and efficiently discharged their duties as revising-barristers,—and thinking that the revision of the registry could not by any possibility be placed in better hands than theirs,—he would give his cordial support to the Amendment proposed by his hon. Friend.
 Lord Granville Somerset  said, he should like to know if it were the intention of Ministers to oppose the appointment of this Committee. For his part, he thought that it was a subject well deserving the attention of Parliament, especially when so large a sum of money was to be advanced under the authority of an Act of Parliament. He greatly doubted the expediency of advancing 246,000 l. 758 l. l.
 Lord John Russell  had no hesitation in saying, that he thought the House had the power to seize the papers of individuals; but it was only on great and extraordinary occasions that it ought to use that power. And he would add, he believed it was a power which would never be lost to the House except by the misuse of it. No doubt that in the South-Sea case the House properly exercised the power when it gave an order for the papers of several individuals to be seized; on that occasion the House disposed of estates by an Act of Parliament, which was considered a penal act. That was a great occasion calling for an extraordinary remedy. With respect to the other case, his hon. Friend the Member for Bridport, in bringing it forward, admitted, with his usual candour, that in one particular it did not apply to the case now before them. The individual there stated his readiness to produce the paper before the Committee. Having been found guilty, however, of prevarication, the House did not choose to trust him on his simple promise to go to his home to fetch the note, but ordered him into custody, and sent the Sergeant-at-Arms with him to his lodgings in order that he might give it to the Sergeant-at-Arms, who was to produce it to the House. If they exercised the power in this case,
 782
 Lord John Russell  suggested to his hon. Friend, that unless it was intended to act on this Motion, it would be inconvenient to propose it. The House should take care to act with due caution in a case of this kind, and he felt that it would be very inconvenient if this motion was made and discussed, and not agreed to. He agreed with his hon. Friend, that there was no doubt as to the power of the House in cases of this kind. If his hon. Friend did not press the House to a Vote on his motion, and it was withdrawn, it might lead to inconvenience.
 Colonel Perceval  said his objections to this Clause were rather increased than diminished, since he last addressed the House upon the subject. It was his intention to move such Amendments in the Clause, as would cure the defects in the present fictitious registries of Ireland. He thought all the registries should be reopened before the registering-barristers.
 Colonel Perceval  said, the question was at present one of breach of privilege, as it referred to what occurred in the House; and, as such, the House ought to deal with it. As to the vile calumnious paragraphs about him, and as to the parties who furnished them, he had the greatest contempt for them. He knew the quarters from which these slanders flowed, and he was little hurt by them as an individual; but as a Member of Parliament, he felt called upon to assert its dignity. If the Government authorities—and this paper was the reputed organ of the Government, and the vehicle for the spleen and vindictiveness of its underlings—called him liar, traitor, and what not, he cared but little. This he did not say with any view to offend the Members of the Government, for he entertained for them individually great respect. But the  Dublin Evening Post
 Colonel Perceval  said: The noble Lord must admit, that to give the appointment of the revising-barristers to the Government, was going out of the course adopted in England, and was not carrying out the principle laid down in the preamble of the Bill. In England the Judges appointed the barristers; but it was proposed that in Ireland they should not do so. Why was this to be? Was it because certain persons rose up in that House and attacked the Judges of the land, and most unjustly charged those learned personages with being political partisans? Was it because the Government was obliged to succumb to those hon. Members? Was it for these reasons, he would ask, that the attacks were permitted which, without the apparent sanction of the Government, would have been only worthless and contemptible? The country could not look with confidence to these appointments, unless they rested with the Judges. He therefore objected to the Clause, as being calculated only to please a certain party in that House, and to cast reflections upon the assistant-barristers. He agreed with his hon. Friend, the Member for Donegal, that it would be better to have the Clause omitted. The Clause appeared to him to be a perfect job; placing at the disposal of Government eleven places of 300 l. 766
 Mr. Hawes  must beg to recall the attention of the House to the charges which the hon. Gentleman had made in the former discussion on this subject, and he would demand of him, in the face of the House and the country, to justify those charges now. He quoted from the hon. Gentleman's speech, as given in  The Times l., 754 l.? l. Chancellor of the Exchequer: 755 The Times, The Times l. 756 l., 757
 Mr. Hawes  thought the course recommended by the hon. Member for Middlesex justifiable under the circumstances.
 Mr. Hawes  explained, that he had not said, that the production of the book in question was of no importance to the inquiry before the Committee. On the contrary, he had stated, that he believed the contents of the book to be highly important.
 Mr. Charles Buller  said, begging the noble Lord's pardon, he would declare that the present Question, respecting Orange Lodges, was of much greater importance than any question relating to a set of miserable speculators. The evidence showed that a regular conspiracy had been organized in the civil and military institutions of the empire—an execrable conspiracy. He admitted he had used too strong a term, and apologized for it; but he would say that a most dangerous conspiracy existed, which gave rise to the most abominable party and religious feelings. Captain Sandon, it was true, consented to give up the note, but he did so in a fright, and the order the House made was not conditional; it was a simple order that the Sergeant-at-Arms should go and seize the papers.
 Mr. Jephson  agreed with his right hon. Friend (Mr. Shaw) as to the necessity of revising the registry. He knew it as a fact that persons who had been watched at one Sessions, for the purpose of having their claims objected to—had gone to another Sessions forty miles off, and got registered. In his opinion, the effect of the present Clause would be not merely to perpetuate those fictitious voters for five years, but for the lives of the parties. He would appeal to the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Callaghan) if it were not the fact that a number of persons in Cork had been registered as ten-pound voters whose houses had only been valued at five pounds. He did not wish by any means to harass the voters, but he thought justice demanded that the registries should be purified.
 Mr. Callaghan  hoped that the noble Lord (Morpeth) would not give way on the present Question, as he was convinced that if a revision of the registry were granted, there would be no termination to it. A bar of lawyers would be employed to object to every voter, and, on the whole, the investigation would be one of the most vexatious nature. The registry for Cork, under the Reform Bill, lasted for
 775
 Mr. Callaghan  said, it was quite true that all houses rated, under the private Act alluded to at 5 l., l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Dominick Browne  said, he did not often agree with the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Shaw), but he thought the suggestion made by him was founded in justice, and ought to be acceded to. He thought it unfair to shut out an appeal to the House of Commons against those who had been improperly registered for the last three years, without giving an appeal somewhere. He could state, of his own knowledge, having been Chairman of the county Galway Election Committee, that voters to a great extent had been fraudulently made—and he instanced some cases in his own county of a similar nature.
 Mr. Ronayne  insisted that assistant-barristers in Ireland were influenced by political partialities. Their conduct, indeed, in registering voters was unjust in the extreme, The Act of Parliament made it imperative upon the barrister to call over the list of persons claiming to register, three times. The obvious meaning of that was, that the claimants should have an opportunity of answering to their names. But he knew an instance where an assistant-barrister called the list over three times before eleven o'clock on the first day of the registry, and those who happened not to be present were disfranchised. He should feel it his duty to vote against the Amendment.
 Mr. Fitzstephen French  wished to know the reason of five years being introduced, as the necessary standing of a barrister to be appointed under this act; in England no time was required—a revising barrister might be appointed the day after he was called to the bar; and in Ireland, whenever it had been deemed expedient, to demand a qualification of a certain number of years standing, six had been the number always required; it had been so for the barristers appointed to register under the Reform Bill—it was so for the assistant-barristers, and indeed all other legal appointments.
 Mr. Fitzstephen French  was not a little surprised at the change of opinion in the right hon. and learned Gentleman opposite; still more so, at that of the hon. Member for Dublin, who had yesterday so forcibly spoken against that Clause, and whose great experience in matters of this sort would, he thought, have prevented his adopting an opinion to be in a few hours so hastily abandoned. The only argument made use of was, that this power of appeal might be vexatiously used; but if Gentlemen would turn to the 13th section, they would see that was provided against by the power vested in the barrister—of giving costs to the amount of forty shillings. Really, from what had fallen from the right hon. the Solicitor-General (for Ireland) the evening before, when Members on both sides of the House were unanimous in calling for an alteration of this Clause, he supposed that the hon. and learned Gentleman had risen for the purpose of moving the omission of the words which had been so universally condemned; for his own part, he had no hesitation in
 774
 Mr. Shaw  had been greatly surprised the night before at the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. O'Connell) agreeing in the objection—the very first objection made to this Clause—that its effect would be to render valid all the fraudulent voters which had been improperly admitted on the registry in Ireland—and he did not wonder that the hon. Gentleman had since changed his mind. The impression in Ireland was, that this was the real motive of those who urged the present Bill, and he (Mr. Shaw) should suspect it, if they refused to make the obviously fair Amendment in this Clause which he meant to propose, It was not to open all the registries, but merely to apply the very principle of the Bill itself, as admitted by its supporters. That principle was, to give an appeal from the revising barristers to the judge, both in the case of improper admission and rejection, and to let that be final. He did not object to that principle, but he required that it should be applied as well to votes that had been as those that might be hereafter improperly admitted, and he asked, in common justice, that there should be a power in the case of all votes which had been already improperly admitted, to appeal to the Judge before they were permanently fixed on the registry. The right hon. Member moved an Amendment to the effect of his speech.
 Mr. Shaw  said, it having been decided that the book should be given up, Colonel Fairman was, in his opinion, bound to obey the order of the House, but he hoped the House would not attempt to exercise such a power as to send to the witness's private residence to seize the book. The better course would be for them to proceed against him for his refusal to obey the order of the House.
 Mr. Shaw : Felt real pain at the necessity cast upon him in consequence of the gratuitous and undistinguishing slander of all those in authority in Ireland, poured forth, as usual, by the hon. and learned Member (Mr. O'Connell), to interrupt the detail of business,—which he had hoped the House would have been allowed to attend to in Committee, by making some reply to the charge. How plainly did such conduct of the hon. and learned Gentleman prove, that to remove from the assistant-barristers the duty of the revision of voters, which he (Mr. Shaw) was anxious to retain in their hands, would fail altogether to prevent the imputations which were so unsparingly, and without the slightest regard to facts, heaped upon the highest and most distinguished of the superior Judges—men who, in truth, were above all suspicion in their character and conduct; but not a whit the securer on that account from the virulent attacks of the hon. and learned Member. To be sure, Judges in Ireland, as well as elsewhere, must have sons and sons-in-law; and, were they to be debarred from being candidates for Parliament, or shut out from any other just object of ambition; or, to have such gross and disgusting charges made against any Judge connected with them? The Judge alluded to by the hon. Member, in his insinuation as to the Dublin election, was
 770
 Mr. Shaw  did not doubt that such was the desire of the assistant-barristers, and it was a very natural one, as well as a strong proof of the absurdity of the charge against them—that they desired to promote particular political interests by their manner of registering. The question was, what course would be most advantageous for the public? Clearly, to retain as revising-barristers, that most estimable body of men, the assistant-barristers, whose station and character placed them above real suspicion; though, from what occurred daily in that House, it was plain that no station or character could save any public functionary in Ireland from the most base and slanderous imputations.
 Mr. Robinson  expressed regret that, as it was sought to afford relief to this particular branch of manufacture, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not reduced the duty altogether; for by that course there would have been no necessity to keep up the machinery for collecting a small rate of duty.
 Mr. Aglionby  hoped that his hon. Friend, the Member for Bridport, would persist in moving that the book be sent for. After so many precedents, he thought that the House ought not to hesitate as to the course to be pursued.
 Mr. Aglionby , who thought that those matters had no connexion with the conduct of the present Committee.
 Mr. Aglionby  remonstrated against the vagueness of the charges brought by the right hon. Baronet against the Committee, and called upon him for a particular accusation.
 Mr. Aglionby  still thought it necessary to call on the right hon. Gentleman opposite, who had designated the Committee as a democratic star chamber, and charged it with tyrannous conduct, to state one fact which could justify such a charge. He, as a Member of that Committee, would be ready to defend it.
 Mr. Aglionby  appealed to the House, whether the circumstances stated by the right hon. Gentleman warranted the use of such language as the right hon. Gentleman had applied to the Committee? It surely did not become those who desired to exclude strangers, and make the proceedings of the Committee perfectly secret, to accuse the Committee of being a Star-chamber. He hoped the time would come when the vote of Members of every Committee would be made public. He knew that he had never given a vote which he desired to conceal. He was willing to allow General Darling every facility to prepare his defence, and though the right hon. Gentleman might cease to attend the Committee, he (Mr. Aglionby) would continue to discharge his duty, and would ask the witnesses every question the answers to which were likely to be advantageous to General Darling. The hon. Member concluded by stating that the irons had been manufactured solely for the purpose of being exhibited as a model of the set placed on the soldiers Sudds and Thompson by General Darling's order.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  could not undertake to say what the hon. Member's motives were. He was bound to believe that the hon. Member had no motive but that of justice, although he certainly regretted that the irons had been introduced.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  repeated what he had already said, that when he made a Motion with a view of ascertaining what
 800
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, that he had designated the hon. Member as the person conducting the prosecution, because it was on his Motion that the Committee
 799
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, he only alluded to the subject in order to show what was the scope which the investigation was taking. The accusation against General Darling, in the cases of Sudds and Thomp-
 797
 Sir Henry Hardinge  regretted that the inquiry was not conducted with the harmony which was desirable. For his own part, he desired to appeal to the House and to the Chair to know whether the Committee was or was not a Committee of Inquiry, and whether it was not acting improperly in assuming much higher powers? If the powers attempted to be assumed by the Committee were granted, the liberty of the subject would be seriously endangered; and thinking that the proceedings of the Committee were most tyrannous, he objected to continuing his attendance, unless he received an assurance from the House, that the Select Committee appointed to inquire into the conduct of General Darling was not a Committee vested with judicial powers. In that Committee charges had been brought against General Darling, which were charges of murder or of manslaughter; the Court before which those charges were to be tried had been appointed by the hon. Member who conducted the prosecution; and the witnesses who were examined were not sworn. Under these circumstances he thought that justice could not be done. He must regard the Committee as the most democratical species of Star Chamber ever established, unless its functions were confined to the mere business of inquiry. When he first attended the Committee, he heard an hon. and learned Member, who possessed great weight in that House—he meant the hon. and learned Member for Dublin—state, when an hon. Friend of his (Sir Henry Hardinge's) moved that the Committee-room be cleared of strangers, that the Committee ought to be an open Committee, because it partook of the character of a criminal court, and had judicial
 796
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, he had made use of that term for the sake of brevity, and with no offensive intention.
 Mr. Henry Maxwell  felt as little annoyed as any other hon. Member at newspaper defamation; but when this attack was but a continuation of a series of the foulest and most malignant falsehoods, circulated all over Ireland for a month against his character and conduct—when he was charged with being a deliberate liar, with abetting treason—he, as a Member of that House, should fail in his duty, if he did not bring the matter before the House. It was the duly of Members to vindicate the character of the House, and he for one would do so, and persevere in his Motion.
 Mr. Henry Maxwell  rose to call the attention of the House to a breach of privilege of a very gross nature, which had been committed by the proprietors of the  Dublin Evening Post, 784 Dublin Evening Post, Dublin Evening Post 785
 Mr. Henry Maxwell  wished to observe, that two or three friends, with himself, as a deputation from an Orange Institution, had that morning waited upon Lieutenant-Colonel Fairman, to request him to comply with the wish of the House. That gentleman, however, said that he could not conscientiously comply with the desire of the House. He (Mr. Maxwell) regretted the determination that Colonel Fairman had come to, but felt bound to state what he had, in justice to the Gentlemen who were in the habit of acting with Colonel Fairman in common with the Orange institution.
 Mr. Warburton  said there could be no doubt as to the power of the House in cases of this kind. They had precedents that would fully justify them in adopting the course suggested by his hon. Friend, namely, causing a search for the book. This point was decided last night by the ease referred to by his hon. Friend the Member for Greenock, namely, when the Sergeant-at-Arms accompanied Captain Sandon to his lodgings to search there for papers having reference to the inquiry respecting the Duke of York. That case, however, differed in some respects from the present, for the person offered to go and fetch papers, and it was thought not right to let him go except in the custody of the Sergeant. This precedent was not so strong as one he had found in the Journals. He alluded to the proceedings adopted with regard to the Directors of the South-Sea Company in 1720. On the 23rd of January, 1720, the House ordered that all the papers of Mr. Robert Knight, the cashier of the Company, should be seized, and a deputation of Members was directed to proceed to his house and search. At the same time four Directors of the Company were expelled the House, and two Members were ordered to proceed and search their houses for papers, &c, connected with the South-Sea Company. These papers were then referred to the Committee of Secresy appointed to investigate the affairs of the Company. According to this principle there could be no doubt as to the power of the House or its right to send for persons, papers, and records. Again, when the debate took place as to what was to be done with respect to Captain Sandon, there appeared to be no manner of doubt as to the power of the House in this respect. He should propose that the House should adopt similar proceedings to those pursued in the cases he had mentioned, namely, that the Sergeant-at-Arms should accompany Colonel Fairman to his house, and search for the book. In order that
 779
 Mr. Warburton  was only anxious to raise a question on which the debate might turn, and to preserve the order of the proceedings of the House.
 Mr. Warburton , to give hon. Members an opportunity of delivering their opinions, would move that the House do now adjourn.
 Mr. Warburton  continued: He said that it was true, as the right hon. Gentleman had stated, that certain charges against General Darling had been drawn up, but that had been done entirely at the desire of such Members of the Committee as usually voted with the right hon. Gentleman opposite. With respect to the statement that the hon. Member for Tralee intended to employ a solicitor to assist him, he begged to inform the House that that intention was only formed after an expectation had been raised that General Darling would employ counsel.
 Mr. Warburton  thought that the right hon. and gallant Member ought in fairness, before charging the Committee with improper conduct, to have called for the production of the Minutes of their proceedings. The right hon. Gentleman said, he was induced to call the attention of the House to the subject, because he heard a certain observation made by the hon. Member for Dublin. Now, he did not think that the Committee, or that House, ought to be bound by every inconsiderate expression that might fall from any Member. He believed that the conduct of the Committee was guided solely by a desire to do what they considered their duty. He admitted that he had moved the previous question on the right hon. Gentleman's Motion, declaring the Committee to be simply a Committee of inquiry, because he thought that the Committee needed not to be told what their
 798
 Mr. Twiss  said, the article was headed "Orange Affairs—the Debate." He would read some further extracts from it, and hon. Members would then judge whether it referred to the House or not:—
 Mr. Twiss  said there was no question as to the first Clause. As to the second he begged the House to consider the present anomalous state of the law as to marriages. As the law now stood the marriages alluded to were not void, but only voidable; at the instance of any malicious person a suit could be instituted in the Ecclesiastical Court, and the marriage could be declared void. Now, under these circumstances the Legislature was driven to do one of two things, make the marriages absolutely void, or absolutely valid;
 794
 Mr. Twiss  said, that if the Committee were considered as a judicial tribunal, the presence of strangers was admissible; but if, as was asserted, it did not partake of that character, strangers were properly excluded. The object of excluding strangers was not to shelter the votes or proceedings of any Members of the Committee, but to prevent the case from being unjustly prejudiced. He complained that the Committee did not distinctly define its own character when called on to do so, but left the matters in doubt as to whether it was a judicial tribunal or not. He thought the proceedings of the Committee in this and other respects injurious to the privileges of the House and the best interests of the subject.
 The Speaker  said, that having been appealed to by the right hon. Baronet for his opinion, he was bound to say (as we understood the right hon. Gentleman), that the zeal of the Committee, and their anxiety efficiently to discharge the important duties intrusted to them, might, perhaps, have carried them somewhat out of the sphere of their duties. He hoped, therefore, that they would now proceed on the distinct understanding, that it was a Committee of Inquiry merely. The House itself had no judicial power such as that which had been adverted to, and therefore, could not delegate such a power. With respect to the exclusion of strangers, there could be no doubt that a Committee had as much right to order that exclusion as the House itself.
 The Speaker  said that he considered, in the view of the case expressed by the noble Lord, unless there was some urgent cause for the adoption of this mode of proceeding, it might be found to be attended with considerable inconvenience. There could be no doubt that when the House was engaged in an important investigation, and when impediments were thrown in the way of inquiry, that its powers were very great, and ought not to be curtailed. Unless, however, in cases of necessity, this power ought not to be exercised. He would submit to the hon. Member whether this would not be the best course to pursue in the present case.
 Mr. Hardy  said, that the precedent adverted to by the hon. Member for Bridport, namely, the case of the individuals who were implicated in the South Sea transactions, in 1720, did not apply to the present occasion. The individuals concerned in the former case were implicated in a charge of fraud, and in such a case the House might very properly be called upon to exercise its powers, for the purpose of producing the evidence of that fraud. But in the present case no such charge, no pretence of such a charge, existed. On the contrary, it was contended that the book demanded of the witness by the was proved not to be the property of, or devoted to the business of, the Orange Associations, but to contain in great part matters connected with the private affairs of the witness. Now, under such circumstances, he believed a Court of law would never oblige a witness to produce any book or document of the kind, though he believed that it would sanction the witness's having the book before him, in order to refresh his memory.
 Mr. Poulter  said, what he agreed to was the remediable part of the Bill, but he considered, that as they could not at this period of the Session deal satisfactorily with this important subject, they should leave the subsequent part of it open to deliberation in a future Session; he thought they had acted safely in striking out the Clause, leaving the rest of the Bill to operate.
 Mr. Poulter  said that, sorry as he was to make any objection to the Bill which might have the effect of putting an end to it, he could not allow the second Clause to pass, as he considered it directly inconsistent with the principle laid down in the first, it was also inconsistent with the promise of his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for the Tower Hamlets (Dr. Lushington) when he promised, that next Session, a Bill should be introduced for making certain marriages in future good and valid, for the Clause in question distinctly and finally condemned to all intents and purposes all such marriages as absolutely null and void. Upon that ground, and as the Amendment suggested by him the other night, viz., the excepting from the operation of that Clause the case of a man desiring to marry the sister of his deceased wife, had not been acceded to, he should move that Clause 2 of this Bill be struck out.
 Mr. Poulter  said they ought to legislate on correct principles and not insert a Clause wholly subversive of the principle laid down in the first Clause of the Bill.
 Mr. Walter  said, that after the assur-
 762
 Mr. Walter  said, that pursuant to the notice he had given, he would now rise to move as an Amendment on the first Order of the Day, the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the advance of public money which had been made to the Thames Tunnel Company. At nearly the close of such a long and wearisome Session, he was aware how difficult it must be to get the House to attend to fresh matter. As, however, he had no other object in view than to save the money of the public, which was the paramount duty of that House—as he was not himself to blame for the delay—and as the subject, moreover, was not one of very great difficulty, he hoped the House would afford him its attention during the short statement that he had to make to it. Having brought this transaction already under the consideration of the House, and having upon that occasion detailed at some length the grounds upon which he should move for this inquiry, it would not be necessary for him to go into those details again, and he could, therefore, save the time of the House. On the former occasion he had moved, in addition to the Treasury minute which had been laid on the Table, for copies of the Reports of professional men, if any such had been made, before the money had been granted,
 747 748 l. 749 750 l.
 Mr. Hume  would act impartially between both sides of the House. For himself, he had been the subject of constant attack these twenty years, yet he never minded it. When the gallant Admiral (Sir Edward Codrington) was assailed in the most violent manner by a morning paper he brought forward the matter, and, having vindicated himself
 789
 Mr. Hume  said, he could not see that there was a single word in it about anything which took place within that House.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that it was quite clear that the hon. Member for Bradford had not listened to the previous discussion on this subject. If the hon. Member had done so, he would have been aware that the House had yesterday come to the resolution that the book should be produced. It was not a private book, because it was well known to contain matters relating to the Orange Society. The witness was asked twenty times to produce the book, and read those parts from it which related to the Orange Institution, and he pertinaciously refused to do so. The witness also admitted that this book was the only record of the transactions of the Society for a certain period. If the House thought fit that the inquiry should stop, of course it could make a virtual order to that effect, by allowing this book to be withheld.
 Mr. Hume  said, that in the first paper which had been read, there was no allusion made to the House of Commons, and therefore it could not be considered a fit subject on which to raise a breach of privilege.
 Mr. Hume  said, he had been waiting to see whether the House would have courage enough to support its Committee. If his hon. Friend would withdraw his motion for an adjournment, he would now give notice that he would make a motion tomorrow, the object of which would be to obtain possession of the book.
 Mr. Hume  remarked that every indulgence had been shown to the witness by the Committee, and he had repeatedly been urged to produce the book.
 Mr. Hume  submitted to the House
 778
 Mr. Hume  appeared at the Bar, and stated that he was directed to report to the House from the Select Committee appointed to inquire into the nature and constitution of Orange Lodges in Great Britain, that Lieutenant-Colonel Fairman, Deputy Grand Treasurer and Deputy Grand Secretary of the Orange Institution of Great Britain, had that morning appeared
 777
 Mr. Hume  observed, that there was but one course to pursue, after the course so pertinaciouly persisted in by Lieutenant-Colonel Fairman—namely, that he should he committed to Newgate for a breach of privilege of the House. He concluded with moving "That Lieutenant-Colonel Fairman had been guilty of a breach of the privileges of the House."
 Mr. Jackson  expressed a similar opinion; and added that the Deputy Grand Secretary of the Orange Institutions in Ireland had produced a book before the Committee up stairs, in which there were some entries respecting that institution, although it was a private document. He was sorry that Colonel Fairman did not follow this example.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, that it appeared to him that the noble Lord was not taking a common sense view of the Amendment proposed by his right hon. Friend (Mr. Shaw). It was agreed on all hands that a number of persons had been improperly placed on the registry, and the question was, were they to be permitted to
 773
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  possessed some
 776
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, the article contained a direct allusion to what had been said by hon. Members in that House. He would ask the Clerk to read the paragraph again, in order to satisfy the hon. Member for Middlesex on this point.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said: The hon. and learned Gentleman who had last addressed the Committee, had brought an unfounded charge of partiality against the assistant-barristers, as well as a most unjust accusation against an individual. The mode prescribed by the Reform Act, with respect to calling over the lists, was the mode adopted in the case the hon. Member had adverted to. The Reform Bill made it imperative on the barrister to go through the registry before he entered upon any other business; and the charge, therefore, of the hon. and learned Member for Clonmel resolved itself into this, that the barrister did not drive a coach-and-six through an Act of Parliament. Nothing could be more impolitic than to register voters whenever they chose to appear; for they would come forward when those who had objections to urge against their claims were absent. He should vote for the Amendment, because he saw no reason why a new machinery should be created when competent machinery already existed. The Solicitor-General for Ireland
 767
 Mr. Pease  objected to the Clause as contradicting every principle, whether of law or of humanity, by punishing the children for the offences of the parents. If they sanctioned the principle that those marriages were invalid, they should alter the law altogether: the Clause was wholly inconsistent and contradictory, and he should vote against it.
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  understood that during his absence from the House, the right hon. Gentleman opposite had designated him as the Member conducting the prosecution against General Darling. He had, on a former occasion, disclaimed all intention of assuming such a character, and he therefore trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would withdraw the expression.
 Mr. M. O'Connell  thought that he might, with greater propriety, be designated as the Member conducting the inquiry. He understood that the right hon. Gentleman had also alluded to a set of irons, which, at his suggestion, had been manufactured. Did the right hon. Gentleman mean to say, that in procuring those irons he had been actuated by an improper motive?
 Mr. Sergeant O'Loghlen  objected to opening the registry generally in Ireland. This would put all the voters in Ireland to very unnecessary trouble and expense, which ought to be avoided, if possible. There might be, and he had no doubt there were persons improperly placed on the registry; but then, it must be remembered, that there were as many for one party as another—and, in his opinion, neither party would gain by a general revision. Balancing the inconveniences that would arise on both sides, he was of opinion that it would be better to leave the matter as it was.
 Mr. Sergeant O'Loghlen  could assure the hon. Baronet, that there existed no intention to throw any imputation upon the assistant-barristers. It was the wish of the great majority of the assistant-barristers that they should be relieved from the onerous duties imposed upon them since the passing of the Reform Bill.
 Mr. Sergeant O'Loghlen  contended that the crown ought to have the appointment, and quoted from a speech made by Sir R. Peel in 1829, to show that the right hon. Baronet had at that period contended for the same principle.
 Mr. More O'Ferrall  said it was impossible that the assistant-barristers should perform the duties prescribed by the Bill, and therefore it was necessary that revising-barristers should be appointed. He could corroborate the statement made by the hon. Member for Clonmel, as to the mode adopted by the assistant-barristers in calling over the lists. In his own country he had known freeholders who had to proceed fifteen miles to the place where the registry was conducted, and on their arrival they found the list had been called over, and they were therefore obliged to return fifteen miles more without being registered. It was plain that the assistant-barristers could not perform the duty of registry consistently with the due performance of their other duties; and, therefore, the question the House had to decide was, whether they would vest the appointment of the revising-barristers in the Judges or the Government. In his opinion it would be preferable to vest the appointment in the Crown.
 Mr. Potter  hoped his hon. Friend would not persevere in his opposition, because great fear had been expressed that the Bill would be lost, and in that case what would be the feelings of great numbers of
 793
 Mr. Sheppard  said, that he had seconded the Motion upon the principle of economy, and because he thought the public should be fully satisfied on such a subject. After, however, the Motion had been met so handsomely and so fairly by the Members of the Government, he would not say another word, unless to express his wish for the success of the undertaking for which the money was to be advanced.
 Mr. Ewart  said, the only question was whether the two Clauses were consistent. It was not right to purchase present advantage at the expense of future consistency. He considered the two Clauses wholly inconsistent, and the House ought, whatever their feelings might be, to proceed on that principle alone.
 Mr. Tooke , as Chairman of the Committee, vindicated the integrity of its proceedings, and protested against its being stigmatized on account of expressions used by individual Members, and not adopted in subsequent Resolutions of the Committee. He denied that the Committee deserved the character of a democratic Star-chamber; it had acted within the strict line of duty.
 Colonel Verner  said, he had personally as great a contempt for the libels of that paper as any man could have, neither would he have noticed the present paragraph, had it not been a continuation of long-repeated attacks, holding up him and those who agreed with him to public reprobation. Had the paragraphs been of an ordinary kind, he would have disdained to notice them; but when they not merely ascribed to him and his friends principles they repudiated, but marked them out as objects for the hatred of the people, he could not but urge his hon. Friend to persevere.
 Sir Edmund Hayes  said, he had not yet heard any substantial reason assigned for transferring the duty of registration from the assistant-barristers to revising-barristers appointed by Government. The only one offered was, that it was advisable to separate the political from the judicial functions. That proposition might be most true in the abstract, but he denied that the registration of voters was a political duty. The only point to be ascertained was, whether or not the applicant was in possession of such a qualification as the legislature intended should entitle him to the enjoyment of the elective franchise. For that purpose, all the inquiry necessary was into the nature, extent, and circumstances of his farm, and the rent; but in order to stamp upon this duty the name of "political," it would be necessary that the barrister should be acquainted with the political sentiments not only of the claimant, but also of the candidates for the county or borough to which they belong. In no other point of view could this be thought a political duty; and he would assert, with the utmost confidence, that no such considerations influenced the assistant-barristers. It might be said that the system proposed was similar to the English. It might be; but in England, there were no officers analogous to the assistant-barrister—no machinery existed—and one had, of necessity, to be created. In Scotland, the duty of registration was left in the hands of the Sheriffs of counties—no new set of officers was created. Why, then, in Ireland make an unnecessary change? There of all places, it was most unadvisable to make the change proposed, because the right to vote was much more difficult to ascertain. The qualification was so undefined, and capable of such different construction, that the barristers appointed annually,—(without any departure from their duty,)—might be guided either to restrict or relax the franchise, in accordance with the political complexion of the Government of the day. The decisions of the assistant-barristers were likely to be in accordance with the intention of the Legislature. Experience had proved
 764 s. s.
 Sir Edward Codrington  said, the work was one of national importance. It was so viewed by the Duke of Wellington, who had stated, that if finished, it would be of great military utility. He maintained, that the money was only lent, and that it was lent upon good security. As a Director, he would say, that no persons were more anxious for the fullest investigation and inquiry, than the Directors and proprietors of this Company. Let the hon. Member move for such inquiry, and he (Sir Edward Codrington) would second the Motion. With regard to the petition which he presented on the day the Bill was read a second time, he begged to say, that that was the most proper moment for presenting a petition.
 Sir Henry Verney  trusted that it would not go forth to the public that General Darling had any desire that the inquiry into his conduct should not be completely public. For his own part, however, he hoped that the evidence received by that Committee would not be printed; because, as General Darling had not had time to prepare his defence, it would most unjustly affect his character.
 Sir John Tyrell  would avail himself of the opportunity to express his regret that the Government had extended no relief to the agriculturists. Their claims had been preferred and supported by unanswerable arguments. All other classes were relieved but the unfortunate agriculturists.
 Sir Robert Inglis  regretted that the advice of the Speaker had not been followed, and a stop put to the present discussion. He was anxious to protest against hastily adopting any proceedings in this matter, and thought that it would be better to postpone the subject, or adopt the suggestion of the hon. Member for Bradford.
 Sir William Follett  considered the rejection of the 2nd Clause as a virtual rejection of the Bill, he was sorry the hon. member had done so, and he should therefore, not trouble the House with any further Amendments.
 Sir William Follett  said, that nobody he thought would contend that such marriages ought to be allowed; as the law now stood, they were not void but only voidable, and he thought it advisable to set the question at rest by making them for the future either void or valid; that was his intention in inserting the 2nd Clause in the Bill.
 Viscount Morpeth  observed, as to the paper in question being the organ of the
 790
 Viscount Morpeth : If it were considered inexpedient to open the registry generally, he saw no reason why he should comply with the modified proposition of the right hon. Gentleman. By the Bill the House shut out an appeal to the House of Commons.
 Viscount Morpeth  supported the Clause, because the assistant-barristers had quite sufficient duties to perform independently of that from which this Bill would relieve
 765
 Viscount Morpeth  feared that if he acceded to the proposition of making the appointment of the revising-barristers permanent, he would render himself liable to the charge of monopolising patronage. As the Clause stood, it left it in the power of succeeding administrations to appoint the revising barristers if it should deem fit.
 Mr. William Ord , as Chairman of the Intimidation Committee, would trouble the House with a few observations in reply to the petition last presented, and to the statements made by the hon. Member, in both of which son ething of the nature of complaint was made against that Committee. He could assure the hon. Member that at any rate, so far as related to this case, there was no foundation for any such complaint. He might refer him in the first place to the Report of that Committee, now on the Table of the House, in which the Committee had endeavoured to show the House the character of the inquiry which they had conducted; and disclaimed on their parts any attempts which might have been made to make that Committee a receptacle for individual charges against particular persons concerned in electioneering matters; their exertions had been directed to the sifting the cases brought before them in such a manner as to make each charge stand upon absolute proof or disproof. It had been the object of the Committee to obtain evidence which might direct the House to some practical remedy (if such could be suggested), by ascertaining the nature of the system through individual Acts; by arriving, when it could, at general facts which were undisputed, and by leaving aside those which being disputed might involve the Committee, in the course of investigating them, in such a loss of time as was wholly inconsistent with the limits of the period prescribed for the inquiry, and which would, in fact, have been a deviation from the object for which the Committee was appointed. With this view, in reference to the subject of bribery, the Committee had laid aside all charges against particular individuals, and all charges which,being matters of dispute, might have involved a lengthened inquiry into them. The attention of the Committee had been directed to those towns and boroughs where the existence of bribery had been proved; and they had examined witnesses as to the mode and manner in which that bribery had been carried on. In particular, they had selected those places where such practices had been carried on by both sides, and where the wit-
 807 808 The Times
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that as the right hon. Gentleman had impugned the respectability of the persons who had signed the petition which had been presented by the hon. Member for Middlesex, he had looked at the signatures attached to it, and could undertake to say, that they were those of most respectable persons of all religious persuasions, most of whom—he had looked over four or five sheets—had given their places of residence. Amongst, the names were those of three persons, one a Protestant and two Roman Catholics, who came under the description of bankers, for they were Directors of the Dublin Bank. He was instructed to say, that if the House should institute an inquiry, the petitioners were prepared to verify the facts stated in the petition. Any measure which had for its object the exclusion of all judicial persons from Parliament should receive his support, but he would object to any partial application of the principle.
 Mr. Ruthven  was decidedly opposed to the combination of the judicial and legislative functions. The man who acted political partisan in the Senate could not be capable of soberly, calmly, and dispassionately discharging judicial functions. The right hon. Recorder of Dublin had a voice in the making of laws which he was to administer afterwards.
 Mr. O'Connell  wished to observe, understanding that it had been stated by the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite that he wrote to Dublin to induce the people to get up this petition, that the hon. and learned Gentleman was totally misinformed; he never wrote to Dublin on that subject. A meeting was in the first instance fixed to take place at the Corn-Exchange; that meeting was interrupted by a person of the name of John M'Crea, and a band of Orangemen, who obtained possession of the room two hours before the time when the meeting was appointed to be held. The consequence was, that the meeting could not be held on that occasion. He then certainly did write to a gentleman in Dublin to say, that he considered the party would be for ever disgraced if they allowed such ruffians to prevent them from holding their meeting.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the first Order of the Day was the Consolidated Fund Bill, which stood for committal. The hon. Member for Lincoln, (Mr. E. L. Bulwer) had given notice of a motion for this evening, on the first Order of the Day being moved. He rose, however, to postpone the first Order till Friday next, therefore the hon. Gentleman would make his motion on the second Order being moved. His motive, however, for postponing the Order of the Day
 823
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that undoubtedly the control of the public funds was a constitutional power belonging to the Commons of England. If it was found that the amelioration of the abuses existing in our institutions, and the advancement of the necessary reforms, were to be impeded, the Commons would exercise their constitutional control over the public exchequer, and would place it in the hands of those who had the confidence of the people, so as to render any perseverance in a systematic opposition to the improvements required by the people impossible. The people of England would be slaves if they submitted to such dictation. The Monarch on the throne was irresponsible, because he had his servants, and they were responsible to the people for the acts of the Government. Would it be submitted to, that 200 or 300 individuals, in no way responsible for what they did, should wield the power of obstructing this correction of abuses, and the redress of wrongs? That would be a miserable
 824
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he knew not what might be the notions of decency or delicacy which the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down might entertain for his own government, but those which he himself entertained of both the one and the other would
 825 826
 Mr. O'Connell  accepted the transfer, and returned it with much contempt for the hon. Member's argument. It was a doctrine slavish in the extreme which bad dictated
 827
 Mr. Randall Plunkett  said, that the
 828
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said—Undoubtedly, Sir, I do not rise for the purpose of complaining of the Motion of my hon. Friend, or of the speeches in which the question has been brought forward, but for the purpose of returning thanks to my hon. Friends for the observations they have made so favourable to us, and for the calm and temperate mode in which they have approached the subject. I do not complain of the Motion itself, although I will take the liberty of praying the House not at the present moment to agree to it. I do not complain of the subject having been brought forward; it is fitting that it should be discussed, and that upon the principle which was opened by my hon. Friend (Mr. Bulwer). It is gratifying to me also that it has now been brought forward, because upon this subject I have been much misrepresented. On the one hand, it has been said that I have broken pledges which I have given for the total repeal of these duties, while, on the other hand, I have been represented as being a stickler for them, and totally opposed to their repeal. I will not now stop to justify myself, but I will say before this House, that the one accusation is as false as the other. Passing on to the Motion, Sir, I shall deal with it fully, fairly, and with all the respect that is due to the spirit in which it has been brought forward. I consider it one of the greatest mistakes that can be entertained, both in point of reason and in fact, to assume that the cause of sound political information and the character of the Press are to be kept up by a tax. I think that neither one nor the other requires it. It is not by the means of a stamp-duty that either can be maintained. The character of a press depends upon the character of the people, and he who supposes that a moral press is to be procured, if I may so speak, by the instrumentality of a stamp-duty, commits an egregious error in point of principle. I do not defend the tax. I repudiate it as to any protection it may be supposed to afford to the diffusion of political information and of sound knowledge. When I come to show the evils which arise from high duties on the Press, I bring to my aid evidence which is not open to suspicion upon the
 846 847 l. 848 849
 Mr. O'Connell : Sir, I must protest, in the first place, against the opinion given by the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer as being correct with respect to the whole of the unstamped Press; for there
 855 l.
 Mr. Wallace : I am sure that what has
 856
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : Sir, I am anxious to offer a few words in explanation. The hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has argued as if I had invited the House to take the course he has stated. Sir, I stated that I never would consent to take this course; that I would never be responsible for taking it, because I consider it inconsistent at the present moment with the financial state of the country. I must say, that it is not very generous in the hon. Gentleman to take advantage of my frank admissions.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : The hon. Gentleman is perfectly entitled to consider that I have pledged myself against the principle of this Tax, which I never can support; but if he means to say that I have pledged myself, under all imaginable circumstances, to repeal this Tax next Session, I must say that I have given, and am prepared to give, no such pledge. I may have the same difficulties to contend with—the financial arrangements of the country may be exactly the same—and in that case, I shall be under the necessity of continuing this Tax. I have stated, as distinctly as I could do, what my opinions were upon this subject, and from those there shall be no departure or compromise.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : Aye, supposing the revenue can bear it. But I must say, at the same time, that this is a different state of the Question to what it was at first.
 Mr. Vernon Smith  said, the obvious and only course for the hon. Gentleman to pursue, if he had been wronged, was that of suing the Governor-general for India. With reference to the account of the injury which had been suffered, he would observe that while the hon. Member for Middlesex had stated it to be the loss of 8,000 l. l., l., l.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought the Bill should be brought in, leaving the details of it to the Committee.  prima facie
 Dr. Baldwin  took that opportunity of saying, that a petition, agreed to at a most numerous and respectable meeting in the city of Cork, had been presented to the House of Lords, praying that they would pass the Municipal Reform Bill as it was sent up from the Commons, without any alteration in its main principles. It was well known that Cork was the second city in point of wealth and independence in Ireland, and he had mentioned the fact of such a petition having been agreed to in that city, to show that the strongest interest was felt in the fate of this measure amongst the people of Ireland as well as those of England. He conceived that the sentiments of the hon. Member for Birmingham had been grossly misrepresented on the other side, for he understood his argument to be, that the people were not inclined to sweep away any branch of the Legislature until they found that its preservation was wholly incompatible with the maintenance of their rights and liberties. He, for one, had no hesitation in declaring, that he would not consent to the Appropriation Act being passed, or the Supplies being voted to his Majesty's Ministers, until he saw strong grounds for believing that the grievances of the people would be effectually redressed. What was the state of things now before
 835
 Mr. Scarlett  had to present a Petition, the allegations in which represented grievances, the magnitude of which, as the petitioners truly stated, were so excessive and monstrous, that the very excess of them deprived the petitioners of the ordinary remedies. The petition proceeded from the freeholders of the county of Kerry, and detailed a series of the most flagrant and persevering intimidaiion exercised upon them. The intimidation, they stated, consisted not only in the use of open force and violence, and in the influence of the ministers of religion over their flocks in their clerical or in their lay capacity, but in the most iniquitous perversion of the religious, or, he might rather, perhaps, describe them as the superstitious feelings of the people, to political purposes. All the allegations in the petition could be proved by the most direct and positive evidence. Part, indeed, of them, had already been proved before the Intimidation Committee. The petitioners stated, that the return of the right hon. Maurice Fitzgerald (the Knight of Kerry) was secured beyond all question, if the county had been allowed to remain tranquil; but so far was this from being permitted, a system of the most violent and iniquitous intimidation and exercise of undue influence had been resorted to for the purpose of returning Messrs. Mullins and Morgan John O'Connell, as Members for the county. The first outbreak of these illegal proceedings consisted in a speech delivered by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, at a meeting of the Association in Dublin; at which the hon. and learned Member, after stating that he was the day after going down to the county of Kerry to oppose the Knight of Kerry, fulminated a sentence of condemnation against every man who should dare to vote for the right hon. Gentleman, that "a death's head and cross bones should be chalked on his door, to shew the people how great a miscreant dwelt there." The petitioners added, that in Ireland there were multitudes of deluded men, ready to
 *Col. Fairman kept out of the way till the Session was brought to a close, and no further steps were taken with regard to him. 805 806
 Lord John Russell  said, it is certainly not my intention to answer the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, because I consider his speech as little else than a second attempt to enter on that debate which the hon. Member near him (Mr. Plunkett) so indiscreetly and unwisely endeavoured to provoke. The simple question, which my right hon. Friend stated in terms as plain and distinct as those in which any
 832 833
 Lord John Russell  was extremely sorry to have misrepresented the hon. Gentleman; but his impression of what had occurred on the occasion alluded to was such as he had stated.
 Mr. Charles Buller  sympathised in the warmth which his right hon. Friend had displayed in defending himself from the imputations which had been cast upon his motives. His right hon. Friend had stated a ground for the delay in question; another ground had been put forward by the hon. Member for Middlesex, and the hon. Gentleman opposite at once proceeded to "transfer"—to use his own expression—the latter ground to the account of his right hon. Friend. As an old Member of Parliament compared to the two young Members who had spoken, he would make one recommendation to the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Newark—namely, before he made a violent attack on a political adversary, he should carefully attend to what that adversary said. As to the transfer of the charge to the hon. Member for Middlesex and others—he himself must come in for a share
 829
 Mr. Charles Buller : I am sure if the right hon. Gentleman should obtain any unpopularity, it will not be for the manner in which he has treated this question, though I am sorry that he does not go further. If, at any other time, he has made any unpopular observations, he has now shown himself decided on the justness of the principle, and he has thrown aside all the odious arguments by which these taxes have been supported in past times. He
 850 l., l., l. l. l., The Penny Magazine d. 851
 Mr. Tulk  detailed the circumstances of Mr. Buckingham's banishment from India
 863
 Mr. Harvey  said, that in justice to the hon. and learned Gentleman, it must be admitted that he conducted the business of the civil and criminal courts in Dublin in such a manner as to leave it to be wished that in the civil department, at least, his example was imitated. The evil complained of was in the system. All these inquiries tended to show that it was essential the two characters, the judicial and the political, should not be blended. He should attach no importance to the petition not being signed by the mer-
 821 822
 Mr. Baines : Sir, I feel anxious to make a few observations on this important subject. I entirely approve of the Motion made by my hon. Friend. I think with him, that there should be a reduction, not of the whole, but the greater part, of the tax. I am persuaded that if the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer will adopt this resolution, and I infer from his observations that he will ultimately adopt it, he need not apprehend that the revenue will suffer from its adoption. I am persuaded that there are means by which great advantages may be derived from the reduction. But there is one subject which has not been attended to, and which I feel is entitled to as much observation as the reduction of the duty upon newspapers, and that is the reduction of the duty upon the paper itself. By the reduction of the duty upon paper, you will give advantages to all classes of society; whereas, by the reduction of the duty upon newspapers, you give advantages to one class only. The readers, and I need not say that they are a great many, of books, will all receive advantages by the reduction of the duty on paper. I hope the Chancellor of the Exchequer, when he takes this subject into consideration, will not lose sight of what, in my opinion, is of very great importance—the reduction of the duty upon paper. With respect to the observations that have been made upon the propriety of imposing a postage duty, I conceive that that would be an extremely prejudicial measure. It would in my opinion operate to withhold information from those persons who stand most in want of it. It is also objectionable in another way. Many faults would be found with the duty upon postage by those who now make no objection to paying the full expense of a newspaper. Many would object to pay postage who have no objection to pay a duty upon the article from, which they derive benefit, and for which they receive value. I do think that this view of the subject with respect to postage ought not to be lost sight of. If there shall be a duty of one penny upon postage,
 857 858
 Mr. E. Bulwer : I consider the right hon. Gentleman to pledge himself to the repeal of those Taxes, if the revenue can bear it.
 Mr. Edward Lytton Bulwer : I consider that the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) has in his speech pledged himself—I have a right to use that expression—to the repeal of the Stamp-duty. I consider that he has pledged himself in that speech as strongly as any man can pledge himself. I believe that this Duty cannot last. I believe that it will be repealed in the next Session. The only question remaining now is one of delay. If I press this Question to a division at this moment, I am not sure that I shall carry it; and if I do carry it, it will be with great moral disadvantages. In the first place, it will weaken the Government at a moment when it ought to have collected round it its whole strength. In the next place, it will expose us to divisions when we ought most to be united. And in the third place, we shall render ourselves liable to the accusation of acting against his Majesty's Government, at a time when I sincerely believe they are in possession of the national confidence. Under all these circumstances, I feel that, on this as on similar questions, our object will he best attained—the Government acknowledging the principle, and
 862
 Mr. Edward Lytton Bulwer  rose to submit a Motion to the House for the repeal of the Stamp-duties on Newspapers. The hon. Member said:—Sir, I can assure the right hon. Gentleman, that I am exceedingly glad of the delay that has taken place in the bringing forward of this Motion. I am exceedingly rejoiced at the conversation which has just taken place, and which, I am satisfied, will be hailed with the greatest pleasure by the country. I am also glad that my Motion has been delayed, until so many and so respectably-signed petitions have been presented in favour of it. The present Motion is not a novel one, as on two former occasions a similar one has been brought forward, and therefore I can assure the House, that I will not occupy its time for more than a few moments. I am sure the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) will acquit me of the least desire to embarrass the Government. I have supported the Ministers out of power, humbly, zealously, but disinterestedly; but I support them with still greater pleasure now that they are in power, because hitherto they have nobly justified the grounds on which I desired their restoration to office, and never, I believe, more than by their speeches of this evening. That considerable excitement prevails upon this subject throughout
 836 Times 837 Spectator? Spectators 838 Rambler, Spectator, Shakespeare, Milton, 839 840 841 Times Chronicle Herald, l. l., l., l., Penny Magazine, l. 842 843
 Mr. Shaw  said, that considering his name had been used as a mere pretext for a political movement in Dublin, out of which the present petition had arisen, and making due allowance for the party motives which had actuated it, he had not much to complain of in the petition itself, but he did feel, and he thought the House would consider, that he had reason to complain of the manner in which the hon. Member had brought it forward. He had never been afforded the opportunity of even reading the petition. The hon. Member had withheld from him the usual courtesy of a private communication that he had received it, with an offer that he might see it, a courtesy which he had never known omitted between Members of that House under similar circumstances. He (Mr. Shaw) had not even heard the name of one of the petitioners who had signed it. No doubt the hon. Member had with great pomp and parade made a public announcement in that House of his intention to present a petition making charges against the Recorder of Dublin for certain acts of his, and that of course had taken its round of all the public papers. The same announcement was repeated last night, and the petition ostentatiously postponed, and he supposed that the admirers of the hon. Gentleman, who had been reading every morning for the last fortnight of the hon. Member's achievements in sending persons to Newgate, were fully anticipating as the news of to-morrow morning's breakfast table, that the hon. Member was to try his hand on him that night, particularly as he was guilty of the high crime and misdemeanor of belonging to that minority which differed in opinion with the mild, the merciful, and exceeding just majority which, for the last few weeks, had been administering the judicial functions of that House. The petition was described as that of "the bankers, merchants, and 20,000 citizens of Dublin." As he had already said, he had neither seen the petition nor the signatures, but he was informed, that it was signed by no banker, by few persons deserving the name of merchants, and that the numbers were made up in the following manner:—Copies of the petition were sent round for the last few Saturday nights to the pay-tables of the workmen and mechanics in most of the public-houses in Dublin, where those poor people were required to sign them, and that on the
 814 Hume: 815 Movement 816 817 maximum, 818
 Mr. Grote : I can assure the House that it is my intention to trespass only for a very short time; but I think after the speech of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to which I have listened with much pleasure, I think I may be allowed to say it evinced a much more enlightened and generous spirit than has been known to be displayed by any Member of any Executive Government before. But I must also say, that after having heard pointed out in the most clear manner, and so much more forcibly than I can do, the mischievous consequences of retaining these taxes, a much stronger reason than that founded on mere financial considerations is necessary to justify their continuance. I think the right hon. Gentleman seemed to admit in his financial statement, that there was strong probability that the reduction of this tax from 4 d. d. 852
 Mr. Robinson : I will not detain the House with more than a few observations upon this very important question. I believe, that every Gentleman who has spoken has decidedly advocated some alteration in the Stamp Duties. I can assure the House that there is a strong feeling upon this subject amongst my constituency, and the most respectable and influential portion of them decidedly advocate an alteration of the duties upon newspapers, and I have during the present Session presented petitions from them, praying for its repeal. I wish to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether; after the very strong expressions he has himself used this night upon this subject, his Majesty's Ministers can hope to maintain these duties in their present state? The question is in fact disposed of—and I am very glad to observe the general concurrence of opinion on the part of those who usually support the present Government. And I hope, that after the general expression of the feeling of all sides of the House, that the hon. Member for Lincoln will not press his resolution. The right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) has abandoned the tax upon principle, and I hope, therefore, the hon. Member will not press the House to a division. I merely rose to express my own opinion, and to ask this plain question—whether after the declared opinion, openly given in the face of the public, upon the principle of this tax, his Majesty's Government have determined upon the maintenance of this tax upon only one ground, that of finance—a ground which I consider to be wholly untenable? Can it be said, that in this great country—where we have a revenue of fifty millions—after the House of Commons with one opinion has pronounced this a most objectionable tax, that it is yet to be maintained upon the principle of revenue alone? I will not further occupy the time of the House. The only question is in what way this tax may be most advantageously altered. I will not enter into the subject whether or not a substitute should be adopted in lieu of the whole or of a portion of it; but I am most decidedly of opinion, that if his Majesty's Government will direct its at-
 859
 Sir Henry Hardinge  always considered it to be admitted among all shades of parties, whether Catholic or Protestant, Whig, Tory, or Radical, that the hon. and learned Member for Dublin University transacted the business of his Courts in such a manner as to be a model for every Judge in the country. He should regret that the principle of excluding Judges from Parliament were adopted, because it would deprive them of the advantage of the talents of the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Dr. Lushington), who, on great questions of foreign policy, was universally admitted to be an eminent authority.
 Mr. Warburton : Sir, if there was any time in which I should feel it my duty to oppose the Government it would be the present. After the declaration that has been made by the right hon. Gentleman on two most important subjects, first, the declaration with respect to the internal politics of the country; and secondly, the declaration that he has made with respect to
 853 854
 Mr. Twiss  had hoped, that after the explanation of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the debate would be brought to a close. But when he heard the speeches of the Members opposite, especially the speeches of the Members for Middlesex and Birmingham, he was not sorry that it was protracted, because he was anxious to see to what extent the speculations of the innovators on our settled form of Government—on the institutions of the country— those institutions that had existed for ages and ministered to the renown and happiness of England in peace and war—would be carried in that House. He wished an extension of the debate in order to elicit a development of the scheme—not of Revolution, for that word might call forth a check and a contradiction, and he wished to avoid the jars of controversy—but of the principle of innovation and overthrow that was wafted over the nation on the wings of Ministerial influence.  ["Hear, hear."] 831 ["Oh, oh," from the Ministerial benches.]
 Mr. Twiss  said, that he had not interrupted the noble Lord, though he should have been justified in doing so on the ground of misrepresentation. The mistake into which the noble Lord had now fallen was the same as that which was committed by Lord Althorp during the discussion on the Reform Bill. The opinions which he expressed upon that occasion with respect to the middle classes, were misconceived by the noble Lord (Lord Althorp), as he (Mr. Twiss) had proved. He was surprised therefore to hear this misrepresentation repeated.
 Mr. Buckingham : This tax, in my opinion does not bear any proportion to the price of the article, and I would venture, therefore, to suggest, that if this tax were taken off newspapers, and one of a penny or less put on, it would so increase the circulation, that a greater revenue would be acquired by it. If also free transmission was given to newspapers to all parts of the country, the revenue, in my opinion, would be increased. I think, on the whole, there ought to he a graduated duty relative to newspapers.
 Dr. Bowring , as a Representative of Scotland, wished it to be understood that the people of that country, so far as he was acquainted with their opinions, would not
 830
 Mr. Wilks  would venture to state that the inhabitants of the British Empire would be more satisfied with the conversation of that night than they would have been with a long debate upon any other subject; they would be highly satisfied with the constitutional tone and language of his Majesty's Ministers. If such a course of events were to be brought about as that supposed to be intended on the part of the other House of Parliament, it would be indeed a matter of regret to hon. Members that they had been only occupied in imposing new burdens on the people, and not at all in redressing their grievances.
 Mr. Wilks  expressed his satisfaction that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had felt it necessary to postpone moving the appropriation clause. He thought it desirable that the adoption of that clause should be postponed until it should be known what course of proceeding was likely to be followed elsewhere.
 Mr. Hume  said, that while the three great and most important questions were pending in another place, he thought it would be highly improper in the House to pass any more money clauses. He did not wish to deny to another place the free exercise of its powers, but some discretion was required on the part of that House. He repeated, that the Members of the House of Commons, acting on behalf of the people of the country, were called on at the present crisis not to agree to any more votes of money, nor for the appropriation of that already granted. They might at last find themselves placed in a situation such as their constituents had scarcely looked for. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would postpone his motion not till Friday next only, but for any further period that might be necessary to enable them, before they came to its consideration, to see how the public business had got on elsewhere.
 Mr. Hume  presented a Petition from bankers, merchants, and citizens of Dublin, signed by twenty thousand names, principally directed against the right hon. Recorder of Dublin, whom he saw in his place. The immediate occasion of the petition was an alleged speech by the Recorder, but that was only a minor topic of the petition. He considered it important because it was intimately connected with the administration of justice, which ought to be free from all party feeling, and he could not discharge his duty by the petitioners without bringing the principal parts of their complaint before the House. The petition was agreed to at a numerous and respectable meeting of the inhabitants of Dublin; he would not advert to the interruption which took place, but would leave that to others if they thought proper to notice it, but he hoped that the petition, and the charges it contained, which the
 809 810 811 812 Oh, oh! Nicholl
 Mr. Hume  said, he would not accept the transfer—because the opinions of the hon. Gentleman showed his ignorance. He spoke as if Ministers had only one duty to perform. Well, he thought so. He might think one party only, the Crown, was to be considered. But there was another party, the people, who could not be overlooked, for they would not suffer themselves to be overlooked. The two parties, the King and the people, had each separate privileges, though they had only united interests, and it was the duty of the Government and the House to guard both. Both Houses of Parliament were free to act as they pleased, each in its own sphere; but the people of England would take care that each should act according to the rules of justice and the calls of public interest, and that one should not check the good intentions of the other. The other House must not mar the measures of the Commons, else they might rue it. The measures which he and his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer would advocate, might not be very palateable to the hon. Gentleman and his friends, for they only wanted to get the public money, and a pretty use they made of it when they got it. He was sorry the Parliament was so short, else he would take care to check the abuses of public patronage. If Ministers would take the advice of their friends in Parliament. They would not be in haste to make grants of public money till they saw how the measures on which the people had set their hearts were to be disposed of by the other and irresponsible branch of the Legislature. Were the millions of England to be led by a few individuals? Let the people of England but speak out, and then the other House might take what course they pleased.
 Mr. Hume : I rise, Sir, to second the Motion of the hon. Member with very great pleasure. My opinions upon this subject are so well known to the House and the country generally, that it is scarcely necessary for me to repeat them, and there is little danger of their being misunderstood. I shall merely observe that the arguments of my hon. Friend appear to me so convincing, that I cannot but hope they will have due weight with the Chancellor of the Exchequer. If his Majesty's Government, after the declaration of this night, believe that we have given them our sincere and honest support, I ask of them to grant us but this one boon; I do not ask it for their own sakes, or for their own advantage, but as a boon to the country that has so magnanimously supported them; and even if they differ a little from us upon this question, let them, as we have done, sacrifice a little of their opinions, to reward those who have stood by them in the struggle. I do not recollect the exact number of petitions which have been presented upon this subject; but I believe there is scarce a large town in England that has not appeared by petition at the Bar of the House, and given expression to its wishes for the repeal of this tax. Why, Sir, all the parties who had supported his Majesty's Government, from 1830 up to the present moment, and enabled them to carry through the important reforms projected by them, are deeply interested in this question. The people are asking in every quarter, who are the persons who have imposed these taxes that have kept us in darkness? Who are
 844 Chancellor of the Exchequer: 845
 Mr. Hume : I am of opinion, after what has been stated, that even if the finances of the country remain the same, the right hon. Gentleman is bound to find a substitute for this Tax. I consider that he is called upon, after the general expression of the opinion of the House, so to do. I will only add, that if I had had any idea that the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Lincoln, was pledged not to press the Motion to a division, I would never have seconded it.
 Mr. Hume  was surprised at the course taken by the right hon. Baronet. Mr.
 865 l. l. l., l. l.,
 Mr. Jackson  was sorry that the House was not in possession of the history of the getting up of this petition, which he believed was of a somewhat curious nature. The hon. Member for Middlesex had let fall some words which showed that the parties to the petition had something else in view besides the legitimate object of bringing a supposed grievance under the notice of the House. The hon. Member Stated that the petition had been published in all the newspapers in Dublin. Was that a decorous proceeding—was it respectful even to the House of Commons, to publish in that manner a petition which had not been presented? Such a proceeding could have been adopted only for the purpose of injuring the character of the right hon. and learned Gentleman, which, however, thank God, stood too high in public estimation both in Ireland and this country, to be seriously affected by the charges which evil-minded men might fabricate against him. The getting up of the petition was a discreditable proceeding—it was a disgraceful attempt to prejudice a political opponent. There was reason to suppose that the meeting at which the petition was agreed to was got up at the instigation of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. If the Report contained in the paper which he held in his hand was true, Mr. Murphy, one of the hon. and learned Member's agents, stated at the meeting that he had received a letter from the hon. and learned Member, representing that the citizens of Dublin would be unworthy of protection if they did not hold a meeting on the subject of the Recorder of Dublin's conduct. The ground of the meeting was a speech alleged to have been made by the right hon. Gentleman, which he had over and over again disclaimed having uttered. What were the circumstances attending that meeting? He held in his hand a petition from a multitude of the citizens of Dublin, which he had been instructed to present to the House, and which stated that a number of respectable persons, who went to attend the meeting which was convened by public advertisement, were assaulted and cruelly wounded by a gang of coal porters, armed with bludgeons and daggers, who were hired for the purpose of driving away all persons who were supposed to be hostile to the objects of the meeting. He had also received communications from surgeons in Dublin, certi-
 820
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  thought, it most important that the House of Lords should not be deceived as to the opinions and determinations of the people of England, and should fully understand that they could not trample upon that people. He had but recently come from a meeting in the country, which had been attended by 10,000 individuals. He felt sure that it would not be safe for that House to oppose their feelings and opinions. It had even been observed at that meeting, that under the present march of education and diffusion of knowledge, the time would soon approach when the country would need neither House of Lords nor a King, and the shout with which that sentiment had been received by those 10,000 men, had almost brought the roof under which they were assembled, about his ears.
 Mr. Wakley : Sir, it rests with the hon. Member who has made the motion, whether we shall any longer continue to have stamp duties or not. The right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, has invited the House to vote. He has said that this is not a tax that can be defended upon principle, and he says also that it is inexpedient in practice; and what, I ask, could a Chancellor of the Exchequer say more? He has said, that this tax could not be recommended; that in every sense of the word it is injurious to the morals of the country; and after this declaration, I consider that this House, deserted as it is by the Conservatives,— [great laughter—the Opposition Benches were almost empty] l., l. 860 l. 861
 Mr. William Ewart Gladstone  said, he was misunderstood by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He did not mean to draw the distinction which he referred to; neither did he now mean to enter into the ample field of disquisition relative to the duties of Ministers to the Crown and to the people on which the right hon. Gentleman dwelt with so much emphasis and so much studied energy. He begged to thank the right hon. Gentleman, however, for the ground on which he put the postponement of the Clause. He was perfectly satisfied with the explanation, and, having his assurance for its truth, he could not doubt it. If he applied unpalatable language to the right hon. Gentleman, supposing that his postponement of the Clause had reference to discussions pending in another place, and which a threatened vote of this House would be supposed to overawe, he begged, after the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman, to say that he was entirely content. It was his pleasure, as well as it was his duty, to retract that language as regarded the right hon. Gentleman. However, he did not retract the language as referring to the sentiments that he heard uttered on the other side of the House, and now he would transfer it from the right hon. Gentleman to the two hon. Members opposite (Mr. Hume and Mr. O'Connell), for they had advanced atrocious and dangerous doctrines, tending to upset all freedom and independence of action in the other branch of the Legislature, which had as sound a constitutional right of judgment as that House.
 Mr. William Ewart Gladstone  did not object to the postponement of the Order of the Day, neither did he question the power of the House to exercise its high privileges for other and ulterior objects than the mere acceleration, or suspension, of a particular part of a Bill. But he rose to say that although the House had the power of carrying into execution the threat of suspending the granting of public money for the general emergencies of the State, yet he felt in honour and conscience bound to state that there could be nothing more indiscreet—nothing more indecent—he would retract the word indecent, and say nothing more indelicate, than for a Minister of the Crown to ground his postponement of a financial Bill on the presumption of the course of conduct that another branch of the Legislature might pursue respecting certain legislative measures that were submitted to their consideration in their independent capacity; and that other branch of the Legislature was as independent as this branch of the Legislature, and as capable of exercising a sound and useful judgment. He deplored the spirit that seemed to guide the Government, and he could not sufficiently reprobate the mind that ruled the actions of these sections of various parties that whirled the Government round wthin the eddies of an all absorbing agitation. It was because the hon. Members opposite threatened to overawe the Monarchy, and the other branch of the Legislature, which was the original barrier between the usurpations of the Crown and the licentiousness of the people—it was because that it was useful, and wise, and just that both branches should harmonize and attune with each other, that he could not before really have imagined that a Minister of the Crown would act on such motives as the speeches of the hon. Member for Middlesex and the hon. Member for Dublin would seem to show influenced the conduct of the right hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Ewart  said, that judging from the petitions presented to the House, the people of England must also come in for a share of the "transfer" spoken of. The House was now called upon to use the means which had been placed at their disposal for the protection of the people; and in exercising it, they would show themselves the real friends and steady advocates of the prerogative of the Crown. It was their first duty to advise the King and the other branch of the Legislature, of what were the real feelings of the people; the moment they ceased to do so, they abandoned their duty to the people and the Crown.
 Mr. Tooke  said, that the important conversation which had now taken place, was the most satisfactory answer that could be given to a petition which he had presented in the early part of the evening; it spoke volumes, in a language not to be misunderstood, and showed that that House, in the undoubted exercise of its privileges, would not bestow the public funds, over which it was the guardian, until those objects had been obtained which the interests of the country loudly called for. He, for one, should withhold his assent to the appropriation of the Supplies until the wishes of the people on the subject of Municipal Reform had been satisfied.
 Sir Edward Codrington  begged to return his Majesty's Ministers thanks for the expression of constitutional doctrines which they had that night given. It was because he was an ardent admirer of our present form of Government, that he was desirous that the just expectations of the people should be granted, and he was quite sure that if they were not, serious consequences would result to that Constitution.
 Mr. H. Bulwer : My hon. Friend, the Member for Lincoln, never stated that he was pledged not to divide; he only stated that he did not think it adviseable, under the present circumstances, to divide the House. When the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, has admitted the principle of the Motion, I do not see how my hon. Friend could divide the House.
 Sir John Hobhouse  said, it was disagreeable to him to appear connected with anything that might be thought, however mistakenly, to savour of oppression or an attempt to put down the liberty of the press, and it was doubly disagreeable to be obliged to speak of the case of an hon. Member of the House—the hon. Gentleman sitting opposite to him at the time and advocating his own claim, which, be it remembered, was for compensation in money for certain alleged losses. Since he had been in Parliament, he never before knew a Member of the House to come forward in support of a pecuniary claim of his own. He did not say that this was Mr. Buckingham's fault, perhaps it might be called the hon. Gentleman's misfortune; but then it was also his misfortune to be obliged to argue against Mr. Buckingham's demand in that Gentleman's presence, especially if he should be thought to say anything severe. He as well as other Members had received a paper containing a statement of Mr. Buckingham's case, and he must say this was the first time he had observed any thing like such a mode of application with respect to pecuniary claims of a Member of that House. He would state why it was, that he totally objected to this motion. In the first place, he disliked the delay that had taken place in prosecuting the claim. He asked how came it, after the Committee of 1828 had broken up without making any report on the subject, that Mr. Buckingham allowed his just claims (if just they were) to e dormant from that time till 1834? Those claims had been brought before the Court of Directors and Proprietors of the East-India Company by Mr. Buckingham's personal friends and ad-
 864 l.
 Sir John Hobhouse  would wave that question.
 Mr. Ruthven  most sincerely wished to see a good and sound understanding restored between that and the other House. He hoped that House would pursue a calm and cautious course, to prevent any dangerous collision between the millions of the United Kingdom and a small party in the other House; but, at the same time, he hoped that this House would not degrade itself by any concession of the just rights of the people, which would only precipitate the calamity they were all anxious to prevent.
 Lord John Russell  was glad to hear from the hon. Member, that his friends in Birmingham had adopted his very judicious advice in two instances—first, in not renewing the Political Unions; and secondly, in softening the terms in which they spoke, in their petition, of the House of Lords, into terms of proper respect. The hon. Gentleman had acted with great judgment in both these cases. He had been always of opinion, that the people had better abstain from forming Political Unions. With regard to the other point, he quite agreed with the hon. Member, that the House of Lords should be treated with due and becoming respect.
 Mr. Shaw  also agreed in the propriety of the advice that had been given by the hon. Member for Birmingham against any proposed revival of Political Unions. Both the hon. Member and the noble Lord must have learned long since that it was easier to set a going the wheel of Radicalism than to stop it. He trusted, however, than the parties had been restrained by a sense of duty rather than by any other motive.
 Mr. Scholefield  said, that the meeting alluded to by his hon. Colleague had been characterized by the greatest firmness of purpose, combined with the greatest moderation. He would not have alluded to it at all, if it had not been for the uncalled-for observations of the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin. His hon. Colleague had used the power and confidence reposed in him by the people with the greatest moderation and sound judgment, and had conducted himself with the highest credit and in the most exemplary manner.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  said, he had to present a Petition adopted at a public meeting in Birmingham, signed by Mr. James, the Chairman, on behalf of the meeting. It was on the subject of the Municipal Corporations' Bill, and it had been adopted at a meeting equally distinguished for its numbers and for the firmness with which it gave utterance to its opinions. The petitioners approached the House with increased confidence—a confidence in which he participated—in consequence of having a Ministry that warranted good opinions and expectations. Previously to presenting this petition, in order that the House might duly estimate its value, he wished to give an instance of the sort of feeling that characterized those who constituted this meeting. There had been a desire, seeing what was passing, to revive the Political Union. Of the former Poli-
 867 868
 Mr. Wakley  said, he could not but remember the great benefit that had been derived from Political Unions; that to those Unions, alone, they owed the Reform Bill; and that if an emergency again arose the people were not without precedents. It was clear to all, or it ought to be, that there was now proceeding a violent conflict between two principles—that of hereditary power, and that of representative legislation. He was satisfied that the re-
 869
 Mr. Ruthven  said, this petition purported to come from the "bankers, merchants, &c," of Dublin, and yet the very first name on it was that of the notorious "Johnny M'Crea," as he was commonly called, and that was followed by the names
 939
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the gallant Member's belief was indeed of a very extensive nature, or he would not credit a statement totally at variance with all the published evidence on the fact. The first name to this petition was that of the Rev. John M'Crea, "of Gurtnasheen,"—rather a queer designation for a resident inhabitant of Dublin, and this petition purported to come from the inhabitants of Dublin. The truth was, that this man, and a number of others of his party, preoccupied the room engaged for the holding of this meeting a couple of hours before that fixed for the taking of the chair, and when the requestionists arrived they found the place in the hands of their opponents. They then called a meeting for the purpose in the Coburg-gardens. Immediately the Orange party set to work; the Orange Lodges in Dublin and its vicinity, seventeen in number, were assembled; they marched 400 strong to this meeting; they forced their way into the middle of it; they then assaulted the
 940
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  expressed his regret that he had not been in his place on a former day, when the hon.
 942 l. s. d. l. s. l. l. l.
 Mr. Randall Plunkett  thought the Amendment proposed by the noble Lord would not make the matter any better, and he moved that the Clause be expunged from the Bill.
 Mr. O'Connell  supported the Clause, and contended that the beneficial interest intended by the Reform Bill was one of 10 l.
 Mr. Morgan J. O'Connell,  on the Motion that the debate on the Kerry Election Petition be resumed, rose to complain that the petition was a series of either misrepresentations or falsehoods. He denied altogether that the Knight of Kerry had lost the election through intimidation, either by himself, his political friends, or the priests in that county. That placards had been exhibited of a party nature was natural at a disputed election in Ireland, but that there had been any attempt to intimidate by affixing the emblem of a death's head and cross bones over the doors of those who chose to vote for his opponent was most untrue. As to the circumstances stated in the petition as having taken place upon the Sunday previous to the election in the chapel of Listowel, it was proved to be untrue even by the circumstance of its having never been mentioned as a charge against him or his friends during the heat of the election upon the hustings by any one opposed to him. The placard called "the Patriot's Curse," said to have been exhibited there, was a shameless forgery, and, strange to say, appeared in the London paper,  The Times,
 Mr. O'Connell  regretted that so much attention had been paid to such a piece of impudent mendacity—such an outrage of common sense. There had been in this case a petition under the Grenville Act, and in support of that witnesses might have been examined. If the petitioner spoke the truth he would now have been sitting in that House. Up to the last hour, even when the day of ballot came, he alleged that he could prove his allegations; but when the opportunity was afforded him he retired. Of another Knight it was said, that—
 "He loves and he rides away;" "He hates and he rides away." The Times,
 Mr. William Ord  wished to say that he had not stated that the Knight of Kerry had brought the subject of the "Patriot's Curse" before the Committee—it was mentioned by a stipendiary magistrate.
 Dr. Lushington  was satisfied, from experience, that if they passed the Bill in its present form, and allowed marriages voidable for the future to continue, they would increase the number of these marriages between persons within the prohibited degrees at least tenfold. They insured to these parties all the rights appertaining to marriage, and held out an inducement to all men and women to place themselves in this state of uncertainty. It would be better on every account at once to declare such marriages void. He objected to proceeding with a general measure till they had had time to consider it in all its bearings on society. One of the great objects in a Marriage Law was to take care that it was recognised by all other
 951
 Mr. Wakley  said, he knew very little of this Bill, which had passed the House of Lords without discussion, and had reached the second reading without observation in that House. If the Bill was intended to apply generally to England unless proper Amendments were introduced he should divide the House against the Motion, for it seemed to him that it was intended not only to prevent the publication of lectures but of criticisms on lectures. Again, if it were intended to apply only to private lectures it would be a proper protection, but if it were meant to shield public as well as private from public inspection he should consider that it ought not to receive the sanction of the House. In the present state of the law no such protection was needed; for it was laid down by Lord Eldon, that private lectures could be protected if it were proved there was a breach of implied contract between the lecturer and the individual hearers. In the case of Abernethy  v. 954
 The Lord Advocate  said, the principle of the Bill was this, that every man had as much right to claim security for his lectures, as for his books, or any other fruit of his labours or his ingenuity. And that no man coming merely with the professed object of gaining instruction, should have the right of publishing those lectures which were (or ought to be) the lecturer's own property; some of them perhaps the result of the studies or the labour of a whole life, and worth often upwards of a 1,000 l.
 Mr. Warburton  knew of no abstract right of property in those cases, the public good was the only test by which they could decide. The case of lectures was not the same as that of copyright in books for there was no monopoly exercised so as to exclude the publication of unpublished writings, but in lectures those who attended the professors in the different sciences had no option, in many cases pupils must attend the lectures, and if they failed in obtaining that information which they required, surely they ought not to be precluded from holding the lecturer up to public censure.
 Mr. Law  disagreed to the Amendment in the Committee. To throw a veil over the fact was beneficial to society; to make provision against future cases was equally so. He hoped the House would assent to the proposition of the hon. and learned Member for Exeter for restoring this Clause. Without prejudice to future legislation as to the degrees within which marriages might be contracted, he thought that, till that was done, it was charity and mercy to parties to say that these marriages should not be contracted, and should not depend on any caprice. The legislature pronounced them void to prevent injury to the parties.
 Lord John Russell : I cannot but be exceedingly glad that the hon. Member is so anxious to be ranked among the supporters of Ministers.—[Mr.  G. F. Young:
 Colonel Perceval  contended that there were many reasons why the Knight of Kerry should not have taken any other course than that which he had adopted, and amongst the number was the expense attendant on any other proceeding. The conduct of the Roman Catholic clergy in Kerry had much influence upon the election adverse to Mr. Fitzgerald, and the language they used was of a most violent and inflammatory description, in some cases amounting to a threat of a denial of the rites of the church to any person voting in favour of Mr. Fitzgerald.
 Colonel Perceval  was instructed to state that this petition was numerously and most respectably signed, and he believed such to be the fact. The hon. Member would seem to insinuate that the respectability was all on one side. He would admit that the opposite petition had respectable signatures to it, but so had this. These parties had attended the meeting in the Coburg-gardens at the express invitation of the Trades' Union, who promised them that they should not be molested, and that each side should be heard. Instead of that, they were attacked by armed men, and treated as the petitioners described. He should state that they went totally unarmed to the meeting.
 Mr. Divett  could not consent to alter the Clause with a view to prevent the Bill being thrown out in the other House. He considered it to be a most improper compromise, and could not conceive that they would discuss the Bill under more favourable circumstances hereafter than now. On the whole, as it was impossible at present to go into the consideration of the Marriage Law, so as to define accurately what should hereafter be the degrees of affinity, he could see no reason, nor justice in rejecting the Bill without that Clause; and in thus refusing to do an act of justice to the unfortunate persons now in a state of uncertainty and suspense. He should, therefore, resist the proposition of the hon. and learned Member for Exeter.
 Mr. Fitzstephen French  said, he did not mean to press the first amendment of which he had given notice. The second Clause, however, by way of amendment, he felt bound to take the sense of the house upon, because he thought it of essential importance that the practice, as regarded polling places in Ireland, should be assimilated to that which prevailed in England. He had often discussed this subject before, therefore he should not now detain the house upon it; he would only say, that by reference to a Parliamentary Guide, published by Mr. Moss, a book that contained more valuable information on this subject than any he had seen, it would be found from the number of registered voters in the counties, that it would be impossible without increasing the number of polling places, to give all the voters an opportunity of exercising their franchise. The Clause he had to submit was—"And
 945
 Mr. Mullins,  thought he should neglect his duty were he not to defend his constituents against accusations like these. He could confirm all the statements of the
 947
 Mr. Sinclair,  in presenting a Petition from Thurso in favour of the Church of Scotland, could not help expressing his unqualified admiration of the intrepid and independent tone assumed at this crisis by the General Assembly. They had acted with a spirit worthy of the best ages of that Church, and had vindicated its honour with a cordiality of feeling, which nearly approached to unanimity—there having been only found three Members in opposition to 90, who ventured to defend such a nomination of Commissioners as his
 937 938
 Mr. George F. Young : I have voted with the noble Lord with great pleasure, and I never separate myself from him without great regret.
 Mr. George F. Young : I wish to ask a question of the noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Russell.) In a discussion, a few nights ago, on the composition of the York Bribery Committee, the noble Lord, referring to my humble name, placed it erroneously among the ranks of his opponents, and said that in four divisions out of five, it would be
 941
 Mr. Warburton  said, the first Clause of
 952
 Mr. Praed  said, it could not be expected that Mr. Fitzgerald should himself have been at the expense of proving that intimidation which was quite a public concern, as much so as the Great Yarmouth and the York cases.
 Dr. Bowring  said, that when the rejection of a Clause would peril a Bill so beneficial, he could not make up his mind to do so, and thus sacrifice a certain good. With respect to what his hon. and learned Friend had said as to the law of marriage on the Continent, he must, with great respect, differ from him. Whatever might be the state of the Marriage Law in those states, he was sure that their usages were very much like those of England and that marriage, within the prohibited degrees of consanguinity, were almost universal. He considered that the Bill would introduce tranquillity where all had hitherto been anxiety and unhappiness; and inasmuch as it thus accomplished a certain good with respect to marriages already solemnised, he could not with reference to the uncertain future, reject so much real benefit as the Bill would certainly produce.
 Mr. Poulter  contended that it was impossible at present to deal adequately with the subject under all the present circumstances. In the month of August, to pronounce affirmatively all those marriages null and void, and then in the next Session to bring in a Bill declaring some exceptions to be absolutely good and valid, appeared so inconsistent, that he could only account for it on the supposition that the second Clause was inserted as a kind of set-off, to purchase the consent of some parties to the first. It was evident they did not proceed from the same mind, and he did not consider it was a good mode of legislation to purchase the remedial part of the Bill at the expense of the second Clause; it was well known that all those prohibited degrees of affinity arose out of a statute of Henry 7th., a more absurd law than which never existed. On the whole, he must again protest against the whole of the second Clause, unless his hon. and learned Friend would strike out all the words referring to degrees of consanguinity, thus leaving it open to them in the next Session to consider the whole subject with proper deliberation.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the letter referred to had been addressed to him by an English gentleman, who stated that those men came in a body armed with bludgeons—that they penetrated to the middle of the meeting, and that they then began to use their weapons; whereupon the people attacked them, took their arms from them, and beat them severely, many having been driven from the field with broken heads. He had every confidence in the gentleman from whom this statement came. He hoped that his Majesty's Government would take measures to put down those Orange Lodges, the source of perpetual turmoil and disturbance in Ireland.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  hoped that he might be allowed to present the Petition which the counting out of the House on Saturday prevented. It was a petition from the undersigned bankers, &c, inhabitants of Dublin, complaining of the treatment they had received from a mob at the meeting in Coburg-gardens in Dublin, on the 12th inst.; also complaining of their meeting at the Hall of the Guild of Merchants having been disturbed by a similar mob, and praying for protection to the Protestants of Ireland in exercising the right of petition.
 Mr. Pease  said, he could not think that marriage was such a contract as should be subject to a Clause like that proposed. He was as much against marriage between persons within the degrees of consanguinity as any one; but he was not prepared to say that, after a marriage had been solemnized, it ought to be done away, because the persons who had contracted it were within the prohibited degrees.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the Bishop of the diocese would immediately punish such conduct on part of Catholic clergymen, and contended it could not have been practised.
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  said, that the Knight of Kerry was a Member of that same Government which instituted the investigation into the subject just mentioned.
 Mr. O'Loghlen  proposed a declaratory clause, giving power to adjourn the polling in case of violence.—Agreed to.
 Mr. O'Loghlen  supported the Clause.
 Mr. O'Loghlen  felt great difficulty in agreeing to place the polling in Ireland under the control of a Sheriff's deputy, away from the presence of the Sheriff himself, which this Clause, if carried would do.
 Mr. Sheil  thought it right that the House and the public should know that there was an Orange Lodge established in, the 35th Regiment, at present quartered in Templemore, county of Tipperary. He had received a letter from Rev. Mr. Laffan, Roman Catholic clergyman of that place, stating that on a recent occasion the soldiers belonging to the Orange Lodge in that regiment had rushed into the streets with drawn bayonets, expressing their anxiety that they might meet with a Catholic priest to put him to death, and that they committed various outrages an the Roman Catholics of the town. He hoped that the Government would make immediate inquiry into this matter.
 Mr. Wyse  considered that by adopting this Amendment the House would only be following out the principle of the Reform Bill. It had been tried in England where it had answered exceedingly well, and he could see no objection to the introduction of the system into Ireland.
 Mr. Ewart  complained of the inconsistency of making these marriages void at one time and legal at another. Though he considered the Bill as an act of partial legislation, his hon. Friend should be satisfied with having a partial good.
 Sir William Follett  said, that if this
 943 l. s. bonâ fide l. l. l.
 Sir William Follett  wished to make a few observations upon this occasion as to his intentions with regard to this Bill. Under the existing state of the law marriages, within a certain degree of consanguinity, were prohibited, and were by the Ecclesiastical Law declared void; but then the Ecclesiastical Courts did not act unless a suit were instituted in the lifetime of the parties. And what was the effect of that? Parties married within the prohibited degrees of consanguinity—lived together as husband and wife—and had children; it was at the option of any person, though in one particular mode of proceeding, to make that marriage invalid, and the children illegitimate! And worse than that, it was at the option of either of the parties, indirectly to get the marriage declared invalid. It was agreed on all hands that that was a state of the law which ought not to exist. Those marriages ought either to be declared void, or made valid altogether; and a contract of so solemn a nature ought not to be left at the mercy of the interest, or the temper of any other person. Now what did this Bill do? It made all such marriages for the future absolutely null and void, that was the main object of the Bill. Some hon. Members said that there were some particular degrees of affinity within which marriage should be permitted. Suppose that were the case, the object of the Bill was to prevent uncertainty in the Marriage Law; and the proper course, therefore, would be, to declare those marriages at once good and valid. This Bill made no such exception; though he was aware that the division the other night proceeded on the principle that there was one particular
 949 950
 Lord Clements  proposed, by way of Amendment, that the meaning of the words "beneficial interest" should be more clearly defined by the insertion of words to the effect, that such interest should be a beneficial interest to the value of 10 l.
 Viscount Morpeth  observed that he felt very well inclined to agree to the principle of the proposed clause, but he was not prepared to sanction its insertion in this Bill. There were a great many experiments introduced by this Act, and he considered it inexpedient to make any further changes which he was not quite sure could be effected with success. He admitted that if he found a great concurrence of opinion on the part of the Irish Members in favour of this clause, he should be disposed to waive his objection to it; but, on the contrary, if he found a great variety of opinions on this subject amongst the representatives of Irish counties and boroughs, and, if anything, a prevailing opinion against the adoption of the clause, he should resist its introduction.
 Vicsount Morpeth  said, that the justification of the government in proposing this clause, and the object of the Bill was this—merely a declaration what the amount of the beneficial interest arising out of land should be. He had no objection to the amendment of his noble friend (Lord Clements) to define the meaning more strictly:
 Lord John Russell  said, that his view of the matter was, that Lecturers should have the same protection as Authors had. At the same time he was of opinion that it should be fully competent to newspapers and other publications to make extracts from such lectures, and pass comments upon them, with a view of affording the public an opportunity of judging as to their merits. Unless this permission were accorded he should not support the Bill.
 Mr. Wakley  agreed with the noble Lord, that private Lecturers should have equal protection with authors; but he could not see that such Lecturers as those at St. Bartholomew's Hospital (who on the aggregate derived an income of 8,000 l.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  wished to put two questions to the President of the Board of Trade. About six months ago, a memorial had been presented from the iron manufacturers of South Wales, pointing out the serious evils likely to arise to them from the increase of the tariff on iron in the kingdom of Han-
 1088
 Mr. Villiers  said, that what had fallen from the noble Lord respecting the necessity of an improved police and magistracy, had given him great satisfaction, and he was sure that it would give great satisfaction to his constituents. The want of competent magistrates was a great evil throughout the country; but he believed that there was no district of equal extent and population, where the want of efficient local authority was more deeply felt than it was at Wolverhampton. He was glad to hear the opinion now expressed by the noble Lord, as if acted upon, it would go far to remedy the evil for which he should have been anxious to direct his attention to the results of the recent inquiry.
 Mr. Thorneley  was understood to intimate that he would decline bringing forward any motion on the subject.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved the third reading of a Bill for carrying into effect a measure agreed to with the Government of Sardinia for suppressing the Slave Trade.
 Mr. Thorneley  said, that the conclusion to which he came on reading the evidence was, that the Riot Act ought not to have been read, and the military ought not to have been sent as they were, through the streets, for there was no riot except at the Market-place and opposite the Hotel. His object was to prevent interferences of this kind. He believed that this House, and he was sure that the country at large, felt great jealousy on the subject of military interference. The resolution he had intended to move was, "That this House having taken into its consideration the minutes of evidence taken at Wolverhampton, as to the proceedings which occurred at the close of the South Staffordshire election, and the introduction of the military into that borough, on the 27th May last, when several persons were wounded, is of opinion that measures should be immediately adopted to secure the administration of justice and the preservation of the peace in that borough, without resorting to military force." But at present he was inclined to think it would be most advisable not to make such a motion. He would, however, wait to hear the noble Lord's explanation.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved that the Report of the Stamps and Assessed Taxes' Bill be brought up.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would never consent to reduce a tax by means of an issue of Exchequer Bills, for the money to which his hon. Friend alluded was but a fund remaining of unissued Exchequer Bills.
 Mr.O'Connell  said, that the House might also apply the 750,000 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose for the purpose of moving, not that the amendments only be printed, according to the usual course, but that the whole Bill, as amended, be printed; and said, that that was the only way in which the measure—a new measure in some respects, and certainly one requiring full consideration—could be discussed. He trusted that that arrangement would be productive of no serious delay, as he expected that copies of the measure would be in the hands of Members by Monday next, when it should, he proposed, be taken into consideration. It was at all events extremely desirable that they should have it before them in a complete state, for the purpose of well-considering a measure which had attracted more attention within that House, and, indeed, had excited more interest out of that House, than any piece of legislation which, since the passing of the Reform Bill, had been propounded. Such being the case, he trusted that he might take the liberty of earnestly recommending hon. Gentlemen not to enter, at the present moment, into a discussion which could not be productive of any possible good, and which could be only in anticipation of that most serious discussion which must take place when the Bill was in their hands after being printed, when they would have not only to express opinions but to come to a decision upon the subject. He trusted, he would again say, the question being one of such interest and magnitude, that the House would not think that he was acting in any shape improperly or unbecomingly, as one of those most friendly to the Bill as it was sent from that House, if he took the liberty of earnestly entreating the House to postpone at present a discussion which could lead to no good result, and which might impede the fair, calm, and deliberate but resolute decision upon the subject. He would, therefore,
 1094
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the period was now come, in which the public opinion could not be trifled with—in which the wants of this great country could not be looked at slightingly—and in which, if great organic questions affecting the constitution of the country came to be considered, the blame would fall on those who had given rise to such a convulsive discussion—if he might use the expression—and not on those who had endeavoured peaceably to ameliorate its institutions.
 Mr. O' Connell  hoped, that the Bill would be allowed to go forward as it had commenced—as a public Bill. The House had permitted it to be brought in as such, it had been read a second time as such, Counsel had been heard before their Bar instead of before a Committee, which would have been the proper place had the Bill been regarded as a private one; and now when the opponents of the Bill were beaten on its merits, and had not an argument left to stand on, they turned round and met it with a miserable technicality, Really it was high time that such courses as these should be laid aside; they were unworthy the character of a tribunal of justice; and if ever there was a case in which they were unbecoming this was one. It was said, too, that there was no time to consider the subject properly during the present Session. Why should there not be time? The evidence lay in a very small compass, and the House might hear it and determine on the amount of compensation that should be given, in a single sitting. There was always time for justice, if persons were but willing to employ it for that purpose. For himself, he must say, that he thought a clearer case of robbery had never been established than that which had been perpetrated towards Mr. Buckingham. Not even the history of the Colonies—bad as it was—could present another such case of unparalleled wrongs; for after the acquittal by the Government for four of the articles complained of—and acquittal by a jury for the fifth—he is banished for a-sixth article which so far from being an improper one, was a mere anticipation of the very judgment passed by the India Directors themselves. It condemned, in very mild and gentle terms, the appointment of a Scotch
 1097
 The Solicitor-General  said, that Mr. Buckingham had been warned of the consequences of the course which he was pursu-
 1098
 Dr. Baldwin  thought it right to say, that though he did not object to the conduct of the House of Lords in altering and amending Bills sent to them, he did object to their invasion of the rights of the people, and to their resistance to the restitution of the rights of the people. They had gone to this extent with regard to the Municipal Reform Bill; and so far the conduct of the House of Lords had been unconstitutional. He hoped that the House of Commons would take proper measures to prevent the mutilation of the Corporation Reform Bill.
 Mr. Scarlett  begged to say, in answer to the hon. Member who spoke last, that the offensive parts of the Municipal Corporations' Bill had been carried by a majority of Scotch and Irish Members, and not by a majority of English Members. When that hon. Member talked of an infringement of rights, he (Mr. Scarlett) would ask, when was a more violent attack made upon rights than by this very measure? It amounted to an abolition of all franchises; and were not the franchises of the people the rights of the people? Was it fit, then, to attack the House of Lords for defending the rights and privileges of the people? He contended, that such language ought not to be used.
 Mr. Scarlett  objected to the time at which this Motion was brought forward. The object of it seemed to be to cast reflections upon the House of Lords; for, if the hon. and learned Gentleman really wanted information, he could have obtained it by inquiring of any Member of the other House. As to the Imprisonment for Debt Bill, their Lordships had exercised a very proper discretion. It created a complete revolution in the law upon a very important subject, and did not give satisfaction to the country. A relative of his, a Member of the other House, he knew had paid a great deal of attention to the Bill relating to the execution of wills in Committee.
 Lord John Russell  said, the hon. Member for Wolverhampton had given notice of a Motion to the effect that he would direct the attention of the House to the evidence taken in the inquiry into the recent occurrences at Wolverhampton. As the evidence was very voluminous, perhaps the hon. Gentleman would state what was the particular point to which he desired to call the attention of the House.
 Lord John Russell  said, it appeared from the evidence, that the magistrate acted to the best of his ability. He was as sensible, however, now, as he was when out of office, of the great evil of calling in the military unnecessarily to put down rioting; but if
 1091
 Colonel Perceval  thought the Motion of the learned Gentleman was an un-called for interference with the other House.
 Mr. Hawes  was sorry their Lordships meant to stop the Bill for abolishing Imprisonment for Debt. If that was the course they meant to pursue to entitle themselves to the respect and confidence of the country, he wished their Lordships joy of their sagacity. That Bill placed the property of the peer and the peasant under the same control of creditors, and that was the reason of their Lordships' hostility to it. This was candidly stated in one of the principal speeches against the measure. For his part he was not disappointed, for he expected such a result. With regard to the two Bills which were the subject of this Motion, he thought that House and the public were under great obligations to the Attorney-General for the pains he had taken in introducing and carrying those measures, and other improvements of the law, through the House.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  would endeavour to give the hon. Member an answer. As to the first question, as soon as he had received information that the Hanoverian Government had actually carried into effect what it had threatened some years ago, a remonstrance was made by the Board to which he belonged. He had communicated with the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, and the Hanoverian Minister had been informed, that if the discriminating duty were persevered in, Great Britain would feel it necessary to retaliate by means of an Order in Council, which would place the productions of Hanover on the same footing. The Hanoverian Minister left this country immediately afterwards, and the answer of his Government had not yet been received; but he could assure the House that he should feel no hesitation in recommending the course which the Act had placed in the discretion of the Crown. The attempt had been made in this way; the increased duty was laid upon rolled iron, not exactly specifying English iron, but the effect was the same, and the Hanoverian Government had followed the example of America with a slight difference, but clearly bringing the tariff within the terms of a discriminating duty. As to the second question, he regretted much to state that no progress with regard to improving our commercial relations with France had lately been made—certainly not that progress which he (Mr. Poulett Thomson) had had reason to expect would have been made by the French Government. He had had the honour of stating, on a former occasion, that steps had been
 1089 1090
 Mr. Tulk  would be quite prepared to act upon the suggestion of the hon. Member for Bridport (Mr. Warburton) if it were understood that, on the introduction of the Bill next Session, the first and second reading should not be opposed.
 Mr. Charles Wood  admitted that the statement concerning the prevalence of the traffic in slaves in the island of Cuba was but too true: the best proof of the activity of the Government in endeavouring to repress it was to be found in the several captures which had been lately made. Negotiations were, however, going on at that moment with Spain, for the purpose of effecting a new treaty; and as they were still incomplete, he could not at present enter into them.
 Mr. Charlton  thought it a great pity that this petition had not the addresses of the persons who sent them to the House attached to them. The charge brought against the House of Lords was most unjustifiable  [cries of "Oh."]
 Mr. Charlton  said, that by the letter in his possession, he was informed, that one boy had signed the petition four or five times; he was mistaken, he had read the letter in haste, and on referring to it again he found it asserted, that this boy had signed the petition nine times. The letter containing this fact was from the High Bailiff of Ludlow, and he hoped that the hon. Member was satisfied with this authority. The hon. Member had alluded to him (Mr. Charlton) as appearing in a new character; he appeared in the same character he had
 1087
 Mr. Charlton  had not the least objection that his political sentiments should be brought under discussion. He had done what he could to promote a Reform in Parliament; and he believed that he had been a Member of the Birmingham Union; but he had never been a very zealous Member, and had never been present at any of its meetings. Even if he had attended them, what then? He had belonged to it to promote Reform, and not to produce revolution, and to set up a republic in the country, which seemed to be the object of the promoters of the Municipal Reform Bill. The hon. Member who had attacked him was one of the most prominent of the promoters of that measure; it was good for nothing but to produce a revolution, and to establish a republic, and in spite of the hint of the hon. Member, he would do his utmost to resist it.
 Mr. Baines  approved entirely of the principle of the Bill, and hoped to have seen it pass into a law. But if the right hon. Baronet (Sir John Hobhouse) insisted on pressing his technical objection, of course the Bill could not be proceeded with any farther during the present Session. Under these circumstances, he should advise his hon. Friend (Mr. Tulk) to withdraw it for the present, and re-introduce it as a private Bill early in the next Session. He could not sit down, however, without saying that stronger or clearer claim to compensation had never in his mind been made out, than had been established by Mr. Buckingham. He (Mr. Baines) had attended all the sittings of the Committee—he had heard all the evidence while it was proceeding, and he had read it all over carefully since, and no conviction was ever deeper on his mind than this—that in all Mr. Buckingham's conduct in India, in the management of his Journal, his moderation had been exemplary in the extreme, there was not an article that could be characterized as inflammatory, intemperate, or unfair; and he doubted whether any journal could be named, in which so uniform a course of mild and temperate argument—and fair and impartial statement of facts could be found. Yet, notwithstanding this, his punishment had been more severe than had ever before been inflicted on any public writer of whom he had ever heard—banishment from all his property and friends, and utter ruin of all his hopes and prospects; these were the rewards heaped upon him for all his careful and honourable exertions to promote the good of his country. If the parties could come to no terms, he did hope that the hon. Member for Poole (Mr. Tulk) would persevere in his intention of bringing in the Bill as a private Bill in the earliest part of the next Session, when it should have his most cordial support, as he doubted not it would that of the House at large; for it was impossible that hon. Members could make themselves acquainted with the facts without giving the claims their most cordial support.
 Mr. Strutt  could not help thinking that the hon. Member for Ludlow had displayed an unnecessary degree of warmth, especially in complaining of the attack upon the Corporation of Ludlow. Although the hon. Member now appeared as the defender of the Corporation, if report spoke truly, it was not long since he had been its inveterate opponent, and had been most successful in remedying some of its abuses. He could only say, that he had received the petition, accompanied by a letter from a gentleman worthy of credit, and well known to the hon. Member for Ludlow. The petition before the House had 600 signatures.
 Mr. Strutt  presented a Petition, numerously signed, from Ludlow, calling upon the House to resist the vile and desperate attempt of the Peers to stop Reform, and praying the House not to agree to the Lords' Amendments to the Corporation Reform Bill.
 Mr. Robinson , as a proprietor of India Stock, protested against the power of the House to compel the East-India Company to make compensation.
 Mr. Aglionby  hoped that some understanding might be come to that the Bill should in the next Session be allowed to pass the second reading, as the House was clearly in favour of the principle, and the details could be settled in Committee.
 Mr. Warburton  was entirely in favour of the principle of the Bill; but viewing it as a private and not a public Bill, he did not know how it could be proceeded with in the present Session. If the House one broke through the broad and plain principle, and chose to regard as a public Bill that which every man must feel and know to be a private Bill, there would be no end to the jobs that would be attempted to be passed through the House; though he did not by any means say that this was one, as it had been clearly conducted with the greatest
 1109
 The Speaker  conceived that he had no right whatever to stop the debate. He begged to slate, however—what indeed he had before observed—that he considered the Bill to be a private one, and to repeat that, being a private Bill, if it were to be proceeded with this Session, it was necessary, in compliance with the Standing Orders of the House, that seven clear days' notice should be given between the second reading and the committal, whether to a Committee of the whole House, or to a Committee up stairs. That being the case, he could only put it to the House whether it would be possible to proceed with the Bill at this period of the Session.
 The Speaker  observed that the Motion before the House did not relate to the measure for the Abolition of Imprisonment for Debt, and the discussion therefore of that measure was irregular. The course proposed with regard to the other Bills was the simple and most usual course in such cases.
 The Speaker  was understood to reply that it was undoubtedly a private Bill.
 The Speaker  was understood to say that the further consideration of this Bill, though a private one, was not shut out by the Standing Order which had been read; for the House had it in its power to dispense with such order if it pleased; and this very day the Royal Assent had been given to several private Bills introduced without compliance with such order.
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that his hon. Friends, the Members for Leeds and Boston, had anticipated to a great degree what he himself had intended to say. He was sorry that this unexpected obstacle of a technical objection had arisen; though to be defeated thus, by such an obstacle being interposed in the eleventh hour, was less painful than being beaten on the merits of the case, which happily stood untouched. He should concur, therefore, in the propriety of not pressing the Bill further during the present Session; he hoped that in the next Session of Parliament, when the subject would be more generally understood, and more time would be allowed for its discussion, such an impression would be made on the minds of hon. Members, as to ensure for the Bill that favourable reception which would ensure its passing into a law. In the mean time, he should still be open to any fair and honourable compromise; but if that still were refused him, he should persevere, while he had life, until justice was done him.
 Mr. Buckingham  resumed, and said he could repeat, with the greatest confidence, the statement he had just made. His own recollection of the matter was perfectly distinct and clear, however faint might be the recollection of the right hon. Gentle-
 1102 ex post facto 1103 1104 1105 1106 1107 1108
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that it was with great reluctance that he presented himself to the notice of the House on this occasion; but in doing so he was actuated by two powerful motives, each of them, he believed, of sufficient force to satisfy the House that he was justified in the course he was about to take. This first motive was a desire to set himself right with the House as to certain personal imputations that he thought had been most unjustly cast upon him by the right hon. President of the Board of Control; and his second motive was a desire to save the time of the House and shorten the discussion, by putting them in possession of the main facts of the case in as brief and connected a form as the extent over which it was necessarily spread could admit. On these two grounds he in treated the indulgence of the House while he addressed to them the few observations which he thus felt it his duty to offer. The right hon. Baronet had, in his first speech, delivered on the introduction of the Bill now before the House about a week ago, deprecated the presence of any hon. Member during a debate on a question in which he was himself personally interested; and complained of his (Mr. Buckingham's) presence as being unprecedented and embarrassing; and he had next described the measures taken by Mr. Buckingham to put hon. Members in possession of his case, by sending them a printed paper, and to ensure their attendance by issuing a written circular, as wholly inconsistent with the character of a Member of Parliament. Now these were very grave accusations, and such as, if substantiated, would deservedly prejudice him in the eyes of his constituents and the country, and indeed render him unworthy to sit among those by whom he was now surrounded. He therefore felt it his duty now to rise in his place, and give these imputations his most strenuous and most unqualified contradiction. But he would not content himself with this; he would shew to the House that he was acting on well-established precedents, on examples of the
 1099 Calcutta Journal l. 1100 1101
 Mr. Praed  opposed the Bill, and deprecated the idea of asking the President of the India Board to make any agreement on the subject.
 Mr. Wilks  feared there was now no course left but to withdraw the Bill for the
 1111
 Mr. Wilks  concurred in every word that had been uttered by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin; and added his earnest prayer that the House would not suffer justice to be defeated by a mere technicality. He was familiar with the subject from the beginning, and he had watched its progress to the end: and he must say, that he had never entertained but one opinion on it, which was this—that Mr. Buckingham was most unjustly, oppressively, and cruelly deprived of his personal liberty and ruined in his property, not only without having committed any fault, but for conduct which did him the highest honour, and which could never be mentioned but to his praise. The facts were so familiar to the people of England generally, that this was the almost universal sentiment: and his conviction was, that the conduct of the right, hon. Baronet (Sir John Hobhouse) in opposing this just and reasonable claim would excite the greatest astonishment wherever it was known, if even stronger feelings were not engendered by it. Mr. Buckingham, he would contend, had acted with the greatest delicacy in not pressing these claims forward before. He sincerely hoped that the Bill would be allowed to go forward as a public Bill, and secure the sanction of the House at least in the present Session.
 Mr. Hume  was really surprised that the right hon. Baronet, the President of the India Board, should raise a technical objection to a Bill, the principle of which had been admitted by its passing through a second reading. Indeed he must say it was an act of cruelty to Mr. Buckingham to interpose such a technical objection at such a moment as this; for what were the facts of the case? Why these: that the late Cabinet of Lord Grey, composed of very nearly the same members as the present Cabinet of Lord Melbourne, granted a Committee of Inquiry—the Committee reported unanimously that Mr. Buckingham ought to receive compensation—the resolutions being drawn up by the hand of Lord Glenelg, still a Cabinet Minister, and approved by the noble Secretary of State for the Home Department, now the leader of the House of Commons, and yet, in the face of all this, the new President of the India Board, in opposition to his predecessors, as well as to his colleagues, comes forward, after failing to carry the House with him on the merits of the question, to put it aside by a purely technical objection. This conduct of the right hon. Baronet was to him perfectly unaccountable; and he would have done himself more honour if he had come forward manfully, waving all techni-
 1096
 Mr. Hume  concurred with the right hon. Gentleman as to the propriety of considering this, as well as every other measure which came before them, calmly, and with deliberation; but hoped that nothing which had fallen from him would be taken as holding out any idea of a hope that that House could accepting for one moment entertain, the Bill in its existing state. He was against any such hope being for one moment held out—against the supposition that they could for an instant listen to the "amendments," as they were called, which had been made in the measure, or as he should say, the alterations which had altogether ruined it—which had rendered it such that they would be better without than with it. When, however, the copies of the amended Bill should be before them, they would be able to weigh the extent of the evils which the Bill had suffered; for his own part, he believed them to be such as rendered it wholly impossible for the House to agree to it ultimately. He said that with great regret, because they were then, on the 28th August, contemplating the last remnant of the two great measures which had been the result of all their labours during that Session. Time had been lost, excitement had been produced in the minds of the public, and a disappointment bitter in proportion had followed—which could not fail to be productive of the most serious consequences. The right hon. Gentleman had recommended, perhaps, wisely, that there should be no discussion at that period upon the subject. All that he wished was, to enter his protest against being supposed to yield, in the smallest degree, to the propriety of the amendments in question.
 Mr. Hume  said, nothing but the declaring of this trade to be piracy would be effectual in suppressing it.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that when he desired the reduction, he did not contemplate the necessity of providing for any consequent decrease of revenue; on the contrary he
 1093
 Mr. Hume  took the opportunity of suggesting to the right hon. Gentleman, who had declined to repeal the Stamp-duty upon newspapers, on the ground of wanting funds, the propriety of devoting to that purpose the sum of 350,000 l.,
 Mr. Hume  took the opportunity of asking if any measure had been or would be taken to put a stop to the practices at present prevalent in Cuba, where the slave trade was in a very flourishing condition—where, indeed, every vessel sailing to the coast of Africa might be insured for a fixed rate of percentage! The French flag had wholly disappeared in connexion with this traffic,
 1092 l.
 Mr. Potter  was not a Republican; he was anxious only for good Government, and he was satisfied that the Municipal Reform Bill would effect that object.
 Mr. Potter  said, that if he were not much mistaken the hon. Member once belonged to the Birmingham Political Union; he had himself been a Member of it, and he had supposed that the hon. Gentleman was one of its most thorough-going Members. Now that the hon. Member had changed sides, he did not seem more moderate in the opposite direction.
 The Attorney-General  complained of the high duty imposed on the introduction of Scotch shawls into France, and requested the right hon. Gentleman to interfere on the subject.
 The Attorney-General  rose in pursuance of notice, to move for the appointment of a Select Committee to search the journals of the House of Lords in order to ascertain, if possible, what had become of two very important measures sent from that House (the Commons) to the other. He hoped this Motion would not be deemed disrespectful towards their Lordships, and that it would not be expected, that after passing Bills, and carrying them to the House of Lords, the Commons might not reasonably feel disappointment at hearing no more of them. A very important Bill, as the House was aware, a Bill for the abolition of imprisonment for debt, had been sent from that House up to the Lords, and as to that Bill he was in a condition to tell the House what had become of it. He understood that that very important Bill was not to pass their Lordships' House until they had examined witnesses upon it. Probably, in accordance with precedent, their Lordships would call to their Bar all the bum-bailiffs—all the gaolers—the gentlemen who served the useful purposes of sham bail— and all the attorneys; and from these truth-
 1112 1113
 Sir John Hobhouse  rose and said, he certainly did not recollect having stated what had been described. He had no doubt that he had so stated it, as the hon. Gentleman Mr. Buckingham) asserted it, but it had certainly since escaped his recollection.
 Sir John Hobhouse  said, that having stated distinctly and with earnestness he was opposed to the principle of the Bill, he knew not how such a pledge could be required from him. He begged to observe, that Mr. Buckingham was mistaken when he supposed that his (Sir John Hobhouse's) opposition was merely  ex officio.
 Sir John Hobhouse  said, that he was anxious to know from the Speaker whether this was to be considered a private or a public Bill.
 Sir John Hobhouse  said, that the objection he had stated was no technical one, but an objection which had been very properly taken by the Counsel for the East-India Company when they were heard at the Bar. If this Bill were to be proceeded with, contrary to the established rules of the House in the case of private Bills, the East-India Company would not have time to get up their case. Justice could not be done to either party, unless the question were referred to a Committee up stairs, and it would not be possible that a determination could be come to by such a Committee during the present Session.
 Sir John Hobhouse  begged to read one of the Standing Orders with respect to the reception of private Bills. It was laid down in the standing Order, which he read to the House, that the House would not receive any petition for a private Bill after the 13th of March; that no private Bill should be read a first time after the 13th of April; and that no Report should be received after the 13th of June. He thought, therefore, that this Standing Order of the House precluded their proceeding with this Bill.
 Mr. Pryme  agreed in the objections stated by the hon. Member for Wigan, and he could not tell why a Clause empowering the House to grant a loan should have been
 1115
 Mr. Wallace  said, that there had been a sum of money voted for Portpatrick harbour which might very well be dispensed with, and given to the deepening of the Shannon, or any other useful national purpose. Laying it out at Portpatrick, was in plain English, throwing it into the sea—it was throwing away good money after bad; and he would therefore move, on bringing up the Appropriation Clause, that no more money be expended on Portpatrick harbour.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would state the grounds on which this preamble was framed, in order most particularly to meet the objections of the hon. Member for Bridport, to whose authority on these subjects he was disposed, both in and out of the House, to pay the most respectful attention. This Bill was introduced in consequence of several repeated inquiries by Committees of that House, but the Bill did not carry out to their full effect the recommendations of those Committees. He did not propose to the House to do this, and if it had been proposed by others he would not have approved of it. The recommendation of the Committee was, that there should be a vote of public money for this purpose—absolutely pledging the House not only to the principle, but to a
 1116 onus Pryme: 1117
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, that the hon. and gallant Officer laboured under some mistake. The people to whom he alluded might have seen the new clothes of the police and the soldiers; they might also have seen the hon. and gallant Officer himself; and, if so, they must not only have seen new clothes, but clothes cut in the highest and newest style of fashion. He challenged the hon. Member for Scarborough to state what interest the people of Ireland had ever derived from their connexion with England. Their debt had been increased in consequence; and up to the commencement of the existence of the present Administration he defied any hon. Member to show any act that had been done for the good of Ireland. Ireland was perhaps the most fertile country in the world, and yet what was the general state of the inhabitants? They were in a state of the greatest misery, owing to bad laws. The present Ministry were anxious to do all they could to alleviate the distresses of that unhappy country, but what was the use of that when a sort of stop-gap existed elsewhere? If he were told that but for England his country could not find a market for its provisions, what would be his reply? Why, that but for Ireland this country would be without a market for its manufactures. The people of Ireland were a patient people, and he only wished his voice were loud enough to be heard elsewhere, in order that he might beg that their patience should be considered, and their grievances
 1118
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  meant to occupy the House only for a short period, while he explained the object of the Bill which it was his intention to ask leave to introduce. He must, in the first instance, justify himself for introducing such a Bill at this late period of the Session; nor would the Government have taken such a course if a direct and positive necessity for doing so had not been fairly made out. Indeed, they had abstained from exercising their discretion in this respect so long as there remained a chance—so long as the possibility of a hope existed—that the great Question which had occupied so much of the attention of the House during the present Session—he meant the great Question relating to the Irish Church—was likely to be brought to a settlement by a satisfactory Act of the Legislature. Had such an Act been passed, this Bill would of course, have been unnecessary, but now it had become indispensable, because it would be perceived, by the votes of the other House, that no steps were likely to be taken to forward the Irish Church Bill through Parliament during the present Session, and as that Bill had been abandoned, in point of fact, by his Majesty's Government, upon the ground that it would not be satisfactory in its present shape, and as it did not appear, from the minutes of the
 1120 1121 1122
 Mr. Ruthven  said, that he was prepared to place every confidence in the Government, and that he should offer no opposition to the introduction of this Bill. He thought that those who had defeated the Irish Church Bill would have cause to regret the unwise course which they had taken. There were, he admitted, many things in that measure from which he dissented, but still he, like many others who were as strongly attached to it as it was possible to be, felt it to be his duty to sacrifice personal feeling to the attainment of that which they all had in view, namely, the pacification of Ireland.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was willing to accede to the proposition of his hon Friend.
 Mr. Lynch  said, that the security for the repayment of the loan was as good as could be given.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that he should have no objection to withdraw his Amendment, provided the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, would introduce into the preamble some words which would render it impossible for the Government to call on the House to vote money for this purpose until the estimates were before them.
 Mr. Warburton  did not object to making the grant, but the present Bill was merely for the purpose of appointing Commissioners to obtain an estimate of the expense, and the introduction of such a Clause in it was premature. He put it to the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) whether he could cite any precedent for such a proceeding? It was pledging the House to advance the sum necessary for carrying on these works, whatever that sum might be. There were various conditions necessary to be entered into with the proprietors, and the Government could make a better bargain if the grant was not previously made. The hon. Member concluded by moving the omission of that part of the preamble which authorized the grant.
 Mr. Wilks  must say, that this seemed to him to be not only a very liberal and constitutional, but a very humane measure, and he should be most happy to give it his best support.
 Mr. Potter  did not know whether the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was aware of the objections which had been urged against this Bill by his hon. Friend the Member for Bridport. His hon. Friend complained, that in a measure which merely appointed Commissioners to prepare estimates for the improvement of the navigation of this river, a provision should have been introduced to raise by loan one half the amount which might be required for the work. In that objection he entirely concurred; and, instead of the Government advancing any portion of this money, he conceived that the whole sum should be made a charge on the Irish counties connected with the Shannon, and raised in them by means of assessments. He did not consider that the security for this advance ought to satisfy that House.
 Mr. Ewart  said, that he should give the Bill his warmest and best support. He thought the arguments of the hon. Member for Scarborough were quite inapplicable to the present case; and he trusted, with his hon. Friend the Member for Dublin, that a better feeling would be introduced towards Ireland in another place.
 Sir Frederick Trench  said, that the Bill should also have his support because he knew it would confer a very great benefit on not less than two millions of persons who resided on the banks of the Shannon, but who had never seen a suit of new clothes in their lives. The population of the country along the line of the banks of the Shannon were in a state of heart-rending distress.
 Sir Frederick Trench  would not make
 1119
 Viscount Morpeth  had been led to make that observation in consequence of a very grave debate which had occurred in another place, and which had reached him through the ordinary channels.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the collision between both Houses had commenced. The discussions which had hitherto taken place had partaken of what was called constitutional dissention—the discussion in each House had found a termination in each House; but a rebound had now taken place, and that was what he called collision. It was manifest that something must occur to place the British Legislature in such a situation that instead of going forward, or instead of being met by a series of checks, it should be actually stopped. See what an immense quantity of most useful matter had been stopped in the other House during the present Session. Take England: What had become of the Executors and Administrators' Bill—a Bill of the utmost importance, doing away with some of the grossest absurdities of the law? It was cushioned. What had become of the Execution of Wills Bill? Cushioned. What of the Prisoners' Counsel Bill? Cushioned. What of the Abolition of the Punishment of Death Bill? Cushioned. What of the Imprisonment for Debt Bill? Thrown out. [ "No, no!" 1172 1173 "Not the Aldermen." 1174 1175 1176 1177 1178 cheers
 Mr. Milnes Gaskell  said, that he was at a total loss to reconcile the whole tenour of the speeches which had just been made with the slightest regard for the Constitution of this country in King, Lords, and Commons, which as yet had not been abrogated. But he was glad upon many accounts that these speeches had been made: he was glad, because it made the tactics of the Gentlemen opposite no longer doubtful; and because, in the emphatic language of Mr. Canning, such speeches as these were worth a thousand professions of qualified neutrality. If the debate, however, were to remain confined to those who entertained the opinions which had been expressed by the Members for Dublin and for Bath, he was convinced, that not only would a most unfair index be furnished of the general sense of the House, but what was of much greater importance, that one still more unfair would be furnished of the general sense of the people of this country. The Members for Dublin, and Marylebone, and Bath,
 1179 1180
 Mr. Charles Butter  did not wonder that his hon. Friend should be quite shocked at any intemperate language that might be used; it was, however, fortunate that there existed some temperate and sage men in the House. But he could not understand the extraordinary scruples about one House of Parliament speaking of the other. Three or four years ago, the House of Lords spoke of the House of Commons in no measured terms. But God forbid that any one should think of upsetting the House of Lords. All that he wished to do, was to call the attention of the House to a subject which had already engaged the attention of the people—he meant the necessity of a Reform of the House of Lords. It was well to consider whether it were possible that an unreformed House of Lords could go on with a reformed House of Commons; whether it were possible, after having done away with the irresponsibility of this House, they could go on with an irresponsible House of Lords, tempered as it was with very little respect for the House of Commons. A collision had taken place. It was not a collision of a moment; it was a perpetual collision between two irreconcileable branches of the Government; and it became wise and constitutional men to set themselves about devising a wise, moderate, and constitutional remedy of a permanent nature, for an otherwise permanent evil. With regard to the Amendments, it was said that they had left the principle of the Bill intact. They had done so in words, but they had violated the principle in fact. The whole of the Amendments were hostile to the principle of the Bill. The various alterations made in the Bill by the Lords, were all detrimental to the measure as passed by the Commons. The House, therefore, could not doubt the  animus 1181
 Mr. Wilkes  thought the House should proceed to consider the Lords' Amendments, without any further general discussion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought it incumbent upon the House, under the circumstances, to pass this Bill. As he had stated on Saturday last, it would not suspend the payment of the instalments in every case, but only in instances where nothing had been received by the clergyman. That suspension only extended to such a period as would enable the Government to take the further pleasure of Parliament upon the subject—namely, the 5th of April, 1836; and without this Bill they would be compelled at once to take proceedings against the whole body of the Irish clergy who had received any advance from the million fund.
 Dr. Baldwin  considered that this amendment was, in fact, giving in to the principle of self-election, and he therefore protested against it.
 Mr. Law  could not disguise from himself the utter hopelessness of any further struggle upon this subject, after the declaration of the right hon. Baronet. He thought that the abolition of the privileges and dignities now existing in certain individuals, was the greatest injustice to those individuals. It was not to be supposed that those privileges were worthless, for he could assert that they were great and valuable. He only wished to record his opposition to this amendment, and to state that the grossest misrepresentation had been raised as to the conduct of the persons who at present held offices under the corporations.
 Mr. Scarlett  said, that this Amendment would have the effect of abolishing dignities and offices which had been secured by the Charters of the boroughs. This he did not consider proper. He thought that Aldermen ought to be for life. He thought also that the House of Lords had not gone so far as they ought to have gone. The Bill was founded upon improper principles from the beginning, and his opinion was, that the House of Lords would have been justified in rejecting it altogether.
 Mr. Scarlett  thought it important that they should retain some of those who knew the manner of transacting the business of
 1184
 Lord John Russell  proposed the restoration of that part of Clause 35, relating to justices of the peace, to the state in which it was before the amendment of the House of Lords.
 Lord John Russell  proposed an alteration in the Clause which gave power to the revising barrister to decide upon the division of corporate towns into wards. He proposed that as these gentlemen might be in some cases inexperienced, that the decision should be sent up for the approval of the King in Council, and if his Majesty did not approve, that then the matter should be sent back for revision.
 Lord John Russell  then said that the next Clause (Clause H) enacted "that the mayor and aldermen should, during their respective offices, continue to be members of the council of the borough, notwithstanding anything hereinafter contained as to councillors going out of office at the end of three years." He disagreed with this clause altogether, and he therefore moved that it should be struck out.
 Lord John Russell  said, that as the de-
 1171 seriatim
 Lord John Russell  referred to Clause E, page 18 of the Bill, which enacts, "That the Mayor, Aldermen, and Councillors to be chosen in each borough, together shall constitute the Council of the borough," and moved that the words "which Aldermen shall hold their offices for life," be struck out. The principle involved in this Amendment was, whether Aldermen should continue for life or for a limited period, and as no hon. Member on either side of the House had said one single word in favour of the continuance of Alderman for life, he expected that he should meet with a general concurrence in the course which he proposed.
 Lord John Russell  spoke to the following effect: I rise, not without considerable anxiety to propose to the House the consideration of the Amendments made by the House of Lords to a Bill which passed this House for the regulation of Municipal Corporations in England and Wales. I feel that this question does not come before the House as one comprising only the benefit or the mischief of certain alterations introduced by the other House of Parliament. The many petitions presented to this House, some of which I have had the honour to lay upon the Table, numerously signed, show that a great degree of excitement prevails upon the subject, and that there is a dread, a more than an ordinary dread, lest agreeing or assenting in any manner to the changes made by the House of Lords, we should in any way compromise or forfeit our character as representing the people whose interests we are sent here to support. I must say, that this feeling has grown to a great degree of excitement in many places, and if in some respects it has been carried beyond what I think the exact importance and value of the Amendments we have to consider, I believe it has been caused in a great degree by the manner of proposing, no less than by the matter of these Amendments. I feel persuaded that if the Bill which passed this House, had been at once taken into consideration by the House of Lords, and if they had made simply such alterations in it as appeared to them to be necessary, to correct any defects or to add any improvements to its framework, the temper with which those Amendments would have been received would have been very different from the temper which now exists. I am sorry to say, however, that though the Bill, now returned to us, was not immediately opposed in the House of Lords in principle, there were sent through the country opinions so disparaging to it as had been approved of by this House, so injurious to the people whom it was to enfranchise, that great irritation was felt, and that irritation, I must say, was increased ten-fold when a Gentleman was called to the Bar of the House of Lords and
 1133 1134 1135 1136 1137 1138 1139 1140 l. l. Robert Peel: 1141 l. l. s. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1142 l. 1143 * Hansard, vol, xxviii. p. 1186. 1144 1145
 Major Beauclerk  was certain that the division into wards would make the boroughs close corporations. He considered the amendment so objectionable that he felt it his duty to take the sense of the House on this question. He should move that Clause "I" be omitted, his object being to substitute the original clause for it.
 Mr. C. Buller  objected to any proposition tending to throw additional labour upon the revising barristers, who already had their hands full. He was convinced that those gentlemen who had been appointed for the present year would not be able to get through their duties within the six weeks, to which they were limited. Let hon. Members only imagine what, for instance, would be the work of revision for the county of Middlesex, and then judge whether revising barristers could possibly, in addition, undertake the labour now proposed to be cast upon them? For his part, he would rather throw the duty upon the bishop of the diocese or the excise officer.
 Mr. Charlton  said, that if the principle of popular election were once agreed to, there was no saying where they would stop. The principle of that Amendment might next be extended to the army and navy, and for ought he knew, it might then be proposed that the election of the King himself should be submitted to the same ordeal.
 Mr. Grote  could not allow this amendment to pass, without protesting against the principle of election for a certain number of years. Whether one-fourth or one-half went out the principle was the same, and in his opinion was highly objectionable.
 Mr. Grote  said, he saw nothing to prevent such a division into wards, under this Clause, as would create so many rotten boroughs. He repeated his protest against the Clause.
 Mr. Grote  begged to be allowed to say a few words. It gave him great pain to say so, but he could not help declaring, that he thought the noble Lord had conceded more than either the occasion required, or the feeling of the public would justify Nor, he must confess, had the noble Lord, in his opinion, done justice to the subject under the consideration of the House. Whatever he might think of the proceedings of the House of Lords in other respects, he was bound to acknowledge that they had resolutely adhered to their independent character. He thought, therefore, it would not be amiss if the House of Commons were to imitate the House of Lords in that particular, and adhere to their independent character. It would surely ill become the dignity of that House —the assembled representatives of the people of England—to yield important principles merely for the purpose of conciliating the other House of Parliament. In so doing they would not consult either their dignity or their honour. When the people of England were fully and justly represented in that House, there ought to be no other power in the State which should be able to stand against them. He thought also that the noble Lord, in Introducing
 1160 l. l. l. 1161
 Mr. Robinson  had derived sincere satisfaction from the calm and temperate tone in which the debate had been conducted by all who had taken part in it, with the single exception of the hon. Member who had last spoken. That hon. Member must pardon him for saying that it was he, and such as he, using language such as he used, who threw impediments in the way of wholesome and necessary reforms, greater even than those to whom he was politically opposed. It was not his intention to detain the House by making more than a very
 1169 1170
 Mr. Warburton  rose to express his decided opposition to the Amendment introduced by the other House, requiring a pecuniary qualification for the Members of the Town-council. Such a qualification would be utterly unjust. There were many boroughs in which large agricultural districts were included within the limits of the borough. In each of these towns, the farmers will be the highest rate-payers, and consequently, though wholly unacquainted with municipal affairs, would become the only persons qualified to act as Town-councillors. He trusted the noble Lord would take this point into his earnest consideration.
 Mr. Warburton  said this clause was founded on the principle adopted by the Kings of Rome in dividing the city of Rome into wards.  "Ne quisquam in civitate privatus suffragio esse videretur sed ut apud primores potestas remaneret"
 Mr. Roebuck  spoke as follows:—Mr. Speaker. To an observer, who looked not beneath the surface of things, the present condition of the people of this country would appear not very flattering to human vanity. He would see a great and an intelligent people, after a long and painful experience, after patient and very careful inquiry, and after mature and anxious consideration, determine, by means of their representatives, to fashion a great measure of Reform for some of their most important internal institutions. He would see the Representatives of this great and intelligent people, in obedience to the commands of their constituents, pass a long and painful Session in deliberation upon this great measure of Reform. He would see them, after having exercised all their care and judgment upon the measure; after having weighed, with intense solicitude, every particular portion of this Reform, and framed the whole so as, in their best judgment, to provide for the well-being of the nation they represented; he would see them, I say, compelled to submit their measure to the consideration of another, and wholly irresponsible, assembly; and he would see this irresponsible body—a body with interests wholly opposed to those of the nation—treat with unmeasured contempt and scorn the wishes of the people, and the measure framed by their responsible Representatives. And he would, lastly, behold this great and this intelligent nation, after being thus checked, thwarted, insulted, trampled on, scorned, and absolutely derided, bear with patience all this ignominy and degradation. To him, Sir, who should look no further than this, the spectacle I have described would appear little grateful to human pride. But if he would carry his observation further, he would see real cause for gratulation,—he would see why the people he was so contemplating were deemed
 1163 1164 cheers 1165 1166 1167 1168 bec et ongle,
 Mr. Hume  complimented the right hon. Baronet on the concessions which he had made in his speech, but said, that there was one principle on which he should join issue with him, and that was with respect to the right of Dissenters to nominate Ministers of the Established Church to the benefices under the control of the Corporations. He could never consent to the Bill while it contained this provision, for it was but renewing the Test and Corporation Acts after they had been long abolished. Was it not monstrous that Dissenters should be excluded from the power of nomination to such benefices, when it was notorious that a Dissenter might purchase an advow-
 1157 1158 1159
 Mr. Hume  thought the House by this measure was giving relief to a body of men who did not deserve it, because they, (the Irish clergy) and their friends in another place, were the parties who had stopped reform in respect to the church establishment of Ireland. They had not come forward to solicit the other House to pass the Bill which would have relieved them, and at the same time done justice; and he thought to entertain the present measure would be to show too strong a disposition to comply with their wishes, especially after the manner in which the measure to which he referred had been treated elsewhere.
 Mr. Hume  considered the clause as it originally stood far preferable to the Clause as now amended. He would ask even the Right hon. Baronet opposite whether he did not prefer the adjudication being left to the Commissioners, to the new arrangement of referring it to the revising barristers and the Privy Council, and he was willing to be bound by the right hon. Gentleman's decision.
 Mr. Phillip Howard  trusted they would be able to arrive at rational reform without any radical changes in the Constitution. He regretted the Lords did not concur in the clause relative to the appointment of magistrates, as it would place justice on its best basis—that of public opinion. The dividing into wards, as proposed by ministers, was much preferable to the amendment of the Lords, because it would contribute a great deal to repress the spirit of jobbing. He was satisfied that the course which the Government had taken was one that, under all the circumstances, would entitle them to the lasting gratitude of the country.
 Mr. Phillip Howard  could bear testimony to the deep and bitter feeling which pervaded that and the neighbouring counties, in consequence of the manner in which the Bill had been mutilated in the House of Lords. He (Mr. Howard) was not one of those who thought that the popular cause could be benefited by rejecting all concession or compromise, but he thought the House should resolutely stand by the leading provisions of the Bill. He trusted they should hear no more of the reign of Aldermen after to-night. All the counties on the borders were deeply interested in the restitution of those rights of
 1132
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  entered his protest against what he considered a compromise with the Lords. If his Majesty's Government and this House made themselves the ramparts between the House of Lords and the public feeling, the consequence would be, that both the Government and the House would be contaminated with the odium that now attached to the House of Lords. If the Government proceeded in this course, it was his conviction that their doom was fixed. This Bill was the second edition of the Irish Coercion Bill, which, with other aristocratic measures, had produced the ruin of Earl Grey's Government. Their present course would again break up the Administration; and how was another Administration on the same principles to be formed? He believed that the House of Lords would reject their partial concessions. They would then throw out the Government, and next they would send the Members of that House before their constituents. This he did not fear but he believed that many would then rue the course they were now pursuing. His Majesty's Government knew nothing of the feelings of the people. They saw, during the late elections, that the people were equally divided; and they therefore thought that the people were apathetic in the cause of British liberty. But they were not apathetic; they were only indifferent to the Whigs. He was quite sure that if Ministers would yet pull up, and insist upon the Bill as it was sent up to the other House, they would get the
 1182
 Mr. Ewart  said, that he considered the question of qualification with reference o its justice or injustice; and that he was so entirely of opinion that it was unjust, that he could not conscientiously vote for it. In his opinion no qualification whatever was necessary. All experience had shown, that qualifications such as that which was now proposed, were not only unjust, but nugatory. If, therefore, he were called upon to vote on the Question, he should certainly vote against qualification. As to the rights and privileges of the people with respect to common lands, the sound Clause on that subject of the right hon. Member for Tam-worth had been omitted in the Bill by the right hon. Baronet's friends in the other House of Parliament. The mode of appointing justices also had been altered, so as to return to that old system under which so much jobbing had taken place. It might be true that this question ought to be decided by conciliatory proceedings; but it was also true that it ought to be decided in such a manner as should render the measure not only a good but a permanent benefit. The House ought to manifest a steady resolution on that point. Although it was certainly desirable that the resistance to the Amendments proposed by the other House of Parliament should be conducted with a due attention to calm and pacific feelings, yet that House ought to evince a steady resolution not to accede to what they considered unjust; and, for his own part, he could not relinquish one atom of his objection to those Amendments. He only wished that the manners and the language of the right hon. Member for Tamworth had been adopted by the Members of the other House of Parliament, who showed, by their conduct, that even in that respect they had much to learn from that House. The duty which he had to dis-
 1162
 Sir R. Peel  began by observing, that the noble Lord in the speech which he had just delivered was pleased so far to compliment him as to express some satisfaction
 1146 1147 [Interruption. 1148 1149 1150 1151 John Russell: ad vitam aut culpam. 1152 ex officio, ex officio, 1153 l. l. 1154 1155 1156
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the proposition
 1183
 Sir Robert Peel  believed this was the first time the hon. Member had ever honoured him by placing so much dependence on his judgment, and he was sorry that he could not encourage him by concurring with his views. Under all the circumstances he thought it better to accept the Amendment
 1185
 Sir Samuel Whalley  called on the House not so far to thwart the wishes of the people, as to allow the Bill to pass in its altered state. The Bill had been sent up to the other House by hon. Members in the full possession of their corporeal faculties, and when he recollected the aged persons by whom it had been brought back from the Lords it only reminded him how the Bill had been mutilated. He would rather put off the Bill for another year than consent to its passing in the state proposed by Ministers. When he reflected upon the treatment which the Bill had received in the other House, he thought that the House might inscribe over its doors a notice which was vernacular, and very often to be seen in the streets—the notice of "Mangling done here." He hoped, at least, that the noble Lord would not allow the Bill to pass if the other House did not agree to his propositions. The noble Lord had certainly deprived the Qualification Clause of many of its objectionable points. The Town-clerks had been such participators in all the wrongs that had been inflicted upon the people that their continuance in office would destroy all the utility of the Bill. As it now stood, where any rate-payer was disqualified for one year, three years must elapse before he could be replaced on the borough-roll. He trusted, that Ministers would restore this Clause to its original state. He thought that the House was in a position to make advances towards an adjustment without compromising the good Government of municipal towns, and likewise without compromising the honour, independence, and dignity of the House of Commons.
 Mr. Wallace  would like to know why there was to be a different measure meted out to England, from that which had been given to Scotland? They had no qualification there, they wanted none, and the whole system worked well without it.
 Mr. O'Connell  would not detain them for many minutes. It was always wise to divide upon a difference of principle, as every man thought it of importance to have his own opinions known, and to know how many would vote with him. But upon this question it would mark no such distinction; he was himself as much opposed to a qualification as any man could be, and yet he would vote for the Clause, and many others had said they would do the same. He did it on the principle of a compromise, and in order to throw the blame upon others if the Bill were lost. He thought the qualification, as it came from the House of Lords, was totally undeserving the consideration of the House, and he was happy to see that it was thrown over by everybody. He did not see how human ingenuity could have invented a greater inquisitorial oppression than the qualification proposed by the House of Lords. So absurd and unjust a qualification he had never heard of. He was exceedingly glad that the qualification had been so far modified.
 Mr. Goulburn  did not think the words were sufficiently comprehensive — there were many Dissenting ministers who were not regular ministers.
 Mr. Goulburn  suggested the Amendment should be, "whether a Dissenting minister or not, appointed to any congregation." He thought all should be equally excluded, and that the Amendment should be extended to shut out all preachers.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would take all the objections that had been urged, and would add another from himself. If the Lords' Amendment were agreed to, it would exclude all the Society of Friends, for they were all preachers, and the effect of that clause would be to exclude every Quaker.
 Mr. Ervart  thought the smaller qualification might safely be taken in the largest towns; 1,000 l.
 Mr. William Williams  would give his most decided objection to the Qualification Clause. The noble Lord had last night spoken so powerfully against it that he had hoped that he had altogether abandoned it. There was one point to which he wished to call the attention of the House. The other House had shown a great at achment to ancient customs in discussing the principles of that Bill. But it so happened that in none of the ancient charters was any qualification necessary. The City of London possessed one of the most important and ancient charters, and in none of the corporate officers was qualification required. The Common Council had the power of establishing a qualification, and although they had been 500 years a governing body in no one instance had they attempted to establish such a test. It could not be proved that in any of the Corporations qualifications were required for any office. It was remarkable that in the City of London persons might be disqualified from serving some offices; as, for instance, a person elected to serve as an Alderman would be disqualified if he swore that he was not worth 15,000 l. l. 1203 l. l. l.
 The Attorney General  said, that this Clause imposed a hardship upon those who were chosen to be councillors; inasmuch as, in the event of their not having a qualification, it threw upon them the burden of proving that they did not possess a qualification. He proposed that the words should be inserted "at the time of making such declaration" which would throw the  onus probandi
 Mr. Sergeant Goulburn  agreed with his hon. and learned Friend the Recorder of London, in thinking that the qualification should constantly subsist.
 Mr. Lam  would just suggest to the noble Lord, that the Amendment which had just been carried might prove fatal to the Bill in another place. He understood
 1212
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that having once affirmed the principle of a qualification, they were bound to give it effect fairly and honestly. The case, he admitted, was one of considerable difficulty.
 Mr. Warde  considered that both parties might be conciliated if certain periods were fixed for inquiry into the qualification of these councillors by Act of Parliament.
 The Chancellor of Ike Exchequer  said that the amendment of his noble Friend would remedy the inconveniences of the arrangement adopted by the Lords, and ought to be adopted both on the principles laid down by the right hon. Baronet opposite and on those laid down by the House of Lords itself. No alteration could be suggested more fatal to the peace of towns, or more prejudicial to the interest of the community in general, than that which had been passed by that House; it would interfere indeed more than anything else with the good working of the Bill.
 Mr. Goulburn  thought Municipal Corporations were not fit depositories for Church patronage. If the amendment which had been introduced by the House of Lords were omitted, a power of exercising Church patronage would be placed in the hands of Dissenters, who had never enjoyed it before. Against the principle of such an arrangement he for one could not refrain from raising his voice.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said that he was willing to make any concessions with respect to the clauses of the Bill, which were consistent with reason or common sense; but this amendment contained a principle which was abhorrent to his sense of justice and toleration. It was one which he could never agree to. But even supposing for the sake of argument that such a principle might be adopted, it must be utterly impracticable and worthless, and could not be carried into execution without the imposition of a religious test, the revival of which would be received with horror and disgust, and would never be submitted to. He quite agreed in the declaration made by the right hon. Gentleman who spoke last, who stated that corporate bodies were not the best depositories of such a right as that exercised with respect to Church preferment. Though he was disposed to yield on other points of the Bill, yet the principle involved in the amendment of the Lords on this part of the Bill was one which he felt bound to resist. He therefore took that opportunity of giving notice, that if this Clause were omitted, he
 1217
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the result of passing the Clause in the shape in which it had been sent up by that House to the House of Lords would be, either that there would be no Magistrates at all in a Borough, or that all the Magistrates would be of one political feeling.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was not fair to state that the Clause, as it originally stood, introduced the principle of popular election into the nomination, of Magistrates. Strong supporter as he was of popular rights, he would not consent to any proposition that would make the situation of Magistrate a matter of popular canvass. But it was not a subject of popular election. If the argument of the hon. and learned Gentleman were good, as applicable to the proposed Corporations, it was equally applicable to the existing Corporations. He looked at the matter practically. In many of the borough towns at the present time, the Magistrates were not only elected by the Corporations, but elected annually. If, therefore, the objection was to the appointment of Magistrates of one predominant opinion, that objection applied to the existing law, and not to the present Bill. He saw at present, in many of the borough towns, Magistrates not only elected, but annually elected. If, therefore, there were an objection to gentlemen so elected administering the law, he said it was an objection which applied to the present system, and not to the Bill under their consideration. The Bill did not assume a new
 1223
 Mr. Curteis  agreed with the hon. Member for Hastings, and considered that these clauses had been inserted by the Duke of Wellington, without exactly knowing their real import. The clauses were in the nature of a private Bill, and ought to form the subject of a separate measure.
 Mr. Price  was of opinion that these Clauses had been fully entered into by the Government, and were perfectly understood by them. He considered their insertion to be essentially necessary.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought that in the whole course of his Parliamentary career he had never known a greater blunder committed than had been committed by the right hon. and gallant Officer who had just sat down, in calling the measure before the House a Bill of Indemnity. How was it possible correctly to designate as a Bill of Indemnity a measure which was only prospective in its nature, which contained restraining clauses as to giving effect to a certain Act of Parliament, or certain provisions of an Act, which had not yet come into operation, but which had no reference whatever to past occurrences. He called upon all Gentlemen who wished for a settlement of the Irish tithe question, not only upon that ground but for the sake of justice, that the innocent might not be crushed in consequence of the acts of others, who with the view of befriending them, had really been their bitterest foes. The great bulk of the clergy
 1230 Henry Hardinge: 1231
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  assured the right hon. and gallant Officer, that nothing had been further from his thoughts than to apply the epithet "pettifogging" to him. He should as soon have thought of applying the title of "gallant Officer" to the Archbishop of Canterbury, as "pettifogger" to the right hon. and gallant Officer. He assured him that he meant no unkindness to him, and he believed he had expressed none. The whole of his past life, both public and private, might be offered as a guarantee of his entertaining no unkind feeling towards the right hon. and gallant Officer. When, however the right hon. and gallant Officer offered a direct interruption to him, upon his declaring that if he had been a minister of the Irish Church, he should have been in favour of the measure lately sent up to the other House, he felt bound to enter upon the defence of his own opinion. He had begun with a joke— perhaps a bad one—but he did not wish to end in a different humour from that in which he had begun the debate. With reference to the question of indemnity, he would say one word. He had been told he ought to have come earlier, for the Bill came into operation earlier. He begged leave to say, that while another measure was before the House, whilst the Legislature was actually in deliberation upon a proposed measure upon the subject, it would have been contrary to Parliamentary usages, as it was condemned by courts of law, to bring such a Bill under the notice of the House.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  disclaimed having said anything to offend the right hon. and gallant Officer.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : Then, Sir, I say that I did not mean to give offence to the right hon. and gallant Officer, and there ends the matter. If I had intended it I should be ready to avow and defend my conduct. But with reference to the advice offered to me by the right hon. and gallant Officer, I may be allowed to tell him that no one in this House stands more in need of such advice than he does. I hope, therefore, he will apply it to himself and follow it.
 The Chairman  (Mr. Bernal) suggested that the hon. Member for Meath could not have weighed the effect of what he had just said, nor have considered the sense of the last word which he had used. He was sure that, as soon as the hon. Member's attention was called to the words which he had uttered in the warmth of debate, he would see the propriety of retracting them.
 The Chairman : The hon. Member
 1236
 Captain Curteis  said that "absurdity" was a strong word, and not precisely Parliamentary. There had been strong provocation given, and he thought some explanation of what was meant by that word should be addressed to the Committee.
 The Chairman  conceived the hon. Member for Meath to have stated that he meant nothing personally offensive to the right hon. and gallant Officer, and that he withdrew the disorderly expression which he had used. That being the case, it was his duty to call on the right hon. and gallant Officer to say that he was satisfied.
 The Chairman : I have already stated to the Committee that the hon. Member for Meath has attempted to do away with the offence which he gave, and that he has made the attempt in such a manner as ought to ensure its success. That is my feeling, and I think it my duty to state it honestly and manfully. I had hoped that what has been said by the hon. Member for Meath would have been satisfactory to the right hon. and gallant Officer. It seems, however, that it is not satisfactory. I, therefore, hope that the Committee will not suffer this matter to proceed further; for
 1239
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  called the attention of the Committee to this fact—that all that had been asked by the friends of the right hon. and gallant Officer had been frankly conceded by his hon. Friend, the Member for Meath. That which the right hon. and gallant Officer thought ought to be done hereafter by the hon. Member for Meath, had been done by that hon. Member already. There had been an appeal made on two distinct occasions to the House respecting the interpretation to be put on the words used by the hon. Member for Meath. In both cases the Committee had responded to that appeal. The Committee had declared that the use of the words which the hon. Member for Meath had employed, was an impropriety, and had called upon him in consequence to retract them. There had also been an appeal made to his hon. and gallant Friend, the Member for Sligo, and that appeal had likewise been answered. Upon the answer which was given to that appeal, his hon. Friend the Member for Meath had in the most unqualified and unconditional manner "[ No, no,"—"Yes, yes." 1240
 The Chairman  hoped that in what he had before stated to the Committee, he had expressed himself without evasion or circumlocution to this effect —namely, that the explanation of the hon. Member for Meath was, and ought to be, perfectly satisfactory. He thought that it ought to satisfy the right hon. and gallant Officer.
 The Chairman : I have stated, what my feelings are upon this subject; it is, therefore, unnecessary for me to repeat them at length, but I cannot refrain from stating once more, that what has fallen from the hon. Member for Meath, ought, in my opinion, to be considered perfectly satisfactory.
 Mr. Law  could not consent to any Amendment, the effect of which might be, that although a person had a qualification when he took office, he might not have it
 1209
 Mr. Scarlett  was always of opinion, and it was now avowed by the hon. Member for Southwark, that the object of this measure was to influence elections rather than to improve corporations. Many of the supporters of this measure appeared to have an objection to a mixed form of Government. For himself, it was the form he was most attached to, and this attachment he shared with the great majority of the people.
 Mr. Scarlett  maintained that this Amendment by the noble Lord proved, if any fresh proof were wanted, that the measure was not intended to reform abuses in Corporations but for political purposes, so that a Radical Town Council might have the power of appointing a Radical Town Clerk. He asserted that the present Town Clerks were honest and efficient servants, who ought not to be removed.
 Lord John Russell  proposed a change in Clause 59, providing that officers of the Corporation should not hold their appointments during life, but during good behaviour.
 Lord John Russell  said, he considered the
 1213
 Lord John Russell  said, that in Clause 52 the Lords had decided that Town Clerks should hold their office "during good behaviour:" he did not mean to restore the Bill in this respect to its original state, but to agree to part of the Amendment with the substitution of the words "during pleasure" for "during good behaviour." [Mr.  Roebuck:
 Lord John Russell  certainly wished the qualification to be  bona fide;
 Lord John Russell  said, that the right hon. Gentleman was not justified in saying that it was meant to get rid of the qualification by a side-wind. Since he came into the House, the Amendment had been suggested by his hon. Friend, the Member for Portsmouth, and having been acceded to by his hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney-General, he did not hesitate to adopt it. From these circumstances it would be evident that he had not had much time to consider the effect of the words; but he protested against its being said that any thing like getting rid of the qualification by a side-wind, or their acting in bad faith, was intended.
 Lord John Russell  said, as they had fully explained themselves as to the Qualification Clause, and must for the present postpone the verbal alteration necessary in it, he should, propose to go back to the 25th Clause; he would move, as an amendment, that the words "preacher," or "teacher," in any Dissenting congregation, should be struck out, and the following words should be added "or being the regular minister of any Dissenting congregation."
 Lord John Russell  could only say, that
 1206
 Lord John Russell  was of opinion that there was only one of two courses to be adopted. The first was to adhere to the excellent original principle laid down in the Bill and have no qualification at all. The second was to take such a qualification as might be acceptable elsewhere. He (Lord John Russell) was not prepared to remove all qualification, and therefore he must adhere to the original Amendment.
 Lord John Russell  would then return to the Qualification Clause, he proposed to insert these words, "unless he shall be seised or possessed of real or personal property to the following amount, that is to
 1202 l. l.
 Lord John Russell  had received a remonstrance from the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland on the subject of this Commission, representing that there were some of the members of it not friendly to the Church. He must also state that he had received another remonstrance from the central body of the Dissenters of Scotland representing the Commission as too
 1192
 Lord John Russell  would take that opportunity to state the course which he intended to propose respecting the qualification, the Clause regarding which had been postponed. As he had stated last night, he was disposed to take 1,000 l. l.
 Lord John Russell  was anxious to say a few words in answer to what had fallen from the two hon. Gentlemen who had last addressed the House, He begged to state most distinctly, that in agreeing to Amendments now in the Bill, and in proposing others of the same import, he did so solely with the view of passing what was an efficient measure, notwithstanding all its glaring defects. He protested against its being considered that he thereby gave in his adhesion to the alterations made in the Bill elsewhere. He should
 1196
 Lord John Russell  was glad to find the right hon. Gentleman agree with him in thinking that the preservation of the list of one-sixth of the highest rate-payers was not necessary. He thought the alternative test now proposed by the right hon. Baronet an improvement in the Clause, and he would move its introduction when they came to the consideration of the Clause.
 Lord John Russell  proposed to omit the "List," and also to do away with the necessity of qualifying, except in the cases of persons who were actually elected to office, when they would have to make a declaration. He was prepared also to accede to the right hon. Baronet's alternative qualification of paying rates to a certain amount in cases where parties were not worth 1,000 l. l.
 Lord John Russell  then moved that Clause T, inserted by the Lords for preserving the jurisdiction of the Cinque Ports, be adopted.
 Lord John Russell  observed that this was entirely a new Clause, and one to which, as he observed last night, he could not give his assent. He was not unwilling to agree to a proposition which might be framed for giving every possible security to the Church in the exercise of the patronage in question, but he was not disposed to agree to any proposition by which the Council would be divided into two parts, one being composed of members of the Church of England, and the other of Dissenters. At the time of the repeal of the Test and Corporation Acts, no security was required from Dissenters on being admitted into Corporations, except that contained in a declaration to be taken alike by Churchmen and Dissenters. He would repeat that he was ready to accede to any proposition by which security to the Church could be further obtained in this respect; and that he was not prepared to con-
 1216
 Lord John Russell  said, that as the proposition of his right hon. Friend appeared to give general satisfaction, he did not think it necessary to enter into any discussion on the principles of this Clause, as amended by the House of Lords. It appeared to him, from the manner in which that proposition was received by both sides of the House, that it would relieve the question from all the difficulties by which
 1218
 Lord John Russell  said, that if there was a general wish on the part of honourable Members to postpone the further proceeding on the Clause in the Bill, until it could be considered in conjunction with his right hon. Friend's proposition, he was ready to postpone it until to-morrow.
 Lord John Russell  moved the re-insertion of the words omitted by the House of Lords.
 Major Beauclerk,  as the motion was about to be withdrawn, felt bound to protest against the Clause as it at present stood. It was objectionable to the great body of the people, to the lower class of tradesmen, inasmuch as it obliged individuals to prove to the amount of their property, which, in a commercial country like this, he considered most invidious and harmful. He thought that his Majesty's Ministers had yielded too much in favour of the other House; and though he hoped that they would give satisfaction to that House, he could not help feeling that the day would soon come, when they would find that House would never go on in conformity with the other House. He protested in the strongest terms against this clause, which he was sure would spread general dissatisfaction throughout the country.
 Major Beauclerk  did not agree with the hon. Member. He was afraid that the doctrine would apply very unfortunately to some of the Members of that House.
 Major Fancourt : It was satisfactory, I suppose, to the Committee, because they considered it to be absolute, unqualified, and unconditional. Why, then, should the hon. Member refuse to repeat it in his own person?
 Major Fancourt : If the hon. Member for Meath will only say with his own lips, that his retractation was an absolute, unconditional retractation of the offensive expression, I shall advise my right hon. and gallant Friend not to hold out longer against the declared sense and wishes of the Committee.
 Colonel Perceval : I will say this to my hon. Friend the Member for Meath, as he has appealed to me thus personally—I do not think that he had any ground for taking the word "absurdity" as used in a sense personally offensive to him.
 Colonel Perceval  said, he would make one observation, which he trusted would do away with the ground of offence. He would remind the House that the hon. Member for Meath had been the first to make use of the phrase "absurd." The hon. Member had said that his right hon. Friend near him might be a good officer in the field; but he had used the word "absurdity" with respect to his right hon. Friend's services in the senate.
 Colonel Leith Hay  observed, that in the course of the debate, language had been used which had induced his hon. Friend, the Member for Meath, to employ words for which he had since expressed his regret. Under the circumstances, then, of his hon. Friend having stated that he had no intention to utter anything personally disrespectful to his right hon. and gallant Friend, and of his hon. Friend having also publicly retracted the offensive expression to which he had given utterance, he could not see any just reason why his right hon. and gallant Friend should not rise and say that he was perfectly satisfied.
 Colonel Leith Hay  alluded to the reference made by the right hon. Baronet to the case of the Town-Clerks of Scotch burghs, and denied that the system had worked well there. Hereafter it would be found necessary to put the Town-Clerks in Scotland on a different footing, in order that they might act more in accordance with the main body of the Corporation.
 Mr. Hawes  objected to the hon. Mem-
 1207
 Mr. Charles Barclay  thought that such an arrangement as that proposed, would be acceptable to all parties.
 Mr. Charles Buller  said, that whilst this appointment of justices rested with the Tory Corporations, who appointed without the intervention of the Crown, no one even on the Opposition side of the House ever considered the Crown was illtreated; but the moment it was proposed to give the right of choosing their magistracy to the people, then a new-fangled loyalty sprung up in the breast of Tory politicians, and they felt it consistent and convenient to inveigh against the charge as an infringement of the Royal prerogative, though the Crown was still required to approve of the nomination.
 Mr. Charles Buller , in explanation, begged to say that he had attributed no motive to any one; all that he had contended against was, the deep-seated prejudice of some of the Gentlemen opposite.
 Mr. Hindley  observed, that a man might be rich in pocket, and poor in powers of mind. He hoped the time would come when every man would be rated, not according to his wealth, but according to his merit.
 Colonel Sibthorp,  for one, most cordially agreed to the Lords' Amendments. He wished the House would divide, for he wanted the opinions of Members to be
 1200
 Colonel Sibthorp  objected to the proposal, and instanced the city he represented, the Town-Clerk of which was opposed to him in politics; nevertheless he did not wish him to be removed, because he believed him to be a competent and useful officer. The words "during pleasure," rendered the Town Clerk subject to removal merely at he will of the Town-Council, and they would hang as a rod over his head.
 Mr. Harvey  remarked upon a case unprovided for in the Bill—that of a corporator who was qualified when he took his office, but became disqualified within the year by a reverse of fortune; as the Clause now stood such a man was liable to penalties, and had no means of escape, as he could not disrobe himself of his office.
 Mr. Harvey  begged the House to consider that though it was sufficiently easy to ascertain whether a person had a qualification when the qualification depended upon real property, yet it was very difficult in the case of shopkeepers and tradesmen, whose qualification alone would be questioned under this Clause. Their property depended on the debts owing to them, and their solvency depended upon the solvency of others. A man might be worth many thousands, in his own opinion, and yet, when his debts were called in and enforced, he might not be worth five shillings in the pound.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that if that House yielded to the other, it was not their fault, but the fault of the people who had sent in the strong array of numbers and intellect which formed the Opposition in the Reformed Parliament. The people had no right to complain that concessions were made by so small a majority as that which supported the present Ministry. The majority recognised, but did not approve, the suggestions of the right hon. Member for Tamworth. Did not the other House boast that the minority here was the largest ever known in opposition to Ministers? The public, whilst expecting much, could not suppose that, circumstanced as the majority in that House were, they could do everything; nor, indeed, would it be right that they should. That House reflected the public mind; it was the mirror of opinion. Let the constituent body then understand, that if the majority of that House did not effect more, it was not that they wanted the will, but that the public withheld the power. If they could not carry this, in his estimation the greatest Bill that ever passed that House, in its integrity, the fault lay with those who had returned so large a minority. But when the Bill should pass into a law, and that corporate monopolies were broken up, they would before three years have a majority in that House, which would free them from the dictation of any other, and enable the people to assert their claims in a manner that would be resistless. This Bill would enlarge the foundation of the constituent body, and open a channel for popular opinion so wide and free, that it would bear safely upon its current all measures of useful improvement.
 Mr. Harvey  trusted the House would not be led away by any suggestion, however plausible. The right hon. Baronet who had thrown out the one so eagerly taken up by the noble Lord, said it would get rid of the qualification roll of one-sixth of the rate-payers; but it was to be considered that rating in the country was not on the same basis as in Whitehall or Westminster. There 15 l. l. l.
 Mr. Harvey  considered this rate qualification as one of those incidental and gratuitous acts of kindness in which right hon. Gentlemen abounded. It was possible that an insolvent might be rated 15 l. l. 1208 l. l.
 Mr. Wodehouse : The discussion in the previous part of it was enlivened by comic expressions. The employment of the term "absurd" under such circumstances, would not be deemed a flagrant violation of the rules of the House. The word "impertinent," however, I have never heard used in this House without the Member being called on for an apology. I hope that my hon. Friend will adopt the usual course upon this occasion, bearing in mind that his apology is to the House itself, and not to an individual.
 Mr. Baines  observed, that the proposition of the right hon. Baronet would be attended with difficulties in consequence of the inequality of the valuations, which were sometimes to the full amount of the rent, sometimes to one-third, and sometimes as low as one-fifth. He would vote for the qualification, though, in his opinion, the Bill would be much better without it. He would entreat the hon. Member for London not to press this matter to a division, as it would, not effect the purpose
 1199
 Mr. Strutt  contended, that there was no analogy between the appointment of a Recorder and the appointment of local Magistrates. The Recorder was necessarily chosen from the members of the legal profession, and the Crown had always about it persons possessing an intimate knowledge of the whole Bar, and consequently fully capable of making the best and most judicious recommendation of the party most fit to act as Recorder. The case was quite different with respect to the appointment of Borough Magistrates. The Crown had about it no person who possessed a sufficient local knowledge of every borough town to know who of its inhabitants were best qualified to act as Magistrates. Hence the proposition for vesting the power of recommendation in the Town-council. The question was, whether the Crown should have some responsible adviser to direct its choice, or whether it should derive its information from some secret and party channel. He contended that the original proposition as agreed to by the Commons, and as now proposed to be restored, instead of restricting, in fact extended the power and prerogative of the Crown, because it would give the Crown the power which it had
 1225
 Mr. Fitzstephen French,  who sat next to Mr. Henry Grattan, thought that his hon. Friend ought to withdraw the expression which he had used. [ Hear, hear.
 Mr. F. French : The hon. and gallant Officer seems to have forgotten that the retractation of my hon. Friend appeared perfectly satisfactory to the Committee, and I am therefore sure that my hon. and galland Friend cannot feel himself justified in calling upon my hon. Friend to repeat the terms of that retractation.
 Mr. Fitzstephen French  thought that the Committee, after what had fallen from his hon. Friend the Member for Meath, had a right to expect that the right hon. and gallant Officer should let them know that he deemed that explanation satisfactory. The Committee ought distinctly to understand that nothing further would take place in consequence of what had passed to-night between the two hon. Members.
 Mr. Grote  had no doubt of the disposition of the House to simplify the test as to qualification, but he objected altogether to the principle of a qualification. It was just as easy to conceive cases of men deservedly possessing the confidence of their townsmen for their integrity and spotless conduct, but who were not rated to the amount specified by the right hon. Baronet, as it was to conceive similar men not worth 1,000 l.
 Mr. Grote  had come down to the House with the full intention of dividing upon this question of qualification; but after the observations he had heard, he was disposed to alter his purpose. Yet he was anxious to give the reasons which had induced him to form that purpose—viz., to show his repugnance to the principle of qualification, and to mark his sense that the extent of the concession made to the Lords was greater than the occasion required. This principle had been adopted by men whom he respected; but he must say, that the tone of this debate was calculated to have no other effect than to give the Lords a power of legislating over this House, and to make the country believe that this House would not stand by any great principle which it had endeavoured to establish. He could not see what the country had gained by the Reform Bill, which had in a great measure put an end to the system of filling the House by the nominees of the Lords, if the other House was to exercise its power in another way, by enabling minorities of the Commons to triumph over decided majorities of the Representatives of the people. However, the observations which he had heard, accompanied as they were by protests against the principle of qualification, proved to him that if he were to take a division on this question, it would practically go forth to the country, that this principle was less unpopular in that
 1204
 Mr. Robinson  objected to so high a qualification. He proposed that there should be a rating of 20 l. l.
 Mr. Sinclair  rose, in pursuance of his notice, for the purpose of addressing two questions to the noble Lord, in reference to the Commission which had been issued by his Majesty's Ministers to conduct certain inquiries with respect to the Church of Scotland. He need scarcely tell the noble Lord, that much dissatisfaction and surprise had been, excited in the minds both of the clergy and laity connected with the Ecclesiastical Establishment in that country; both by the terms of the Commission itself and the names of some of the individuals appointed to take part in the investigation. He acquitted the Government of all intention to affront or injure the Church of Scotland, but at the same time he was informed that the Commission was loudly complained of on two grounds. First, that it embraced certain objects, an inquiry into which before such tribunal, was derogatory to the character, and inconsistent with the independence, of the Church; and secondly, that some particulars were not comprehended,
 1191
 Mr. George F. Young  was of opinion that the qualification was too high, and he drew his inference from the fact that the number of registered 10 l.
 Mr. George F. Young  reminded the House that they had rejected the proposition of a Property-tax, on the ground of its being invidious and inquisitorial, and yet this would lead to inquiries more odious and more inquisitorial than the property-tax.
 Mr. George F. Young  agreed with the noble Lord who had just spoken. The amendment proposed was a middle course that exactly met the justice of the case.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that there was an allegation in the Report, that no evidence had been tendered in support of the other charges preferred in the petition against General Darling. The inference from that was, that besides the charge relating to General Darling's treatment of the two soldiers, all the other charges against him
 1243
 Mr. Henry Grattan : As my hon. and gallant Friend says, that he thinks that the words of which I complained were not meant by the right hon. and gallant Officer in a sense personally offensive to me, I certainly have no hesitation to say that I did not mean to apply the word which I used in a sense personally offensive to the right hon. and gallant Officer, and I therefore withdraw it.
 Mr. Henry Grattan : If the right hon. and gallant Officer will state that he did not mean either by his manner or by his words to convey any insult to me, or if my hon. and gallant Friend, the Member for Sligo, will state that, in his opinion, his right hon. and gallant Friend did not mean to express any insult to me, I will not object to retract the word that I used. I thought that the right hon. and gallant Officer made a deliberate attack upon me, and what I said was intended as a retort to the insult.
 Mr. Henry Grattan : The right hon. Gentleman may say that I am absurd—I may be absurd, and that may be better than affected. But for my part I would prefer being polite to being impertinent.
 Mr. Henry Grattan : If the right hon. and gallant officer says that he meant nothing offensive to me personally in his use of the term "absurdity," I can have no hesitation in saying that I meant nothing offensive to him personally in using the word "impertinent." If the hon. Gentlemen on the opposite benches mean by their cheers to say that the right hon. and gallant Officer was right in inflicting upon me a personal insult— [" No, no,"
 Mr. Henry Grattan  could not accede to the version which his hon. and gallant Friend, the Member for Sligo, had, no doubt with the firmest belief in its correctness, put upon his words. He had not accused the right hon. and gallant Officer of absurdity. "What I said," continued Mr. Grattan, "was this, that though the right hon. and gallant Gentleman might be a good officer in the field, it was absurd to say that he was, therefore, a good orator or a practised statesman in the senate. I will not refer further to what the right hon. and gallant officer said; for there was that in his manner which was much
 1237
 Mr. Henry Grattan : If the word "absurdity," had not been uttered with a meaning offensive to me, I should not have made use of the term "impertinent."
 Mr. Henry Grattan  could assure the right hon. and gallant Officer, that if he was dissatisfied with what had fallen from the lips of the Chancellor of the Exchequer upon the subject of the Irish Church Bill, which his party in the House of Lords had had the rashness, he would not say the malignity, he repeated the word, and claimed his right to use it—if the right hon. Gentleman was dissatisfied upon that score, he could promise him ample ground of discontent if the Session lasted much longer. Let him look at the state of the clergy in Ireland, and then say whether the act of destroying that Bill was not an act of malignity—if not in intention, in effect—and he would leave them to settle the difference. He was pleased to see two English Members get warm upon this subject, because he was glad to find that at length a question connected with Ireland could rouse to the warmth of anger the feelings of English Members. This occurrence ought to mark a new era for Ireland, auguring much good in store. As an Irish Member he hoped he should improve in the opposite direction. The right hon. and gallant Officer had told the House that the
 1234 1235 Order, order. "Order." Henry Hardinge. Henry Hardinge.
 Sir Henry Hardinge : I shall not condescend to defend myself from the charge of absurdity which the hon. Member has brought against me. If I wanted to show what absurdity was, I would take the speech of the hon. Member for Meath as a specimen.
 Sir Henry Hardinge : I am utterly incapable of charging any Member with making an attack upon me unless I believed he had made it. I did believe so in this instance; but I am bound to take the disclaimer of the right hon. Gentleman.
 Sir Henry Hardinge : You did!
 Sir Henry Hardinge : I am at all times most anxious to accede to the wishes of this House, and to the wishes of its Chairman. At the same time I must frankly and explicitly state, that I did not understand the hon. Member for Meath to withdraw the offensive expression which he used, without an inference which I cannot confirm, until I hear an absolute, unequivocal, and unconditional retractation of that expression. When that retractation is made by the hon. Member for Meath, I will state whether I am satisfied or not, but not till then. Till I hear that absolute and unconditional retractation I shall persist in saying nothing.
 Sir Henry Hardinge : If I am to understand that this retractation is absolute, unqualified, unlimited, and without any condition whatever—if I am to understand that it is stated by you, Sir, to be such a retractation, and that that statement is not denied by the hon. Member for Meath, I am willing to accept the retractation; but if it is not absolute, unqualified, and unconditional, then I adhere to my first opinion, and declare, that without an unconditional retractation, I am not, and will not, be satisfied.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, he had never heard a more illogical speech than that which had just been delivered by the hon. Member for Middlesex. The hon. Member had stated, that because the Irish Tithe Bill had been rejected by the other House of Parliament, the clergy of Ireland
 1229
 Sir Henry Hardinge  explained. He complained of the right hon. Gentleman taking occasion to attack him when he had given no cause for it. His observations had not applied to the right hon. Gentle-
 1233
 Sir Henry Hardinge  had never heard a more unwarrantable attack than that which the right hon. Gentleman had just made upon him. The right hon. Gentleman, in a most sneering tone, had thought fit to allude to him, and to impute pettifogging conduct to him. Now he begged to retort that expression upon the right hon. Gentleman.—[The  Chancellor of the Exchequer: 1232
 Sir Henry Hardinge : If I am to understand that this is the feeling of the Committee, I will not push this matter any further, as I understand the retractation to be unqualified, and without condition.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  hoped, that this Report would be printed and circulated with the votes, as General Darling's conduct had been exposed to the most severe imputations, and it was now declared by a Committee of the House to be entirely free from blame. It must be highly satisfactory to the friends of that gallant Officer to know that he had done nothing inconsistent with his character as a soldier and a man of honour, during his administration in New South Wales. It was only an act of justice towards General Darling, that the imputations cast upon him in that House should, if possible, be obliterated; and the best mode of obliterating those imputations, as it appeared to him, was to print this Report along with the votes. The right hon. and gallant Officer concluded by making a Motion to that effect.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  did not wish the Report to to be inserted in the votes; he only wished it to be printed separately and circulated with the votes.
 Sir Henry Hardinge : If I am to understand it to be your decision, Sir, that the retractation was unqualified, and without condition, I am willing to let this affair pass over.
 Sir Henry Hardinge : Then my object will be attained.
 Mr. Warburton  said, it was taking an advantage of a public Bill to introduce clauses which were only fitted for a private Bill.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that it ought to be left to the Chairman to decide whether the retractation were satisfactory; but, as the right hon. and gallant Officer would not submit to that rule, he must persist in moving, that the Chairman report progress, and inform the House of what had occurred.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that as this discussion had already taken up enough of their time, he should move that the Chairman do report progress, in order to report to the House the disagreeable collision which had occurred in the Committee.
 Mr. Warburton  thought that no man would consent to serve as a councillor, if it subjected his estate and pecuniary circumstances to public inquiry.
 Mr. Twiss  thought the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman a proper one; and he believed that its adoption would prevent any dissensions which might arise between Dissenters and Members of the Established Church, with regard to the exercise of the right of presentation.
 The Speaker : The ordinary course would secure that point.
 The Speaker  said, that the course proposed by the right hon. and gallant Officer was a deviation from the general practice of the House. He would give orders that this Report should be printed as speedily as possible; when printed it would be easy to circulate it in the usual manner. He saw no reason for departing from their ordinary course, and for putting the Report on the votes of the House.
 Dr. Bowring  observed that the Clause, as it stood amended by the Lords, cast the greatest opprobrium on the Dissenters. He hoped the Government would not consent to add to their difficulties by adopting, inconsiderately, the proposition of his bon. Friend near him (Mr. Poulter). As for the Church patronage being exercised by Dissenters he, for one, would assure the House that they would gladly wash their hands of it; yet at the same time it should not be forgotten that Dissenters must have an interest in an Establishment to the support of which they so largely contributed.
 Dr. Bowring  instanced the case of Blackburn, which, with a population of 37,000 inhabitants, had only 700 registered voters.
 Mr. Herries  thought as the retractation had been declared by the Chairman to be unqualified and unconditional, and as that declaration had been made in the presence of the hon. Member for Meath, and had not been contradicted by him, it ought to be considered satisfactory by his right hon. and gallant Friend.
 Mr. Leader  could not agree with the hon. and gallant Member who had just spoken, for he disapproved of every one of the alterations which the Lords had made in the Corporation Reform Bill. They must, he supposed, salute the gallant Member as leader of the Conservatives, as the right hon. Baronet had resigned that, important trust—or, rather in the gallant Colonel's own impressive words, they must salute him chief of the constitutional blood-hounds of Great Britain. With respect to the Qualification Clause, he could assure the hon. Member for Rochester that he disliked it fully as much as he could. He (Mr. Leader) detested the principle of a money qualification—and looked upon this clause as the most objectionable and the most pernicious of the Lords' alterations. But they were told that men who had the charge of public property should be men possessing property themselves. Why, suppose such a principle established, what sort of Chancellor should we have? Suppose that there existed a law, excluding from the office of Lord Chancellor of England any man who was not possessed of a clear landed estate of 20,000 l. 1201
 Dr. Nicholl  was of opinion, that as the Committee was satisfied with the explanation of the hon. Member for Meath, the offence against the individual Member was at an end.
 Mr. Poulter  was of opinion that these Church preferments enjoyed by the Corporations should be purchased by the Crown.
 Mr. Roebuck  thought he should be enabled to state a proposition more desirable and beneficial than that laid down by the noble Lord himself. In small towns it would be found impossible to get a sufficient number of Councilmen worth 1,000 l. l.
 Mr. Roebuck  would propose that a rating of 10 l.
 Mr. Roebuck  could not admit that the House ought to recognise any such right, and contended that no office of the kind was property, and ought not to be dealt with as property. Powers were conferred for the benefit of the community, and not for the advantage of the individual. Every Town-Clerk had been well paid while he had held his situation, and he saw no reason for granting him compensation merely because he had indulged unreasonable exactations.
 Mr. Wilks  was fully satisfied with the words proposed by the noble Lord. There were many men who, though preachers or teachers, were not regular ministers, but followed another calling. He wished only the regular ministers of congregations to be excluded.
 Mr. Wilks  was not disposed to offer any opposition to the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman. It would, in his opinion, if complied with, tend to prevent collision between Churchmen and Dissenters.
 Mr. Hume  understood that there was no hope of the Bill passing the House of Lords without a Qualification Clause. If, therefore, they were obliged to knock under—if they were obliged to yield the principle, and destroy the essence of the Bill, the question was, whether they should place the large boroughs in a situation where there would be no choice at all. If they restricted it so much, they would take away all popular choice. He put it to the noble Lord, seeing the anxiety of the House to meet the difficulties of the case, whether a 10 l.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, that the retractation had been unconditional and unqualified. He, therefore, hoped, that
 1241
 Mr. Bernal  said, there was no man in the House who was so positively opposed to the doctrine of qualification as he was, because he considered it useless, and he was sure it would prove inoperative, and it would be a source of discord throughout the country. If one man swore or made a declaration that he was worth 1,000 l. l. l.
 Mr. Tooke  said, that it was the duty of the Committee, after coming to a Resolution on the case of Sudds and Thomson, to come to a Resolution on all the other charges contained in the petition. He had, therefore, called upon the hon. and learned Member for Tralee (Mr. M. O'Connell), who seemed to conduct the prosecution, to state whether he had any evidence to tender upon the other allegations, and no such evidence being tendered, a Resolution was handed up to him, that no evidence was offered upon them. The Committee had thus disposed of all the matters referred to their consideration.
 Sir Edward Codrington  objected altogether to the principle of qualification. In the Town which he had the honour to represent a qualification of 1,000 l. l.
 Sir F. Pollock  heartily concurred in the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 Mr. Mark Philips  protested against a qualification altogether. If any noble Lord would only spend three years of his life amongst the middling classes, he would then be able to understand the feelings of those for whom he attempted to legislate. He believed, that at the expiration of that time his opinion, with respect to a qualification, would be entirely changed. He had seen so much in the old constituencies of heart-burnings, arising from the system of qualification under Sturges Bourne's Act, which had been called a qualification of bricks against brains— that he could never consent to any measure that contained a qualification of this nature. Though he had given this measure his most cordial support in its original state, yet as one of those who had done so, he could not allow this Clause to be introduced without expressing his deep disappointment, and without complaining of the pressure which had compelled his Majesty's Ministers to depart from their original proposition. He could not allow this vote to be taken without rising to declare that the introduction of a qualification into this measure would give great dissatisfaction, and was perfectly uncalled for.
 Mr. Ward  hoped no division would take place on this question, because he felt that it would give no fair test of the real opinions of the House in a case like the present. No man was more strongly opposed to qualification than himself, but he thought a division on the subject would be impolitic. Though the Qualification Clause was unjust, unwise, and wholly inoperative, as it would only affect the conscientious and scrupulous burgess, yet he should oppose any division on it now, because his desire was, after making the Bill as perfect as circumstances would permit, to secure its passing into a law. A division, he would repeat, would in no respect give the real sense of the House. They had already had a division upon the same principle, and it was well known to the country that the new clause was none of theirs. He always with great regret differed with the hon. Member for the City of London (Mr. Grote), but on this occasion, these Amendments being taken both by the Ministry and that House under protest, and the concessions of Government being met in so conciliatory a spirit by the other side, the Debate had taken quite a different turn, and he would not like to see a division upon this point. The circumstances of the case had induced him (Mr. Ward), not to give expression to his opinions upon the practical difficulty which a Reformed House of Commons experienced in working with an unreformed hereditary House of Peers. Although he was satisfied that if that House had taken a strong and decided course, they would have had the sense of the country in their favour. But as the hon. Members on the opposite side had, through the right hon. Member for Tamworth, their legitimate leader, expressed their willingness to accept the concessions made by the Government in that House, it put an end to all discussions upon that point. He disapproved of many of the concessions which had been made; among others, the perpetuation of the rights of freemen, and the appointment of aldermen for six years, which was almost as bad as the present system; yet he was ready to pass over these objections, in order to show the spirit of conciliation that existed in the House,
 1197
 Mr. Elphinstone  objected to this and the three following clauses inserted by the Lords, and moved that Clause T be rejected.
 The Attorney-General  highly approved of the proposition of his noble Friend. It was but just that the Town-council should be permitted to submit those whom they considered to be eligible to the approbation of the Crown; for it should be observed that before any one of these persons so named could be admitted to the office, he must be approved by the Crown. It was contended that by the Bill the appointment would be practically in the Town-council, because the Council recommended the persons to be appointed. He could not perceive that this was a necessary consequence. The Crown could not be supposed to have any local knowledge as to the fitness or unfitness of the parties; they must be recommended or pointed out by some one, if not by the Council, and it would be just as fair to say that in the former case these Magistrates were in fact appointed not by the Crown, but by that individual who had, on being consulted, pointed out the individuals most fit to fill the situation. He altogether differed with his hon. and learned Friend as to the inference he attempted to draw from the Town-council being permitted to select in the first instance, the persons most eligible for these situations—for, so far from thinking that the prerogative of the Crown would be infringed thereby, he saw reason to be convinced that the restoration of the Clause to its original state would have the directly contrary effect, and tend to increase the prerogative of the Crown; and for this express reason, that the Crown would hereafter be sure to appoint the Magistrates in the new Corporations upon the recommendation of the Council; whilst it was perfectly notorious that at present, in close Corporations, both the situation and appointment were made by the Corporation itself.
 The Attorney-General  thought that all the difficulties which surrounded this question might be overcome by consenting to the suggestion of his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The power over Church property which it was proposed to confer on the Council as a body, without regard to the religious opinions of its members, was exercised in Scotland both by individual Dissenters and by Councils, some of the Members of which were Dissenters, with the best possible results. He thought, however, that Municipal Corporations ought to have nothing to do with Church patronage. They were never instituted for any such purpose, but were established with a view of managing only the local affairs of the towns, such as lighting, paving, cleansing, &c. To this object they should be confined, and the sooner their right of Church patronage was abolished the better.
 Mr. Jervis  said, that the object was to provide that every one taking office should have a  bonâ fide
 Mr. Jervis  was quite sure that both parties were most willing to bring the whole case fairly and fully under discussion. He considered the proposed Amendment as most vexatious, for no man could qualify under it, unless he was ready at any moment to declare that he was worth 1,000 l.
 Sir Robert Peel  considered that they had sent up the Bill to the Lords with a qualification of a continuous nature; it was now proposed to add a pecuniary qualification, subject to the same rules; but the effect of that proposition would be to destroy the continuous qualification.
 Sir Robert Peel  had never said that a Town-Clerk's office was analogous to property, nor had he proposed the grant of compensation: that was a clause in the Bill when it was sent to the House of Lords, he and the hon Member apparently wished for the same thing—viz., that the corporate officers should hold their places upon their present tenures, and they both seemed to think it exceedingly hard that the Council should be called upon to grant compensation.
 Sir Robert Peel  observed, that justice seemed to require that every officer should be protected by the Bill, according to the tenure of his situation. He would not have given Town-Clerks their appointments for life, but where it was found that they so held them he would have protected them to that extent. In this respect he would have adopted the principle of the Scotch Municipal Reform which was likewise observed
 1214
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that hon. Members seemed to think that he had proposed his Amendment with a view of restricting the constituency, when in fact his proposition of taking the rate as the qualification would enlarge it. He did not consider his proposition very unreasonable. Hon. Members argued as if the House had been unanimous upon the subject. Now, when the Bill was formerly before the House, he moved as an amendment that the qualification should be 40 l. l. l. l.
 Sir Robert Peel,  in consequence of an observation which had fallen from the hon. Gentleman, felt himself called upon to restate what he had already stated yesterday —namely, that in what he said with regard to these Amendments, he was only giving expression to his own opinions, and not expressing the opinions of others. To the opinions which he entertained before these Amendments were made, he was still ready to adhere, but at the same time, he was prepared, as far as possible, to acquiesce in any Amendments, beside those which he himself suggested, which would have the effect of leading to an amicable arrangement of the question. He proposed the qualification of rating not in lieu of the other, as seemed to be imagined by the line of argument which had been adopted, but concomitantly with the pecuniary qualification, and for the purpose of widening the sphere from which the Town Council was to be selected. Hon. Members threatened a division. Well, then, were they to divide upon the qualification, or were they not? If a division were resolved upon, the sooner it was resorted to the better; but, in his opinion, notwithstanding all the absurdity that had been attributed to the qualification, there would be still more in pressing a division which hon. Gentlemen would go to with a trembling hope that they might prove unsuccessful.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the principle of qualification having been conceded by the noble Lord, he (Sir R. Peel) was clear as to this point, that the simplest test as to qualification that could be proposed would be by far the best. He did not think that the selection of one-sixth of the highest ratepayers was a good test. It certainly had the advantage of simplicity, but it was at the same time fraught with an infinity of disadvantages, that countervailed completely all the benefit derivable from its simple nature. In the Jury Bill, where a qualification was required, he had selected the simplest as the best test, and a man who
 1194 l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the proposition he made was, that the 1,000 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Sir Robert Peel  wished that the advice as to conciliation had been sooner followed; for motives were attributed in the strongest terms to the House of Lords, for the Amendments which they had made, which were not, he was persuaded, justifiable. Even the hon. Gentleman who spoke last said, that the Amendments of the House of Lords cast an opprobrium on the Dissenters. Now he must declare, that he did not believe the House of Lords had the slightest intention of fixing or implying any opprobrium on the Dissenting body, by the introduction of the Amendment which they had made. He, for one, would never consent to take any part, either directly or indirectly, which would frustrate the effects of that political and religious equality which had been established by the Repeal of the Test and Corporation Acts; but he must say, that the Clause which prevented the members of one spiritual creed from appointing the ministers of another, did not, in his opinion, interfere in any way with the beneficial consequences of the abolition of such laws as the Test and Corporation Acts. If by Act of Parliament, the nomination of Unitarian or other Dissenting ministers were placed in the hands of members of the Church of England, such a legislative provision would be reprobated by all parties. It was no answer to that position to say that the parties who in such cases would be selected would in
 1219 1220 1221
 Sir Robert Peel  thought, that the alteration made by the Lords in this part of the Bill was a very great improvement, and he should cordially support the proposition of his learned Friend (Sir W. Follett) for retaining that alteration. He thought the Amendment of the Lords drew the proper distinction between political and judicial functions. He thought that the Lords in making that Amendment had acted upon the principle recommended by the Bill itself, which did not leave the Recorder, or any other judicial officer, of any corporate city or town to be popularly elected, but enabled the Crown to appoint, arbitrarily and at once, without reference to the Town-council, or to the constituency of the Town-council. It was hard that they could not discuss these subjects without having motives imputed to them. The hon. Member for Liskeard was not justified in attributing to them interested motives, a new-fangled loyalty, or in fact anything but a desire to improve the measures which were brought before them for their consideration. If the hon. Gentle-
 1224
 Sir Robert Peel  thought there had been a general concurrence in the House of Lords on the part of the Government, as to the propriety of inserting these Clauses.
 Sir Ronald Ferguson  was opposed to the principle of qualification, and hoped that the country would pour in numerous and strong petitions against it, and calling upon the Lords to remove all qualification. He thought it most unjust to establish rates of qualification—1,000 l. l. l.
 Mr. Sergeant Wilde  was satisfied that the result of a division would be that it would lead to an impression that a very considerable number of Members did not disapprove of the principle, although they voted in the majority from far different reasons. With respect to the question itself, he, for one, was very much gratified at the course taken by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth. He did not show any desire to triumph, but to forward a really practical measure of great public utility; and this measure going to the country with his sanction, would be efficient to a greater degree than otherwise. He was therefore desirous of acquiescing in any suggestion of his upon this occasion, because he was satisfied that in his suggestions he acted perfectly  bonâ fide,
 Mr. Sergeant Wilde  would ask, if a respectable man, having suffered a serious loss in business, was to publish it to the world that he was no longer solvent? He thought this would be a very injurious Clause.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  had not meant to impute bad faith to the noble Lord. All he meant to say was, that this Amendment was not a  bonâ fide
 Mr. Williams Wynn  then said, that the Amendment which had been just agreed to, and which threw the  onus probandi
 Mr. Clay  thought the arguments of the hon. Members for London and Bath were unanswerable; but it would be better not to press the Amendment to a division. He was against the principle of qualification, but it was necessary to make some compromise. He begged to ask the noble Lord whether there would be any test as to the amount of qualification or any scrutiny, and he would also be glad to know whether
 1198
 Sir William Follett  had a great objection to the original Clause, and he should, therefore, oppose the noble Lord's proposition. It was the first time since the settlement of the Constitution that an attempt had been made to affect the power of the Crown in regard to appointments to the magistracy. Under the original Clause the Crown had only the power of appointing at the recommendation of the council. Could any one deny that that was a limitation of the prerogative? Suppose the Crown should reject the persons recommended by the council, was the borough to be without magistrates, or was there to be a perpetual and unseemly collision between the council and the Crown? That was no imaginary case; for a similar one existed in the city of London at this moment. The wards had a power of electing their aldermen, and the Court of Aldermen had a power of rejecting any person so elected if they chose. They had done it in many instances; and even at that moment it was a question of law how far the aldermen had a power of filling up vacancies in their own body. He also objected to the original Clause because the magistrates were virtually created by popular election. The council was popularly elected, and their election of magisrates would naturally partake of the same character. He thought it highly objectionable that the magistrates should be mixed up with party feeling or local politics, and was convinced the administration
 1222
 Lord Howick  thought it better for all parties that the Town-Council should have the option either to continue a man in office or to allow compensation. Whenever an officer was unexceptionable, and sufficiently discharged his duties, it would be desirable tha the should be continued, but the Town-Council ought to have, by power of dismissal, that due control which all Governments possessed over persons in subordinate situations. The right hon. Baronet had admitted last night that the rule ought to be the same as on a change of Ministers, where, although the principal persons went out, the Clerks remained in their places. Ministers on coming into office had the power, under a certain responsibility, to dismiss any of the inferior servants in the different departments, such as the permanent Under Secretaries, Clerks, &c. These all held their appointments strictly during pleasure, but practically it was during good behaviour. The Town-Council of a borough would act under a similar responsibility, but it ought to possess a similar power, and the constituency would always require to know why a particular officer had been dismissed. As to the Town-Clerk, no arrangement could be satisfactory unless he were made dependent upon the Town-Council, and the power of resorting to the Court of
 1215
 Viscount Palmerston : The use of the word "impertinent" is clearly inconsistent with our orders, and when an hon. Member is conscious that he has used, in the warmth of debate, a word that is not fitting, his regard for his own honour, if not his regard for the dignity of this House, ought to render him anxious to take the first opportunity to retract that word, when its impropriety is pointed out to him. It is not derogatory to the character of any hon. Member to set himself right with the House, whose orders he has offended. Indeed, the more he respects himself, the more anxious will he be to do it.
 The Solicitor General  said, that in rising to address the House, he laboured under some difficulty, from the apprehension that the motives of those with whom he acted might be misunderstood. If he conceded himself to this qualification Clause which had been introduced, he must still say, that he was of opinion it would be found to deteriorate from the Bill. But if a qualification were introduced, it appeared to him, as had been stated yesterday, when the matter was discussed, that it would be altogether nugatory, unless the qualification was one which was to be continuous. He admitted the presence of the difficulty, but he said that difficulty was one which resulted from the introduction of the qualification, and he felt that this difficulty was tenfold enhanced by the present provision. This was no new provision, because it was introduced into every private Act, and he was told that in an Act of Parliament which regarded the local Government of the city of Worcester, the very words proposed were used; such being the case, he thought they were bound to put this Clause into such a state as should carry out his intention with the least possible evil. It had been proposed yesterday to insert the words at the time of making the declaration in reference to the qualification; if these words were so inserted, then the matter referred to the qualification at the moment of the party establishing it. The Clause went on to say, that if any person should act in any of the capacities set forth without being duly qualified, they should, for every such offence, forfeit and pay the sum of 50 l. 1274
 An Hon. Member  begged to suggest whether this Clause did not hold out too strong an inducement or motive for parties to bring vexatious actions, with a view, perhaps, to crush a political foe. He would propose that no other party be entitled to bring the action but a burgess of the town in which the individual resided; and, also, that notice should be given of such action fourteen days after an action should lie.
 Mr. Blackburne  said, he had voted for the proposal made by the Attorney-General, on the principle that the possession of a qualification in the first instance would be sufficient.
 The Solicitor-General  said, that agreeably to a suggestion thrown out, he would add to the Amended Clause a proviso, to the effect that no such action shall be instituted by any persons other than the burgesses of every such borough, and also that notice shall be served on the defendant within fourteen days after such offence of the intention to bring such action. The hon. and learned Gentleman also proposed that an addition, to the effect that if any person, shall by reason of not being so qualified in respect of rating or estate, prove not to be qualified to act, &c., should be introduced after the words—"If any Mayor, Alderman, or Councillor shall act without having made the declaration herein required, or without being duly qualified."
 Sir George Strickland  admitted that the leading feature of the petition was praying that House to reject the Bill as it had come from the House of Lords. Now he hoped that the wishes of the petitioners would be gratified by the Amendments which had been made to the Bill as it now stood; because he was sure that any rational person would admit that the great and leading principles of the measure had been fully preserved. He considered that the leading principle of the Bill was a popular control over the Municipal Corporations; that popular control had been preserved. Another principle of the measure was, that appointments to corporate offices should not be made for life—that also had been preserved, and, therefore, the persons appointed to these offices would be under popular control. He hoped that sentiments to which he gave expression would be heard in the county from which the petition emanated, and he was happy to say that that most odious provision which excluded Dissenters from the exercise of those rights which they had so long enjoyed, had been excluded from the alterations that were made by the House of Lords, and that the attempt to restore the Test and Corporation Acts had totally failed. He would further say, that the House had done all in its power to make such alterations as would render the Bill efficient, and he hoped that for the peace and happiness of the country those Amendments would pass in another place.
 Mr. Blackburn  hoped that those Amendments would be agreed to. The Municipal Commissioners had had a most arduous and difficult duty to perform, and they had done it with the strictest justice and impartiality. Whether they had contrived to please all parties was another question, and was not very likely; but he believed they had faithfully performed the duty allotted to them.
 Dr. Lushington  was happy to add his testimony to that of his hon. Colleague in support of the petition. Circumstances had intervened since the meeting which would render it advisable for him to abstain from making such observations as he should otherwise have made, because they might lead to an inopportune contention. He must be allowed to say that in that immense district, containing 370,000 inhabitants, the majority of them entertained the sentiments contained in that petition, and if justice were not accorded to the wishes of the people, they were prepared by every constitutional effort, to support their representatives in Parliament in finally obtaining it.
 The Solicitor-General  said, he should then propose, as another Amendment to this Clause, that it should be lawful for a party against whom an action might be brought, upon obtaining a Judge's order to serve the plantiff with a notice requiring him to give, within a limited time, security for costs in case he should fail in his proceedings, and that the proceedings should be stayed till such security was given and approved off; also providing that no such action shall be brought except by a burgess of the borough, and only in case he shall give notice within fourteen days after the ground of action accrued of his intention to bring such action.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought both Clauses came now legitimately under the consideration of the House, and the best course would be to discuss first what they intended to substitute before being called on to reject the Lords' Amendments. He was ready to admit that the proposition which he made last night was not altogether free from objection, but it was the best, the most direct, and the most satisfactory that he could devise after mature consideration, and he had the gratification to find, that, the general opinion was in favour of it upon both sides of the House. That proposition was, that a Clause should be introduced by way of amendment to this proviso, by which within a reasonable time after the passing of the act, Corporate Bodies should be bound to sell their Ecclesiastical property; he had framed a Clause to that effect, and the only alteration in it, as compared with the proposal which he made last night was one to which he believed the House would be most ready to accede,—namely, that instead of applying the whole of the sum realized by the sale of those livings at once to the use of the town, the capital should be invested in the public securities, and the interest only applied in aid of the borough-fund. In compliance with a suggestion which had been made to him since entering the House, he had also to propose that the sales of this property should be carried on under the direction, advice, and control of the Board of Ecclesiastical Commissioners. (The right hon. Gentleman brought up the Clause, to the effect above stated.)
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the alteration which had been made had left certain boroughs without the means, unless by resorting to some new rate, of defraying the expense attending the prosecutions of the additional number of criminals which had been transferred to them. At the same time he doubted, with the noble Lord, the propriety of agreeing to this Clause, standing as it did; but the question was, whether the House ought not to add some Amendment to the Amendment of the Lords.
 Mr. Wynn  expressed his approbation of the Clause proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and hoped that the suggestion of placing the sale of corporate church-property under the control of Church Commissioners would be attended to. He hoped, also, that some provision would be made, should vacancies occur in the interim, for authorising the Council or the Bishop of the Diocese, to fill them up.
 Dr. Lushington : The proposition of Government had received such general approbation that he should be unjustifiably trespassing on the time of the House were he to enter into any discussion of its merits generally, or to attempt an answer to the arguments of the hon. and learned Member for Bath. Those arguments had not in the slightest degree convinced him of the impropriety of the Clause, nor had any thing which had been previously urged. As to the opinion which had been expressed by some hon. Members, that the Church of England should give to the people the power of choosing their own ministers, he could only say that the result of all his experience as to the mode of presentations and nominations, as well as of elections, led him to the firm conviction, that it would be injurious to the interests of the Established Church for its Ministers to be elected on the popular principle. He would not detain the House by entering into his reasons for that opinion, except by saying (which was his chief argument in favour of the proposed Clause) that the church patronage, placed in the hands of a large number of persons—such as a Corporation, led to practices, in his opinion, most degrading to the Church and to the candidates themselves. Now, having thus stated his approbation of the proposed Clause, the only question with him was, how it could be most beneficially and effectually carried into execution? He was clearly of opinion that a reasonably long period of time ought to be allowed for the sale of the Church property: that they might not, by compelling a hasty sale, deprive the Corporations of the full benefit of the property; particularly as they were now bringing advowsons into the market at the time when they had fallen greatly in value. In his opinion, it was impossible to place the discretion to be exercised as to the sale in better hands than in those of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners (as recently constituted, consisting both of clergy and laymen) who he considered would be enabled to form a just judgment of the period when the sale should be effected. With a due regard to the interests of the parishioners to whom
 1287 1288
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  then proposed a proviso, to the effect, that in the case of a vacancy arising before any sale shall have taken place, such vacancy shall be supplied by the Bishop of the diocese.
 Mr. Ruthven  opposed the bringing in of the Bill on the ground of its being an  ex post facto
 Dr. Nichol  supported the motion. If the Bill when brought in, carried out the principle contemplated by the hon. and learned Gentleman it should have his cordial support.
 The Solicitor-General  himself bound for the reason stated by his hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney-General, to oppose the motion for bringing in this Bill. There might be a vast number of cases in which marriages of this description had been unavoidably postponed to the day or two before the Act passed, and he could not agree, for the sake of one case of fraud however gross, to do such a flagrant injustice as to render all these marriages without exception void.
 Lord John Russell  moved that a Committee be appointed to draw up the reasons to be assigned, in a conference with their Lordships, why this House disapproved of some of the Amendments which their Lordships had made in the Bill.
 Lord John Russell  did not believe the proviso would have any such effect as the hon. Gentleman apprehended.
 Lord John Russell  would next proceed to the Schedules. He did not purpose to object altogether to the Amendment introduced by the Lords; but should propose to take a middle course, between the scale as originally agreed to by the Commons, and that which had been substituted by the Lords. By the scale adopted by the Commons, it was provided, that there should be no town divided into wards unless the population amounted to 12,000; but the Amendment of the Lords commenced with towns having a population of 6,000. His proposition was, that all towns having a population under 9,000 should not be divided into wards. Towns from 9,000 to 14,000 inhabitants should be divided into two wards, with six Aldermen and eighteen Councillors; from 14,000 to 18,000 into three, six Aldermen and eighteen Councillors; from 18,000 to 24,000, into four wards, with eight Aldermen and twenty-four Councillors; from 24,000 to 36,000 into five wards, with ten Aldermen and thirty Councillors; from 36,000 to 48,000 into six wards, with twelve Aldermen and forty-five Councillors. With regard to Bristol and Liverpool, he pro-
 1289
 Lord John Russell  moved that the Town of Alnwick, which had been struck out by the Lords, be restored to this schedule.
 Lord John Russell  thought, that with regard to the suggestion, that in the interim the right of appointment should be either in the Council or the Bishops, that as his right hon. Friend had fixed a time for such sales by the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, these latter could not delay the sale beyond the time specified. He was happy to find that so much unanimity prevailed with respect to the principle of the Clause; for though he certainly would cast no insinuation upon the motives which led to the introduction of the amended Clause, yet he should have opposed its retention in the Bill.
 Lord John Russell  then proposed that the House should proceed to the consideration of the Clause disqualifying Members of the Council not belonging to the Church of England from interfering with the patronage of livings in the gift of Corporations. He believed the most convenient way would be to take Clause L in conjunction with Clause M, and to discuss the principle of both at the same time.
 Lord John Russell  said, on the Clause which provided that a new rate should be levied at the Cinque Ports, he doubted very much whether the House ought to agree to the Amendment of the Lords. That Amendment was for levying a rate according to rules that had not been in practice in those boroughs before. He thought it would be better to leave the law in such a state as that some distinct legislation might be come to with respect to the Cinque Ports, rather than to introduce any new practice into those boroughs by this measure.
 Lord John Russell  would first deal with the postponed Clauses, and afterwards take the schedules into consideration. He intended to propose to leave out that part of the preamble which related to rights of common and other property, as well as that part which referred to the exemption from tolls, and to introduce words placing that exemption on the same footing as it had been placed by the House of Commons, before the Bill went to the Lords—viz., that all persons now possessing actual or inchoate rights of exemption should be allowed to preserve them. As to the rights of common, he should be fully justified, on all grounds of public justice and sound policy, in proposing that all rights of common should cease with the present possessors. He did not, however, object to making some concession to the other branch of the Legislature upon this point.
 Lord John Russell  proposed to omit the whole of the words introduced by the other House into Clause 15, respecting the Councillors' roll, and the lists of persons qualified to be made out by the Overseers.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the question which he would now proceed to was that which was involved in Clause 47, whether the qualification required by the Lords' Amendment should be a continuous qualification, the party having given a  bona fide 1272 bona fide
 Mr. Hawes  also opposed the motion and protested against a slur being cast upon the character of those persons in their absence, who had contracted marriages of this kind—many of which promised to be most happy.
 Mr. Charles Buller  observed, that the
 1278 l.
 Colonel Sibthorp  supported the proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 Mr. Harvey  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman's Amendment was of no value whatever. His object was to protect parties from vexatious prosecutions, by rendering it necessary that the informer shall be a burgess, and that notice shall be given within fourteen days after the alleged offence. This would not protect persons from vexatious proceedings, as all such informations would be of a party
 1279
 Mr. Baines  asked the noble Lord (J. Russell) and the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel), as regarded the criterion of qualification, whether a man holding a house of the actual value of 90 l. l.
 Mr. Baines  observed that the prayer of the petition was, that the Bill, as amended by the Lords, should be rejected by that House. He was persuaded, however, that the meeting from which that petition emanated could not have been aware of the alterations which had been since suggested and effected, and he was only expressing what he knew would be the opinion of the petitioners when aware of those alterations, when he said that he wished the House not to reject the Bill.
 Mr. Robinson  said, that he had an almost insuperable objection to this Amendment. He thought that under this Clause, great evils would arise. Suppose the case of a man who from some cause or other might become an object of dislike to the great majority of the Council; that man would be liable to be oppressed by the joint purse of the majority, who might seek to annoy him by invalidating his claim to the continuance of his office. Would any man contend, seriously, that a man who at the time of his being elected had a  bona fide l. 1273
 Mr. Sinclair  was much gratified, though perhaps somewhat surprised, by the altered tone evinced by gentlemen on the opposite side of the House. He had sat there for two hours on Monday afternoon, during which a spirit of defiance and hostility had characterised every petition that was presented, and every speech by which it was introduced. Any hint that it was
 1267 1268
 Mr. Warburton  said, this was a security as far as it went, but the suggestion did not go far enough. In the choice of local Commissioners politics did not interfere; politics did interfere with corporation questions. They had heard much of the facility with which the Act might be amended hereafter; but let it be remembered that, in respect to the Reform Bill, they had been told that that was a permanent measure, and so would they be jeered at hereafter in respect to this Bill. Any person might bring a suit under this Clause, and he thought that they ought to limit this class of actions against the persons inculpated. If he looked at the Attorney-General, or the Solicitor-General, they could not be suspected of improper bias, if this power were vested in them; or if it were the hon. and learned Member for Huntingdon, or the late Solicitor-General (who differed from him widely in politics), he should, of course,
 1275
 Mr. Warburton  hoped the House would not consent to bringing in this Bill. It was intended to meet a particular case; and he did not consider it just, that a general Bill should be introduced, narrowing the beneficial effect of the Act to all, in order to meet one or two singular cases of fraud and concealment.
 Mr. Freshfield  thought, that this was a town which ought never to have been meddled with, and objected to its restoration.
 Mr. Freshfield  suggested to the right hon. Gentleman that it would be necessary to provide for the presentation to any vacancy which should occur between the passing of the Act and the sale. Should any such occurrence take place how and by whom was the presentation to be made?
 Mr. Freshfield  thought, the Bill necessary to remedy cases of individual hardship.
 Mr. Roebuck  could not help considering the Clause proposed by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer as one of a most gross and disgraceful nature. It proposed to meet the difficulty felt by cer-
 1285 Oh! Oh! Oh! 1286
 Mr. Roebuck  would answer the hon. Member's question by explaining the general nature of a proposition which he intended to bring forward on the subject of the House of Peers early next Session. His object in that proposition would be that the  veto veto 1269
 Mr. Wilks  was apprehensive that the proviso would increase the patronage of the Bishop, to which he strongly objected. He would suggest that the Ecclesiastical Commissioners should be directed to fix a period within which the sale should take place; and then, if any vacancy should in the meantime occur, he should have no objection to the Bishop making the appointment.
 Mr. Hume  felt proud in contrasting the conduct of the reformed House of Commons with that of the unreformed House of Lords, in reference, particularly, to the great Measure of Municipal Reform, and that contrast shewed, more clearly than ever, the absolute necessity that some speedy and efficient reform should be brought about in the latter branch of the Legislature. He would take the opportunity, in answer to the hon. Member, of making known what he, too, understood by such a reform, and what, moreover, it was his intention next Session to propose on this subject. The first requisite for a system of good government was the responsibility of those who governed. The House of Lords was not a responsible body, and therefore good government was not to be confidently reckoned upon on their part. The irresponsibility, powers, and privileges, which they possessed, might have been well enough in the times when the body was instituted, but the case was very different now. The House of Commons had been reformed, and was responsible; what possible reason could be assigned why the Lords, a co-ordinate branch of the Legislature, should not, in like manner, be reformed and become responsible? He would now take the liberty of reading a notice which he intended to put on the list for next Session, and which he had had by him ready for some time past. The notice was, that he should early next Session move the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the number of
 1270 1271
 Mr. Borthwick  was in favour of the motion; but the impatience of the House was so strongly manifested that the hon. Gentleman was not audible almost throughout the whole of his speech.
 Mr. Lennard  said, if property were to be the test of qualification, was it not sufficient that the party was possessed of it at the time of taking office. They ought not to subject men to this inquisitorial inconvenience, and he would be no party to such proceeding. Was not this a new principle, that a man having once established his qualification should be again compelled to show and prove it? Had they ever heard of a county Member in that House, for instance, being challenged as to his qualification from the fact of his property having been lessened from causes over which he had no control? To lay down such a principle as that was intolerable and insulting. He would further propose to strike out that part of the Clause which gave one-half of the penalty to the informer.
 Mr. Lennard  suggested that the nomination to livings, when taken from the Corporations, should be given to the parishioners. There was no point upon which the feelings and wishes of any body of people should be more considered than in the appointment of their spiritual pastor. He thought it would be most desirable that the parishioners should at least have a voice in the appointment of the clergyman. He begged to press this point most earnestly upon the consideration of the Government.
 Mr. Serjeant Talfourd  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the Marriage Act Amendment Act which had received the Royal Assent on Monday last. The House was aware that the Bill came from the House of Lords with the provision that all marriages celebrated two years before the passing of the Act should be declared valid. That he considered inconsistent with the intentions of this House, in passing the measure; but in the House of Commons it was proposed, not that marriages should be legalised which took place up to the time of the passing of the Act, but those which were solemnized previous to the printing of the Act, which
 1290
 Mr. Sergeant Talfourd  replied stating that his chief reason for advocating the Bill was the supposition that there must have been an error in the Act.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, there were four lectureships in the City of Oxford, founded by the late Earl of Lichfield, and endowed with fifteen shares in the Oxford Canal; he wished to know what effect this Clause would have in such a case? He trusted that the hon. and learned Attorney-General would state, for the in formation of the House, what he had been so good as to state to him personally, as to the mode in which those lectureships would be treated.
 Mr. Ward  thought that all that had occurred must have convinced the House that the Qualification Clause involved them more and more in difficulty. Let the House modify it as they would, it would hereafter be necessary to repeal it.
 The Attorney-General  replied, that such cases as those referred to by the hon. Member, being of the nature of charitable foundations, would be included within the exceptions to the Clause.
 The Attorney-General  should be most desirous to waive his amendment if it was the pleasure of the House that he should do so, but he denied that the Clause as sent down from the House of Lords would have been less objectionable without it.
 The Attorney-General  objected to the Bill on the ground, that the Act having passed, the line was now drawn between the marriages celebrated before and after the passing of it into a law: it would
 1291
 Sir Robert Peel  thought it was necessary on occasions like the present to overlook minor difficulties, and although he saw undoubtedly great obstacles in the way of compelling sales of property of this nature, yet considering that the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman would relieve them from the pressure of considerable difficulty on both sides in the way of a satisfactory settlement of the Corporation Question, he was content for the present to waive all such objections. The adoption
 1282
 Sir Robert Peel  observed, that it was fruitless to divide now upon the principle of qualification. The noble Lord opposite, for the purpose of facilitating the settlement of the question, had stated what were the points he was disposed to concede. Of these the principle of a qualification was one. He had supported that principle, and he did not think he should raise himself in the opinion of any hon. Member if he were now to get up in his place and say that he did not think any qualification necessary. But when the noble Lord consented to a qualification he was bound to make it as good as possible. For his own part, it would quite have answered his purpose if the Clause had stood in the form in which it was originally framed; but, when the Attorney-General inserted words which made it
 1277
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that if questions were now to be asked which had been decided last night, the debate would be interminable. He wished that every parish would rate upon the real value. Taking a nominal value or any other scale than the real value was an exceedingly absurd proceeding and contrary to common sense.
 Mr. Sergeant Wilde  thought it was impossible to suppose that the House of Lords were disinclined to take these amendments into consideration, because they would be found not inconsistent with the good objects which they sought. A  bona fide bona fide l. s. s. l. bona fide 1276
 Mr. Sergeant Wilde  said, that it would have been absolutely impossible for that House to adopt the clause which had been sent down by the House of Lords, a clause than which the greatest enemy to the Church of England could not have devised one more injurious to its interests, without some such proposition as that of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer. It
 1283
 Mr. Sergeant Wilde  supported the motion on the general grounds laid down by his lion, and learned Friend, the Member for Reading. It was true the Bill was not introduced without a knowledge that there was at least one case of fraud:—a case in which the marriage was concealed up to the very day of the passing of the Act; but it was also introduced with the strong conviction that there were other cases of the same description.
 Mr. Clay  presented a Petition from inhabitants of the Borough of the Tower Hamlets, agreed to at a meeting held on Monday, which consisted of not fewer than 10,000 persons. All the resolutions were unanimously adopted, and within a few hours the petition was signed by 3,000 persons whose residences were attached, and if another day had been allowed, 10,000 names would have been added to the petition, which in substance stated that the electors of the Tower Hamlets viewed with satisfaction the introduction of the Municipal Reform Bill, and their regret at the mutilations which had been made by the other House. They stated, that in consequence of this and other proceedings of the other House it had become apparent that in that House there was a disposition to frustrate and delay all reforms, and therefore they prayed that such a reform might be made in the other House as would render it useful to the country. The petitioners declared themselves ready to support Ministers. He trusted that this petition would yet operate as a warning to the other branch of the Legislature, and that it would not continue to proceed in a manner which he regretted to say was spreading a spirit of contempt for that House among the people.
 Sir William Follett  perfectly concurred in the expediency of adopting the Amendment of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer under the circumstances in which the Legislature was now placed with reference to this Bill. He thought it was the hest mode of avoiding all the difficulty felt to exist to the passing of the Bill whether in the conscientious feelings of individuals, or in the views taken of the Bill in another place. This Clause, as it was framed, applied in strictness to ecclesiastical patronage. Now, in his opinion, some disposition other than that which now existed was necessary with respect to that patronage in these Corporations which, though not strictly ecclesiastical, savoured strongly of it. He meant lectureships in chapels, the gift of Corporations, which were in value often only 50 l. l.
 Lord Howick  contended that it ought to be inserted in the schedule, and therefore supported the restoration.
 Lord Morpeth  presented a Petition from Freeholders, Merchants, and Bankers of the West Riding of Yorkshire, agreed to at a public meeting held on Monday last. The petition, for the purpose of avoiding loss of time, had been signed by the Chairman, Sir Francis Wood. He was informed, from authority in which he placed the most implicit confidence, that the meeting was most numerously attended, there being 15,000 persons present—that the persons were most respectable, and its proceedings most orderly. The petitioners stated that they approached that House with feelings of gratitude for the past, and confidence for the future. They expressed their approbation of the Bill for the Reform, of Municipal Corporations as originally introduced into that House; and, with equal force, they expressed their disapprobation of the alterations subsequently introduced into the Bill, and in consequence of the character of these alterations, they solicited that House, with the same resolution they had hitherto manifested, now to reject the mutilated Bill, as being useless and unfit to afford solid satisfaction to the people of England. That was the prayer of the petition, and he submitted it to the notice of the House with the confident assurance, derived from his own knowledge of the sober and rational character of those whom he had the honour to represent, that in dealing with a measure of such vast importance, of the two alternatives that might present themselves, they would prefer that which he trusted the House would be able to do with honour and advantage to themselves, by embracing judicious amendments, in place of giving the measure a precipitate rejection; and in so doing, they would be effecting a great practical good, and steadily adhere to the great principle by which those whom he had the honour of representing had been ever influenced, of being at the head of every great movement of national amendment in religion, morality, and freedom.
 Mr. Villiers  said, that the people would set down the observations just made as mere vague declamation. Not one proof had been adduced. The petitioners and the hon. Member sought to perpetuate what he must deem a most mischievous system, and a most unjust tax. From the way in which the hon. Gentleman constantly talked about free trade and reciprocity, it was evident, that he knew not what he spoke about. He was not aware of the principles on which free trade and reciprocity duties were defended. It was a defensive principle that the people should be allowed to get, and ought to get, the products of their own and other countries as cheap as possible. As to other countries not following our example, if the duites were put on a proper footing of reciprocity, he apprehended that other countries would soon find it to their interest to follow our example.
 Dr. Lushington : The proceedings that had been adopted elsewhere respecting those two measures required that they should be brought under the notice of that House, and he trusted that lie would not be thought impertinent, if he stated briefly the circumstances under which they were introduced, and the manner in which they had been treated elsewhere. They had been founded on the Report of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, of whom two were Lord Chief Justices—the late Chief Justice, and the Chief Baron, and they had been produced with their unanimous assent. The propositions also underwent the discussion of the Commissioners of Real Property, and received their approbation. The Bills were then introduced by his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney-General, and debated in that House and referred to a Select Committee up stairs; and as they were of great importance to the welfare of the community, as tending to remedy some of the greatest grievances the present state of the law inflicted upon his Majesty's subjects, the Bills were passed after great consideration. The Bills were then sent up to the House of Lords in the course of June; they were
 1322
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved the third reading of the Consolidated Fund, (Appropriation) Bill.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  objected to the Amendment, and if he stood alone would resist the postponement of the third reading. The hon. Member wished for an opportunity of discussing the Municipal Corporations' Bill, just sent up to the Lords again. He earnestly hoped that there might be no need to discuss it again; and that the measure would not be returned. This House had given it the most sedulous, candid, and conciliatory attention; and whoever was friendly to its provisions, and thought they were of any value, would wish that it might never come back to the Commons. If there were any decided enemy to its provisions, he could not do better than to promote its return. If it were returned, then indeed the opportunity of discussion which the hon. Member for Middlesex desired would be afforded; but at a moment like the present, pregnant with important interests, he entreated the House not, upon any imperfect and partial view, to take a step which would materially (and he spoke advisedly) most materially prevent the completion of its wishes. He did not resort to any obvious arguments founded upon the fact that to defer the Bill till Monday would necessarily prolong the Session for another week, but he relied upon the conviction, which he thought even the hon. Member for Middlesex must feel, that to adopt his Amendment would tend to defeat the very object he contemplated. He did not wish to avoid or to prevent discussion, should it become necessary by the return of the Bill from the Lords, but he trusted that the calm tone observed and the conciliatory spirit evinced by hon. Members—and which did them infinite honour, considering the strength of their convictions—would have its due effect, since a firm but respectful attitude and demeanour were not likely to be misinterpreted, and would recommend the measure to the serious attention of the other branch of the Legislature. He only asked hon. Members to persevere in this course, to be consistent with themselves, and, as friends to the Bill, to give it the best chance of being passed
 1324
 Mr. O'Connell  trusted that his hon. Friend would comply, since no reasonable advantage could be gained by insisting upon the Amendment. As to stopping the Supplies, that was out of the question: they had been voted by the House  seriatim,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said that the second speech of his hon. Friend rendered it still more necessary to pass the Bill at once. His hon. Friend would have the goodness to recollect that he was not asking the House to do anything extraordinary, but simply to do that which was in the usual course of proceeding. If the proposition of his hon. Friend were agreed to, he would put it to the House and his hon. Friend, as men of sense and understanding, whether an impression would not be created that they wished to keep in their hands a power over the supplies, to be exercised in the event of the rejection of the Municipal Corporations' Bill as sent amended from this House? Now, that was a course which, of all others, would be most pregnant with danger. As had been said by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin—do not let the debate in another place go off on a question of etiquette; let the discussion be one, and one only, on the merits of the Amendments we have made in the Bill. His hon. Friend had said that he entertained confidence in his Majesty's present Ministers. If such were the case, let him allow them, ledged as they were on the question of Municipal Reform, to fight their own battle, and take their own chance of success. The step which he proposed was eminently qualified to weaken the Government in the public opinion; and he called on the majority of the House, composing the friends f the Municipal Reform Bill, not to peril its success by crying out it was in danger. A very unfounded statement had been put forth out of doors, that he—the person charged with the superintendence of the finances of the country—had counselled, or taken a course which countenanced, he stopping of the supplies; and that had seen made an argument against the Government, and against himself individually, as a Member of it. It was scarcely
 1327
 The Lord Advocate  moved the third reading of this Bill.
 Lord John Russell  said that, as he understood the question, the effect of such a motion as that which the hon. Member for Middlesex proposed would be, to show a great want of confidence in the Government; and the support of the Motion which had been made by his right hon. Friend, the. Chancellor of the Exchequer—as the official representative of the Government on this occasion—appeared to him to be the only right and constitutional way of showing confidence in that Government.
 Lord John Russell  brought up the Report of the Committee appointed last night to draw up reasons to be offered to the Lords for disagreeing to several of the Amendments made by the Lords in the Municipal Corporations' Bill. The noble Lord moved that a Conference be desired with the Lords on the subject matter of their Amendments in this Bill.
 Mr. Robinson  presented Petitions from Montreal, and from persons in the City of London engaged in the Timber Trade, against any alteration of the Timber Duties. He said that the Timber Trade was almost the only trade enjoyed by Canada with the mother country, and that, therefore, the petitioners in Montreal and elsewhere had viewed with alarm propositions founded on the views of political economists to alter duties. They were also in favour of a measure that would check emigration—a check which he deemed by no means desirable. As to the alterations in the duties, the prospects in many cases with which they had been made had not been realised. Here, as upon the wine duties, the liberal system had failed. When Lord Althorpe proposed the alteration of the wine duties, he declared that they would not produce the calculated benefits; the result justified his observation, for from that period France had not taken the slightest notice of our reduction of duties. Therefore had there been not only decided loss to the revenue, but grievous injury to individuals who had embarked their capital in the particular trade. The same would be found to be the case as regarded the changes of the timber duties. He would not enter upon the remarks that he might otherwise have made, had the President of the Board of Trade been present; but as the change on the timber duties had been founded on the recommendations of a Committee, he trusted that before anything were done on the timber duties, the evidence might be allowed to be in the hands of Members. Not that he placed much value in the evidence received. Indeed, he could not but
 1319
 Mr. Warburton  observed, that if the House possessed the power of inserting a Clause for placing the money voted in the bands of Commissioners, without the consent of the other House—if they could of themselves give final effect to any proposition of that nature, then they would be able to exercise the check alluded to; but if they did not possess it, it would appear that that mysterious power of which his hon. Friend talked was entirely imaginary. Any course which they could take would have no effect. There were, already, in the hands of Government Exchequer Bills sufficient to carry on the functions of the Government until Parliament should again meet. If it were proper to exercise any power of stopping the supplies, it ought to have been resorted to before they were voted; there was no such power now.
 Mr. Warburton  said, the protection at present given to the ship-owners and others in that class of the community, was to an outrageous extent, and it was
 1320
 Dr. Bowring  defended the principle of free trade and reciprocity duties, contending that the people ought to be allowed to find the best articles on the cheapest terms; and the application of that principle would be best calculated to effect the development of the greatest freedom of and improvement in trade.
 Mr. Hume  said, if the hon. Member claimed the right of going to the cheapest butcher and baker, why should he deny the privilege of going to the cheapest timber merchant. The hon. Member for Worcester said, that no man could accuse him of ignorance. He would accuse that hon. Member of ignorance. The hon. Member warned the House against the visionary theories of political economists, such as himself. He would warn the House against the hon. Member as not being a political economist, or, at least, as being altogether ignorant of the subject. The hon. Member's arguments were as contrary to all rules of true political economy as they were to common sense. According to the hon. Member they must send ships to the Baltic, and from thence to Canada, so that instead of having that timber home in two months, the vessel would have to go all round the world, in order that the timber might be improved by doubling Cape Horn. Before the hon. Member accused him of being a visionary, let him be satisfied that he was quite correct himself. The trade of the country would not benefit by any of the extravagant propositions of
 1321
 Mr. Hume  was desirous of being informed of the use of passing the Bill; he had been told that it was of no use. If, as was said, the money had been voted, and could not be recalled, what good could the Appropriation Bill accomplish? If he were wrong, he wished to be undeceived and to learn whether the measure before the House was necessary to give validity to its votes? He did not wish the Municipal Corporations' Bill to be rejected; on the contrary, he had done all that was consistent with his public duty to secure its adoption as a law; he had been as ready as any man to yield on many points, but he wished to be in a condition—if the other House rejected the Bill, and did not estimate properly the condescension that had been shown and concession that had been made—to object to the final granting of the public money. He could not help looking back to what had occurred last year, when men in full possession of the confidence of the country had been excluded from office; by whose advice it had been done he knew not, but certainly not the individual who had been principally responsible in the new Government, for he was at a distance of some thousands of miles. There must, however, have been some adviser, and, for ought he knew, what had happened last year might occur again. He considered it the duty of the House to guard against the possible recurrence of such a transaction. The House had the power—or if they had not they ought to possess it—of putting the supplies into any hands they pleased. They had voted these supplies to a liberal extent to his Majesty; and in his opinion, lest his Majesty should be led by evil counsellors to repeat the course of last year, they ought to place the dispensing of the supplies in hands on which they could depend. He could not indeed go so far as to say that he contemplated the dismissal of the present Administration in the same manner as that of last year was dismissed, but at the same time he thought that they ought to guard against the possibility of such a proceeding. He wished the House not to do anything for the purpose of offending the House of Lords, but simply to exercise the management of their affairs, and postpone for a little while the reading of a Bill before them—which, as he conceived, might easily be done without giving any such offence to that assembly—in order that they might be able to judge
 1326
 Mr. Hume  hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would not press the third read-
 1323
 Mr. Hume  referred to the form of the Appropriation Act of 1833, and said that
 1328
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  suggested that the words in the Bill—"And also reserving to all parties, who before the 12th of May in this present year shall have objected judicially to the validity of any such writ or writs on the ground of erasure, all pleas that would have been competent to them before the passing of this Act," should be left out. This provision, he contended, would place the parties engaged in pending suits in a worse situation than they were at present.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  thought there was nothing in the evidence justifying the conclusion to which the Committee on the timber duties had arrived. He did not mean to advocate the old-fashioned doctrines of exclusive trade, but he hoped the House would be cautious in meddling with subjects without the clearest demonstrations for the necessity of doing so. If hon. Members would only prove that the interests of the consumer would be consulted by the proposition of the Committee, it should have his warmest support. But in his opinion, there was no case made out to justify the proposition of the Committee.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  wanted to know distinctly whether the House did or did not possess the power of stopping the supplies, [The  Chancellor of the Exchequer
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  did not rise to underrate the importance of those measures; on the contrary, he felt, and admitted, they were measures of great importance, and deserved serious consideration. But he was not prepared to admit, that upon the footing of neglect of the interests of the people these measures had not progressed in the other House to the extent which the hon. Member anticipated. That delay was owing to the absence on the Circuit of certain learned Lords, whose legal experience was necessary to enable the House of Lords to come to a proper consideration of those Bills. If that was not sufficient, how, he would ask, did it happen that a noble individual in the other House, who was so forward to advocate the interests of the people, had not forced forward these Bills, if he thought them necessary? He believed it was generally understood that both those measures were to be brought forward at an early period of the next Session.
 Sir Frederick Trench  rose to request that his Majesty's Ministers would not take advantage of the interval between this and the meeting of Parliament, to begin, or to lay the foundation of any proceeding founded upon the resolutions of the Committee upon the timber duties, until that House should have had an opportunity of fully discussing them. He was obliged, by the desire of his constituents, to take this course, although he feared it might be interpreted into a suspicion of unfairness, which personally he did not entertain.
 The Attorney-General  brought up the Report of the Select Committee appointed to search the Journals of the House of Lords, to see what had become of two Bills, the Execution of Wills' Bill, and Administrator's Bill. He was sure that at all times he should be found exceedingly unwilling to give offence to that House, much more at this moment. He would, therefore, content himself with saying that it appeared that these two Bills had been read a second time on the 22nd of June, and referred to a Select Committee, and no further trace of them could be found.
 Mr. William Crawford  presented a Petition from the Agricultural Society of Calcutta, established to improve the agriculture of that country, having among its members the Chief Justice of Bengal, Dr. Willis, a celebrated botanist, and many eminent men.
 1378 d. 1379
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not complain of this subject having been brought under the consideration of the House; on the contrary, he admitted, that if his hon. Friend had a shadow of pretext for imagining that in a transaction of this magnitude one tittle contained in his figures or statements was true, it was his bounden duty to bring the question forward. It was to be remembered, that this was the first loan which had been contracted under circumstances similar to the present, and if there was anything wrong in it, not only ought it to be brought under the deliberation, but under the censure of the House. He complained of these resolutions only in one respect—namely, because they did not conclude with that resolution which ought to have been their legitimate consequence; and if they were true, he would invite the hon. Gentleman and those who might be found to agree with him to follow them up with a resolution, that an Address be presented to his Majesty, praying his Majesty to remove his present Chancellor of the Exchequer from the office he filled. But as to the calculations of his hon. Friend, which were the most singular he had ever seen, be would demonstrate that they were founded in a tissue of fallacies, that they, signally exhibited the most profound ignorance of the principles which ought to prevail in such a transaction, and were not worth the paper on which they were printed. He would deny that he ought to have followed the course prescribed by the hon. Gentleman. The hon. Gentleman had said he would have made a much better bargain in the 3½ per cent. stock than by the arrangement he had entered into. He would admit, for the sake of the argument, that he might; but then the hon. Gentleman ought to recollect that he was precluded from entering into such a bargain, because the very Act of
 1385 l.; l., l., 1386
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  could then only say, that he had employed Mr. Finlayson to test every one of the hon. Member's calculations; that therefore he had as good authority as he could possibly require, and from which he could assert that his hon. Friend's propositions were altogether inaccurate. The effect of a loan in the 3½ per cents, would be as follows:
 
 
 If the loan had been contracted in the New 3½ per Cents. without bonus, stock would have been £15,541,857 
 Annual charge 543,963 
 Present charge 507,022 
 Saving £36,941 
 
 or about 1,000,000 l. l., l., £17,346,890 0 
 Charge 520,406 14 
 Present Charge 507,022 0 
 Saving 13,384 14 l. l. 
 
 Stock £16,989,910 
 Dividend 509,697 
 Present charge 507,022 
 Saving 2,675 1387 1388 s. l. l. 
 
 £. s. d. 
 3½ per Cents., payable in April and October 3 14 0¼ 
 3 per Cent. Reduced 3 9 11¾ 
 New 3½ per Cents. 3 14 0 
 Consols 3 9 4 
 French 3 per Cents. 4 3 7¼ 
 French 5 per Cents. 5 1 0 
 Prussian 5 per Cents. 5 0 4¼ 
 Russian 5 per Cents. 5 0 1 1389 l, l. l. l. l. l., l. l., l. l. 1390 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was perfectly ready to submit the whole of the documents to Mr. Finlayson, and afterwards to lay them and the results on the Table of the House. Having had to provide for all that might fairly be required in the way of compensation, he had not felt himself at liberty to diminish the amount of the loan. The surplus was directed by the Act to be invested in the 3 per cents, in the name of the Accountant-General of the Court of Chancery, to await the result of contested claims.
 Mr. Robinson  contended that there would be somewhat more of difficulty attending the equalisation of the duties than hon. Members were aware of. Whenever his Majesty's Government did so, he hoped along with equalising the duties on sugar, they would effect a considerable reduction in them.
 Mr. Labouchere  was sorry that the Chancellor of the Exchequer was not in his place, in order to explain what he must consider a misconception on the part of the hon. Member. He could assure him, and the House would admit, that it was not the wish, and never was the intention, of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to take the hon. Member or the House by surprise. He could only say with regard to the question the hon. Gentleman had mentioned that he knew it was the opinion and intention of his right hon. Friend, when the measure was first proposed for the consideration of the House, as due to the West-India colonies, to place the coffee of the East Indies under the same restrictions of certificate of growth. That certainly was his intention from the commencement. He
 1380
 Mr. Warburton  recommended his hon. Friend to withdraw his Resolutions for the present, on the understanding that the counter-calculations of Mr. Finlayson should also be submitted to public inspection. Granting the principle of borrowing in stock of a low denomination, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had made very good terms; but he very much questioned the propriety of such a procedure. In spite of all that had been said against the old principle of negotiating loans of this nature, 5–6ths had
 1391
 Mr. Buckingham  wished to remind the House of the depressed state in which the commerce of India was at present, from the injustice with which she had been treated with respect to the articles imported from that country into England. There were not fewer than 800 millions of acres of surface in that country abundantly productive, and the people were industrious to an extraordinary degree; and yet, with all these advantages, the trade of the country was almost annihilated. India had been treated most unfairly by this country. They had given it a charter, and had professed to provide for it institutions similar to their own; and yet all the time they had been only practising delusion, for their promises were never realised. He trusted that the professions that had been made
 1381
 Mr. Hume  rose to move, pursuant to notice, a series of resolutions on the subject of the late loan of 15,000,000 l. l. l., l., l. s., l., 1st That the loan of 15,000,000 l. 1382 l. s. d. l. He has given £75 Stock Consols, and 25 Reduced, =£100 of 3 per Cent. Stock for every £100 money. 
 
 £ s. d. 
 Also 13 s. d. l. s. d. l. 11 7 1 
 And three month's interest on Reduced—viz.,from the 5th of April to the 5th of July on 25 l. 0 3 9 
 Add a discount for prompt payment of the 90 l. 1 19 9 =13 10 7 
 £86 9 5 After payment of the deposits, leaving in money, as the price of every l00 l  1. s.  d. l. s. d. 2d. Which appears by the following statement of the amount of stock, and the price of such stock, given for every 100 l. 
 
 For 75 l. l. s. d. £64 17 0¾ 
 For 25 l. l. s. d. 21 16 1¼ 
 For 13s.7d. of Long Annuity, at 16 l. s. d. l. 11 7 1 
 And discount for prompt payment 1 19 9 
 £100 0 0 3d. That the following charges on the Consolidated Fund have been incurred for the said loan of 15 millions of money, as will appear on the books of the Bank of England, viz:— 
 
 £ 
 For 11,250,000 l. 337,500 
 For 3,750,000 l. 112,500 
 Making a perpetual charge of 450,000 
 And 101,875 l. 101,875 yearly. 4th. That if the whole of the loan had been raised in one stock, and that stock had been Three per Cent. Consols, at the price above stated, of 86 l. s.  d., l., l. s. 5th. That if the whole had been raised in Reduced Three per Cents, at the price of 87 l. s. d. s. l., l. l., 6th. That if the whole loan had been contracted in Long Annuities, payable from the 5th of April, 1835, and terminating in January, 1860, the annuity during that period would have been 897,308 l. 7th. That if the loan of 15,000,000 l. 1383 l. l  l. s. d. l. l., l. s. l. s  d. l  s. d. 8th. That the capital stock, created by the present loan, of 15,000,000 l. l., l., l. 9th. That if the loan had been contracted in the New Three-and-a-half per Cent. stock, at the price of 97 l  
 
 £ s d 
 To borrow in a Three-and-a-half per cent, stock at the price of 97 l., l. s. d., 3 13 8 
 The present Loan is contracted for at the rate of interest of 3 9 5 
 Showing a greater rate of interest of 0 4 3 paid on the 3½ per Cent. Loan, which difference of 4 s. d. s. d. 1. s.; s. 
 
 The rate of interest at which the present loan is contracted for is £3 9 5 
 The rate of interest on a 3½ per cent. Stock, reduced to a 3 per cent Stock, is, at the end of 15 years, £3 0 0 
 Add the perpetual annuity arising from the loss of 4 l. s., s. d. 0 2 5½ 
 3 2 5½ 
 Showing a difference of £0 6 11½ per cent, payable, for ever alter, on the whole 15,000,000 l., 10th. That the difference of 6 s. d. l. l. s.; l. s. 1384 11th. That, besides the above loss to the public of 1,038,341 l. s. l. 12th. From these facts it appears, that if the Chancellor of the Exchequer had raised the 15,000,000 l. l., l. s. d. l. l. s. d. l. s. d.
 Mr. Hume  could assure his right hon. Friend they were his own, that he wrote them with his own hand, but that the calculations were made by another person.
 Mr. Hume  denid altogether the statement of the hon. Member for Lancaster, respecting the alleged communication of his plan to various persons in the city, in the course of the last month; so far from there being the least foundation for any such statement, he could positively declare, that until two days after he had given notice, he never mentioned the subject in any quarter. The hon. Member defended the accuracy of his own calculations, and contended that the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had met his statements and reasonings on general, and not on particular grounds, of which he thought he had some reason to complain.
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  said, that but for the explicit statement of the hon. Member for Middlesex, that the Resolutions had been drawn up by himself personally, he should have been inclined to attribute them to some of the professional parties, who, from the result, were naturally disappointed in the circumstances attending this loan. All he could say was, when he submitted the printed Resolutions to some gentlemen in the city, they stated at once that they knew of their existence, and the object of them, at least a month ago. The Resolutions themselves were full of the most egregious blunders, assuming a price (97 l.
 Mr. Ewart  said, that he should ever support any motion for placing the produce of the East and West Indies on an equal footing, and he would say, that it was disgraceful to that House to have these duties so long without equalisation. The importation of sugar from the West Indies was immense, while the total amount which was imported from the East Indies was about 77,000 cwt., although in the latter country it was the spontaneous produce of he soil, only wanting capital and skill to render it most productive. The quantity of coffee imported from the West Indies was 22 millions of lbs., while that from the East Indies was only one and a half millions. He had often urged the propriety of equalising the duties upon sugar and the articles of agricultural produce imported from those countries, and the facts he had stated were corroborative of the necessity of that measure. He had often called the attention of that House to the article of pepper, In the year 1825 the duty had been reduced from half-a-crown to one shilling per lb.,and the consumption immediately rose from 900,000lbs. to 1,500,0001bs. Now he contended that a duty of 1 s. d.
 The Attorney-General  presented a Petition from Galway in favour of the Imprisonment for Debt Bill. He would not, though he might, take that opportunity to enter into the merits of that measure, and he would refrain for the present from replying to the very unfair attacks that had been made upon that Bill elsewhere. There were
 1377
 Sir John Rae Reid  said he had listened with the greatest attention to every thing which had been stated by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and he must say, that connected as he had been with different transactions of this nature, he never in his life heard a clearer statement, or one which would prove more satisfactory to the public. The right hon. Gentleman had completely and entirely answered the extraordinary and most delusive calculations and predictions of the hon. Member for Middlesex. With respect to the loan itself, speaking his own convictions, and knowing, as he did, the sentiments of those who well understood the subject in the city, he was bound to declare that it was an excellent bargain for the public; and he did hope that the exposure of his absurdities on the present occasion, administered by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, would render the hon. Member for Middlesex more cautious and accurate in his calculations for the future.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was well aware that his hon. Friend would not charge him with knowingly proposing a delusive measure of relief. He calculated that the relief he proposed to give would amount to a reduction of one-third of the entire duty. Now, when the smallness of the surplus in his hands this year was considered, he thought the petitioners had no right to complain when half of the surplus at his disposal was appropriated to their relief. He had been attacked out of doors for giving them even this relief, and the Government had been charged with giving encouragement to the building of gin palaces. Now, the fact was, that the relief afforded would be confined principally to the small dealers in beer, with whom that article was the staple of their trade, and with whom the sale of spirits was merely subsidiary to that trade. It was to that class that he wished to give relief. The other class he did not think entitled to it. If he should be in office at the commencement of the next Session, he would lay on the Table a return of the amount of relief afforded, and he was sure that in accordance with his anticipation it would reach 40,000 l. l.
 Mr. Scholfield  presented a Petition from certain members of the council of the Birmingham Political Union. The petitioners expressed their approval of the original Municipal Bill, and their disapproval of the Amendments made in it by the Lords, and they called on the House to reject the measure in the shape given to it by the Lords. He thought that the country was safe in the hands of the present Ministers. If, however, the present Government should be dissolved, as the Tories threatened, then the Political Union in Birmingham would revive in all its strength, and he should, under such circumstances, consider it his bounden duty to again enrol himself in the ranks of the Union, for the purpose of obtaining for the people their just rights and privileges. The petitioners complained strongly of the qualification Clause of the Corporation Bill, and he quite agreed with them on that point. His own opinion was, that they should not look to the wealthy for patriotism. The petitioners
 1399
 Mr. Blackburne  began by saying, that until the measure of Corporate Reform went up to the House of Lords, the Commission appointed to inquire into Corporations had not been impugned as unlawful, or the members of it charged with gross neglect of duty; much less was it urged that they deserved the most condign punishment for what they had done. When, too, it was stated by noble Lords, that the Report was a tissue of fallacies and falsehoods, and drawn up by persons not determined to inquire into the real state of Corporations, but by those who have been sent to supply evidence to those who had determined on their abolition, he thought it became his duty to state how the Commissioners had been appointed, and on what principles they had acted. First, with respect to instruction. The only instructions he ever received were those conveyed by the Commission itself. That Commission was preceded by the Report of a Committee composed of those who occupied the highest rank in that House—of the present Speaker, the Solicitor-General, and the right hon. Member for Tamworth. And what did that Committee report? Precisely that which the Commission directed the members of it to perform, and which they endeavoured to perform. What did the Com-
 1419 1420 1421
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the concluding observations of the noble Lord rendered it unnecessary for him to advert to the charge that Ministers had cheered the language that had been used in this House, towards the House of Lords. He agreed with the noble Lord that it was wise and proper not only for this House but for the House of Lords, to uphold a co-equal branch of the Legislature; but while he said this he, as a Member of Parliament, would maintain that when any Amendment came down from the Lords to this House he had a right to analyse it, to discuss it with freedom, to point out where he conceived the Lords to be in error, and to suggest that course which it seemed to him most fitting to take. Although his noble Friend had complained of improper language being used towards the House of Lords, yet he had carefully abstained from noticing the general course of debate on the Lords' original Amendments. Let him bear in mind that that debate was conducted in a spirit which induced them to
 1431 Sandon 1432 1433 Sandon
 Mr. Tennyson D'Eynecourt  rose principally for the purpose of saying that though in conjunction with a great majority, of the Liberal Members of that House he highly approved of the course which Ministers had taken with regard to this Bill, yet, in surrendering his own opinions, and in assenting to the Amendments of the Lords (especially that which respected the appointment of the Magistrates,) he wished to be understood, as making that concession under the strongest protest that a Member of that House could make against being tied down by it, to surrender what his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Newark, (Mr. Sergeant Wilde) had justly called, the "sacred right of the people of England:" viz. the privilege of appointing their own Justices to administer the local affairs of their Municipal Jurisdictions. He, his hon. and learned Friend, had justly stated what the ancient law was upon that subject: and though he agreed with him that that ancient law was not always to be adhered to, still he felt right in saying that the ancient basis of the common law had been originally introduced into these Corporations, and that succeeding charters bail almost always adhered to it. When, there-
 1434 1435
 Mr. Wallace  expressed his delight at the course which this night had been taken with respect to this Bill. The Bill was now safe in the custody of this House, and could not be further impaired. He tendered his thanks to the Committee which had recommended a Commission—to the Commissioners who had so ably performed the labours of the inquiry, and to his Majesty's Government for having so wisely and promptly acted upon the Report of those Commissioners.
 Lord Granville Somerset  begged to call the noble Lord's attention to the unions of parishes insisted upon by the Commissioners. A case of great hardship in that way had occurred in Gloucestershire, where a number of agricultural parishes had been united to the town parishes of Gloucester. The Commissioners, in his opinion, assigned no good reason for making the union except that the principle was acted upon by them throughout the country. The greatest inconvenience would arise from the union of two classes of parishes so thoroughly distinct.
 Lord John Russell  had no direct power to control the proceedings of the Commissioners in that respect, but he would cause an inquiry to be made into the matter, and he would ask the Commissioners for the grounds of their proceeding. That was all he could do.
 Lord John Russell  did not find any fault with the hon. Gentleman for bringing forward this Petition, as the Session was so near its end; but not having had any notice on the subject, he (Lord J. Russell) had not had an opportunity of communicating with the Commissioners with regard to those orders they were stated to have issued. He should certainly communicate with them on the matter. With regard to the appointment of medical men, the subject had been under his consideration, and he had sent to inquire respecting it to the Poor Law Commissioners. They stated to him that they took particular care to supply a sufficient number of medical men for attendance on the poor. He in reply, begged them to pay particular attention to that point, as nothing would be more calculated to conciliate the good feeling of the people in regard to the operation of the Bill than a sufficient supply of medical aid for their sick.
 Lord John Russell  then rose to direct the attention of the House to the amendments of the Lords, and spoke as follows:—I wish I could preface what I am about to move by saying, that with scarcely an exception, the House of Lords has agreed to the amendments proposed by the House; because I think that this House did treat the amendments of the House of Lords in a spirit of conciliation, which I should say justly entitled us to expect that the principal amendments made by the Commons to the amendments of the Lords would have been agreed to. I know at least that there were several points upon which many Members of this House were reluctant to make any concession; and foregoing as they did for the sake of conciliation, and for the sake of terminating this question, some of those principles which it had been thought necessary to introduce into the original Bill, ought to have tended more to produce a good understanding between both Houses. If, instead of agreeing to certain portions of our amendments, and expressing a wish that a good correspondence should be maintained, the Lords had agreed to the whole of our amendments, and accepted at once, as a concession to their independent authority, and to the welfare of the country, the large concessions which it pleased this House to make upon my motion, the object of good correspondence would, I think, have been more effectually attained. At the same time I have to state that the alterations in the Bill to which I declared that I had an insuperable objection, have been abandoned by the House of Lords. I considered it an insuperable objection to the Bill, as altered by the House of Lords, that it made a Corporation a mixed body—one portion of the governing body having rights conferred by the Bill—the large rights of rated householders—and another portion deriving wholly from self-election, and founded upon the ancient constitution of the borough. I stated that I thought it impossible that any raw machinery could work well with such elements of discord connected with it, and the right hon. Member for Tamworth then present added, what
 1403 1404 l. l. 1405 1406 1407 1408 1409 1410 1411 1412 1413
 Lord John Russell  agreed with the hon. Gentleman in the opinion that this Bill should be carried into effect gradually. He had certainly stated that as his opinion to the Poor Law Commissioners, and he thought that their conduct proved that they were fully sensible of the necessity of acting in such a manner. Their Reports were forwarded to him from time to time, and he should certainly particularly attend to what orders they made.
 Major Beauclerk  presented a Petition from Yapton in Sussex against the New Poor Law, and especially complaining of the part of it relating to workhouses, and the separation of men from their wives. The hon. Member said, that he wished to ask the noble Lord opposite if he was aware that orders had been issued by the Poor Law Commissioners to stop all out-door relief in the present season? Such orders had been sent down to Sussex three days ago, to a place where he (Major Beauclerk) was stopping at the time. He dined in that neighbourhood on Sunday last with a clergyman, and met on that occasion a large body of magistrates. They were all guardians of the poor and all friends of the New Law, but they were all against enforcing such orders at this season of the year. Their universal opinion was, that the enforcement of such orders would spread misery and want in the agricultural districts, and that the old, the sick, and the infirm, who had not anticipated such a measure,
 1400
 Major Beauclerk  said, that the mutilations of this Bill, as well as the rejection by the House of Lords of other measures which had been passed by this House as necessary for the public benefit and welfare, were evident proofs of the necessity of some remedy for the evils of an irresponsible body such as the other House. He thought the House of Commons had upon the present occasion acted a most puerile part. This House had attacked the House of Lords in all manners and shapes during the discussions on this measure, and though he believed that House had in the adoption of these Amendments acted as conscientiously as this House had done in carrying the original measure, yet it should not be forgotten the Lords had entertained and carried out notions and opinions contrary to the views and wishes of the great body of the people of this country. Formerly this House was clearly under the command of the other House of Parliament, but now things were changed, and sooner or later the Question as to the powers of the other House must be settled. With these observations he should content himself with protesting against the Lords' Amendments, especially as related to the qualification and the division into wards, and at the same time expressing a sincere hope, that the Bill in its present shape would effect all the good which its supporters now anticipated from it.
 Major Beauclerk  said, that a friend of his had informed him that in a place in Surrey the men had been separated from their wives in the workhouse, and their children had been actually sent a distance of six miles to another place. These proceedings might be only temporary, arising from the want of workhouse accommodation, but they excited bitter feelings amongst the poor, and they should, if possible, be avoided.
 Colonel Perceval  was anxious to offer a few observations before the Report was ordered to be printed. He agreed with the hon. Member in hoping that the order of the Commander-in-Chief would have the effect of preventing the continuance of Orange Lodges in the army. It was the opinion of the noble Lord at the head of the army that the existence of such Lodges was prejudicial to the service. He bowed to that opinion. But he did not agree with the hon. Member in thinking that merely being an Orangeman disqualified a person from holding office under the Crown. He had the honour of being a member of the Orange Institution, and he denied that that society was bound together by secret oaths or signs; for all the signs and tokens had been made known to the country through the Committee of that House. The Orangemen denied that there were any secrets in these societies; they were merely a body of loyal subjects
 1441
 Colonel Sibthorp  could not avoid that opportunity of tendering to the House of Lords his most grateful thanks for the manly part they had acted in respect to this Bill. He thanked God that there was a branch of the Legislature which was ready to act a bold, manly, straightforward, and fearless part.
 Mr. Divett  presented Petitions from Licensed Victuallers in different parts of the country, complaining that the measure of relief proposed for them by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as regarded the reduction to a certain extent of the Spirit Licence Duty imposed last Session, would be delusive and totally inoperative.
 1398
 Mr. Robinson  was sorry that the noble Lord had not answered the question as to whether the Commissioners had issued orders to put an end to out-door relief. He had been himself friendly to the general principle of the Bill, but there was one Clause in it that he always looked upon as a horrid one—he alluded to the Bastardy Clause. It was a disgraceful enactment. He would caution the noble Lord against taking too favourable a view of the opera-
 1401
 Mr. Aglionby  admitted that the discussion was premature; but rose to observe, that every Member of the Committee was prepared to sanction the language used by the hon. Member for Middlesex. He
 1442
 The Speaker,  after informing them that the House had agreed to the conference, added that the House having considered the reasons which caused the absence of one of their Lordships' usual messengers, deemed those reasons to be sufficient and satisfactory, but requested that they might not be drawn into a precedent. John Russell 1402
 Mr. Freshfield  observed, that some of the Amendments which had been made by the Lords in the Amendment of the Commons were great improvements in the Bill. In one Amendment of the Commons it was stated, that if his Majesty were advised by the Privy Council to approve of the division made by the revising barrister of a borough into wards, then, and then only, should the division appear in  The London Gazette; 1424
 Mr. Hume  could not help expressing his deep regret that the House of Lords had not thought proper to concur with the Amendments made by the House of Commons. That House evinced a desire to
 1414 1415 1416 1417 1418
 Mr. Hume  presented the Report of the Committee appointed to inquire into Orange Lodges. On moving that it be printed, he took the op-
 1440
 Mr. Philip Howard  condemned the course which had been pursued by the other House with respect to this Bill, though he could not concur in the language which had by some hon. Members been applied to the House of Peers. He put his trust in the support of the people—in the consistency of the Commons' House of Parliament, and in the energy of the small, but tried minority, of the House of Peers; and he entertained a fervent hope, that through these means they should be able to arrive at those rational Reforms which were essential for the well-being of the country, without those violent changes in the Constitution that had been openly invoked. He agreed with his hon. Friend, the Member for Maldon, that by the rejection of the Clause which gave to Town-councils the right of nominating Justices of the Peace, the country, and the towns Corporate had experienced a severe loss. He did not concur with many hon. Gentlemen in saying, that the Bill had been brought forward by his Majesty's Government for party purposes; on the contrary, it had been brought forward with a view to open to every man civil honours and civil rights. Those honours would no longer be exclusive; and he hoped ere long to see that hitherto unknown personage in a city—a Whig Mayor. He must also remark, that he could not concur in much that had, in the course of the debates, been thrown out against the freemen. If they were unworthy to retain their rights now, they were equally so on the passing of the Reform Act. If that body had not then been held to deserve to retain their alleged monopoly of power, they would not then sit there, a Reformed House of Commons. The freemen of the city he had the honour to represent, had ever manifested a readiness to place their rights upon the altar of their country. This proved, and was a pledge, that there were amongst the freemen of England honest men who were not dead to the voice of patriotism. He was rejoiced at the heroic course which his Majesty's Government had taken on the present occasion—a course which entitled, and would secure to them the lasting gratitude of their fellow-countrymen.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  supported the Petition, and expressed his regret that Ministers had assented to any one of the Amendments made by the Lords. They should have insisted on the Bill being restored to, its original integrity. He was sure that course only would satisfy the people. He was certain it was the course the patriotic and yet loyal people of Birmingham would approve of. The Tories insanely threatened the people with 50,000 yeomanry. Where were they to be found? If there even was such a yeomanry force in the country, he did not think that the farmers and manufacturers, of whom it consisted, would join in an attack on the rest of the people of England. They were threatened with a Tory Government and a new election. He had no doubt that the result of it would be the addition of 100 members to the present reforming majority. The masses would take an interest in the question now, that they did not last winter. He had said the 50,000 yeomen fit for Tory purposes were not to be found in England. But such a force existed on the banks of the Vistula, and he had no doubt it was to such assistance the Tories looked forward. He cautioned the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) to keep his eyes open, and not to allow a foreign force to deluge England with blood.
 Mr. Lennard  said, it was with regret that he allowed the Amendments of the Lords to pass without opposition—especially that Amendment which deprived the Town-councils of the nomination of the Justices. He considered that provision to be one of the most valuable parts of the Bill which had been sent from the House of Commons. It was valuable, as tending to secure proper Magistrates for the boroughs, and still more valuable as recognizing the right of the people to choose their own Magistrates; a right which, as had been stated by the Member for Newark, was in former times recognized to belong to the people. The prerogative of the Crown in this respect, of which so much had been said, was an encroachment on the rights of the people, and an encroachment which, from what he
 1437
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  said, that he had never felt himself in so difficult and embarrassing a situation as at that moment; conscious, as he was, that a heavier responsibility had never attached to the decision of the House than on that occasion. But with the strong feelings, and with the strong opinions which he entertained as to the course he thought the House ought to pursue, he trusted that he might be allowed briefly to state the conclusion to which he had arrived. In the first place, he could not concur in the eulogium which had been bestowed on the Bill, in its present state, by the noble Lord and by the hon. Member for Middlesex; because he considered it, not as the Bill of his Majesty's Ministers, or as the Bill of that House, but as the Bill of the House of Lords. In what light would a measure like the Bill as it at present stood—this mangled document, this apology for Reform—have been viewed by
 1422 No, no 1423
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  said, that it was admitted upon all hands, that this Bill was one of the greatest boons given to the country since the passing of the Reform Bill, and he for one felt much indebted to the other House of Parliament for the improvements which they had made in the Bill sent up to them from this House, and especially for their preservation of the rights of the freemen.
 Sir Edward Codrington  protested against the mutilations which had been made by the House of Lords in the original measure,
 1438
 Mr. Ward  did not think that this House had lowered itself in the estimation of the people by the manner in which it had, dealt with this Bill. Considering the small amount of concession, it would have been the height of absurdity if the House had rejected so much of good which undoubtedly this Bill still contained, and which he hoped in twenty-four hours to see the law of the land. He believed it would not only be found a good working Bill, but would afford the means of those other Reforms to which all now looked with feelings of the most intense interest. He hoped, next Session, that this House would firmly assert its rights, and show to the other House, that the whole work of legislation was not to be paralyzed by the Upper House, and that the Resolution adopted by this House, by which one Ministry was broken up, should not be treated by the other House as so much waste paper.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  thought the hon. Member for Finsbury did the House of Lords too much honour to call the measure the Lords' Bill. Admitting that much which was good had been taken out of the Bill, so much which was good had been left in it, that he had no hesitation in acquiescing in its adoption. It took away the old corporations, and replaced them by new: it secured elections by household suffrages; it provided that the officers of corporations should be duly elected; and in various ways it did much to improve municipal government. He did not look upon the Bill as a compromise, so much as a measure that must inevitably lead to other great measures of reform. Into the field in which those other measures must be discussed, he wished to go with all the arms he could get. It was a consolation for their having done so little during the Session, that it was wound up on almost the last day by the completion of a measure, the ten-
 1425
 Mr. Sergeant Wilde  fully concurred in the opinions which had been expressed as to the expediency of the House of Commons adopting the Bill in its present state; but at the same time he could not too strongly declare the regret he felt at the alterations which had been made by the Lords. He felt satisfied that the real and sole object of those alterations was, to retain as much as possible of the old system of corruption under the new state of things that would be created by the Bill, and he firmly believed that their Lordships, in making the alterations, never intended or expected that the Bill would be received and passed by the Commons. He was convinced, indeed, that the highest gratification that could be afforded to the Lords would be, for the House of Commons to reject the Bill as it then stood. That however was, in his opinion, the last course that the House ought to pursue, because, although the Bill, in its mutilated state did not give all that could be desired, still it must be remembered that the effect of it, even as it then stood, would be to establish throughout the kingdom legal bodies, through which the public opinion might be made legitimate, to bear directly upon both branches of the Legislature. The hon. and learned Gentleman went into a detail of the circumstances under which the Bill had been introduced into Parliament, and then drew a comparison between the manner in which it had been received, discussed, and considered in the two Houses. Alluding to the speeches of the counsel heard at the Bar of the House of Lords, he observed, that no two speeches that he had ever heard fall from the lips of men had occasioned him so much surprise and astonishment. They exhibited not only a total ignorance, or total forgetfulness of the contents of the voluminous reports which had been printed upon the subject, but they abounded in statements relating to constitutional law so utterly groundless, so completely ill-timed, so grossly at variance with all that was known and understood upon the subject, that he would venture to say, no lawyer's clerk who had been six months in an office, would have disgraced himself by uttering them.
 Mr. Sergeant Wilde  begged to assure the noble Lord and the House, that it was not his intention in any degree to offer any disrespect to the other House of Parliament. In the observations he was making when the noble Lord interrupted him, he was merely discussing the difference of the mode in which the Bill had been treated in the two Houses. The lowest tribunal in the empire would be degraded by listening one moment to the evidence which had been produced at the Bar of the other House, yet there it was not only received, but cheered to the very echo, and by way of completing the solemn mockery, was gravely declared by their Lordships to be convincing. He had already stated the regret he felt at the alterations which the Lords persisted in making in the Bill—they were important, but they were not fatal; they left in full and unimpaired vigour the great principle upon which the Bill proceeded, and from which, as time and popular intelligence advanced, many benefits and many blessings must necessarily spring. Still he believed that the reason why a stronger and more general expression of feeling had not taken place with respect to the Lords' Amendments was, because that the full effect of them was not yet sufficiently understood. The effect of the rating qualification in the town of Newark would be to exclude every alderman except one—even the mayor would not escape. In conclusion, the hon. and learned Gentleman observed, that the country, looking at the course which had been taken in the two Houses of Parliament, the manner in which the Bill had been considered in that House, the principle upon which it had been introduced, and the manner in which the Lords' Amendments had been received, would have good cause to perceive that the reformed House of Commons was a safe House of Commons, and that if it had not achieved all that could be desired, it was only because the people had not given them a stronger force.
 Sir William Molesworth  felt greatly grieved at the course which the House appeared about to take. He considered they had gone too far in the path of compromise and concession: and in their efforts to conciliate the foolish antipathies of that Assembly, which by its late conduct had shown itself to be utterly unacquainted with the wishes of the nation, after having so long assented, and assented in vain, to meet their wishes, they found themselves again called upon to compromise and recede still farther, and he for one must protest against it, as a course in which he took no share whatever. Of what use was the House of Lords? He rejoiced that their conduct afforded the nation an easy and simple reply to that question: that their conduct was politically evil. He felt gratified that such a consideration would be almost universally diffused, for how plainly soever it was proved that it was impossible that two
 1436
 Viscount Ebrington  congratulated the House on the disposition which it showed to let the Bill pass, however much they might quarrel with it on certain points. He was also glad that there was to be no divi-
 1427 1428 1429
 Viscount Sandon  adverted to the observation of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Blackhurne) respecting the very strong language made use of in the House of Lords against the Commissioners., and perfectly agreed with that hon. and learned Gentleman that it would have been more discreet if their Lordships had refrained from the use of such language; but at the same time the House of Commons was much more reprehensible for allowing some of its Members to use language respecting the House of Lords of a much stronger nature, which, so far from being checked by the House, was cheered even by some of his Majesty's Ministers. [Sir  John Hobhouse 1430
 Lord Sandon  rose to order. He appealed to the House whether it was desirable that what had taken place elsewhere, previous to the consideration of the details of the measure, should now be made a matter of
 1426
 Mr. Waldey , as a member of the Committee, begged to state a fact to the House. On the last day that the Committee met,
 1454
 The Yeoman Usher  of the Black Rod an-
 1456
 Lord Dudley Stuart  did not think that any evidence could be brought forward to prove that General Darling had acted improperly in this case and that of Sudds, because, to establish such a fact, it would be necessary to show that General Darling was aware of the illness of those men at the time he ordered them to be put in irons. Now, the evidence given before the Committee went to prove, that General Darling was not aware of the illness of these men at the time. He did not think that Thompson could produce anything to rebut that evidence. He could certainly produce evidence to show what he had suffered, a the nature of the irons in which he had been put. Those irons had been before the Committee, and they did not appear to them cruelly heavy, or such as would inflict torture. As a member of the Committee, perhaps he would be allowed to say a few words with regard to that unfortunate officer Captain Robison. He thought it would be impossible to have heard that gentleman give his evidence in support of his case without feeling the deepest compassion for him. He believed that such feelings were entertained by every member of the Committee, and that they all agreed with him (Lord Dudley Stuart) in the opinion that the conduct of Captain Robison before them was exceedingly fair and candid. Under these circumstances, he trusted that his Majesty's Government would take the first opportunity to give some employment to this unfortunate officer. He believed, indeed, that the Secretary for the Colonial Department had intimated his intention to do so at the first opportunity. Captain Robison had served many years, and he was now reduced to complete ruin. With regard to what had fallen from his hon. Friend as to the resolution that no further evidence had been tendered to the Committee, he would only say that when the gentleman who had undertaken the case was called in, he stated that he had no further evidence to offer. The Committee, therefore, were justified in coming to that resolution. As to the closing of their doors, no member of the Committee was more opposed to that proceeding than he was.
 Mr. Shaw  begged to call the hon. Member to order. He thought it very inconvenient and improper to be going into the discussion of such facts in the absence of the majority of the members of the Committtee.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that the question, as it appeared to him was, whether the Report of the Committee had not been informal. It appeared that the Question was put and carried, that the Report be agreed to, which Report gave General Darling the benefit of a full acquittal, as far as the investigation of the Committee had gone. It was stated, that after that several of the Members of the Committee went away, under the impression that nothing further would would be done; yet subsequently the remaining Members of the Committee came to the resolution complained of. That was, as he took it, the objection to that part of
 1455
 Mr. Freshfield , as a member of the Committee, would state that the Committee, with only three dissentient voices, had agreed to the Report acquitting General Darling. Then came the question, what was the Committee to report as to the other cases? Surely it could not be expected that they would wait for those Gentlemen who had gone away to attend to other business. It was necessary to decide that question, as the Chairman declared that he would not dissolve the Committee until the whole subject was disposed of. The Gentleman in charge of the case stated, that he had no more evidence to produce. Under these circumstances, the Committee were fully justified in coming to the resolution they had adopted. It was rather hard that at this period of the Session, an attempt should be made to create an impression that the acquittal of General Darling had not been full and complete. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin, to his honour, had stated in the Committee, that as they could not affix guilt on General Darling, they were bound to give him a full and complete acquittal. Though this petitioner might be disappointed at not being able to fix guilt on General Darling, he was sure that no one amongst the public would participate in that feeling.
 Dr. Bowring  presented a Petition from Patrick Thompson, the soldier on whom General Darling had inflicted a severe punishment, and respecting whose case, as well as the cases of others, that House had instituted an inquiry. The petitioner stated, that having been summoned from Ireland to attend the Committee, he arrived here on yesterday week at half-past eight o'clock in the morning, but that on coming down to the House he found that the Committee had made its Report without going into his case, or examining evidence to prove the cruelty with which he had been treated. He stated, that if he had been heard by the Committee, or by the House, he should have been able
 1452 1453
